[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3668 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3668

  To codify in law and expand certain off-highway vehicle recreation 
 areas in the State of California, to designate as wilderness certain 
 public lands in the State of California administered by the Bureau of 
 Land Management, to expand the Death Valley National Park Wilderness 
 and the San Gorgonio Wilderness in San Bernardino National Forest, to 
 ensure the conservation and necessary management of wildlife in these 
  wilderness areas, to establish the Mojave Trails Special Management 
               Area in the State, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            October 1, 2015

 Mr. Cook (for himself and Mr. Knight) introduced the following bill; 
        which was referred to the Committee on Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To codify in law and expand certain off-highway vehicle recreation 
 areas in the State of California, to designate as wilderness certain 
 public lands in the State of California administered by the Bureau of 
 Land Management, to expand the Death Valley National Park Wilderness 
 and the San Gorgonio Wilderness in San Bernardino National Forest, to 
 ensure the conservation and necessary management of wildlife in these 
  wilderness areas, to establish the Mojave Trails Special Management 
               Area in the State, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``California 
Minerals, Off-Road Recreation, and Conservation Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
             TITLE I--OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS

Sec. 101. Purpose.
Sec. 102. Statutory designation and expansion of off-highway vehicle 
                            recreation areas, San Bernardino County, 
                            California.
Sec. 103. Administration.
Sec. 104. Southern California Edison Company energy transport 
                            facilities and rights-of-way.
Sec. 105. Pacific Gas and Electric Company utility facilities and 
                            rights-of-way.
                          TITLE II--WILDERNESS

Sec. 201. Purpose.
Sec. 202. Designation or expansion of wilderness areas in the State of 
                            California.
Sec. 203. Management.
Sec. 204. Release of wilderness study areas.
Sec. 205. Treatment of cherry-stemmed roads.
               TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADDITIONS

Sec. 301. Death Valley National Park boundary revision.
Sec. 302. Joshua Tree National Park boundary revision, visitor center, 
                            and sale of Federal land.
Sec. 303. Mojave National Preserve boundary revision and related 
                            provisions.
     TITLE IV--DESIGNATION OF WILD, SCENIC, AND RECREATIONAL RIVERS

Sec. 401. Designation of wild, scenic, and recreational rivers.
              TITLE V--BLACK LAVA BUTTE AND FLAT TOP MESA

Sec. 501. Black Lava Butte and Flat Top Mesa Area of Critical 
                            Environmental Concern.
            TITLE VI--MOJAVE TRAILS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA

Sec. 601. Definitions.
Sec. 602. Mojave trails special management area.
Sec. 603. Management.
Sec. 604. Acquisition of land.
Sec. 605. Renewable energy right-of-way applications.
Sec. 606. Expedited environmental review process to facilitate route 66 
                            bridge repair and replacement within 
                            management area.
               TITLE VII--SAND TO SNOW NATIONAL MONUMENT

Sec. 701. Definitions.
Sec. 702. Sand to Snow National Monument.
Sec. 703. Management of Monument.
Sec. 704. Uses of Monument.
Sec. 705. Acquisition of land.
Sec. 706. Advisory committee.
Sec. 707. Wireless communications facilities.
   TITLE VIII--LAND CONVEYANCES, WITHDRAWALS, AND RELATED PROVISIONS

Sec. 801. Release of Federal reversionary land interests.
Sec. 802. California State School land.
Sec. 803. Juniper Flats.
Sec. 804. Land exchange, San Gorgonio Wilderness, California Desert 
                            Conservation Area, Bureau of Land 
                            Management, and San Bernardino National 
                            Forest, California.
Sec. 805. Conveyance for Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
                            Area.
Sec. 806. Conveyance to City of Twentynine Palms, California.
Sec. 807. Conversion of valid, existing rights.
                   TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 901. Tribal uses and interests.
Sec. 902. Military activities.
Sec. 903. Deed restrictions on donated land within the California 
                            Desert Conservation Area.
Sec. 904. Wildlife management.
Sec. 905. Limitation on extension or establishment of national 
                            monuments.
Sec. 906. Categorical exclusion for eastern Inyo County broadband 
                            corridor.

             TITLE I--OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION AREAS

SEC. 101. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is to designate in law certain off-
highway vehicle recreation areas currently designated administratively 
by the Secretary of the Interior as National Off-Highway Vehicle 
Recreation Areas in order to preserve and enhance the recreational 
opportunities within the California Desert Conservation Area, including 
opportunities for off-highway vehicle recreation, while conserving the 
wildlife and other natural resources of the Conservation Area.

SEC. 102. STATUTORY DESIGNATION AND EXPANSION OF OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE 
              RECREATION AREAS, SAN BERNARDINO COUNTY, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Statutory Designation.--In accordance with the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and resource 
management plans developed under this title, and subject to valid 
rights, the following public lands within the California Desert 
Conservation Area in San Bernardino County, California, are designated 
as National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas:
            (1) Dumont dunes off-highway vehicle recreation area.--
        Certain public lands comprising approximately 7,630 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Dumont Dunes Proposed 
        National OHV Recreation Area'' and dated June 29, 2015, which 
        corresponds to the boundaries of an administratively designated 
        off-highway vehicle recreation area and shall be known as the 
        Dumont Dunes National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.
            (2) El mirage off-highway vehicle recreation area.--Certain 
        public lands comprising approximately 15,610 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``El Mirage Proposed 
        National OHV Recreation Area'' and dated January 8, 2015, which 
        expands the boundaries of an administratively designated off-
        highway vehicle recreation area and shall be known as the El 
        Mirage National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.
            (3) Rasor off-highway vehicle recreation area.--Certain 
        public lands comprising approximately 23,910 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Rasor Proposed 
        National OHV Recreation Area'' and dated February 15, 2015, 
        which corresponds to the boundaries of an administratively 
        designated off-highway vehicle recreation area and shall be 
        known as the Rasor National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Area.
            (4) Spangler hills off-highway vehicle recreation area.--
        Certain public lands comprising approximately 93,610 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Spangler Hills 
        Proposed National OHV Recreation Area'' and dated May 27, 2015, 
        which expands the boundaries of an administratively designated 
        off-highway vehicle recreation area and shall be known as the 
        Spangler Hills National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.
            (5) Stoddard valley off-highway vehicle recreation area.--
        Certain public lands comprising approximately 40,110 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Stoddard Valley 
        Proposed National OHV Recreation Area'' and dated February 18, 
        2015, which corresponds to the boundaries of an 
        administratively designated off-highway vehicle recreation area 
        and shall be known as the Stoddard Valley National Off-Highway 
        Vehicle Recreation Area.
    (b) Redesignation and Expansion of Johnson Valley Off-Highway 
Vehicle Recreation Area.--
            (1) In general.--The Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle 
        Recreation Area designated by section 2945 of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B 
        of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1038)--
                    (A) is hereby redesignated as the Johnson Valley 
                National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area; and
                    (B) is expanded to include all of the land depicted 
                as the ``Proposed National Off Highway Vehicle 
                Recreation Area Additions'' on the map entitled 
                ``Johnson Valley Proposed National OHV Recreation 
                Area'' and dated April 23, 2015.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Designation.--Section 2945 of the Military 
                Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
                (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1038) is 
                amended--
                            (i) in the section heading, by inserting 
                        ``national'' after ``valley'';
                            (ii) in subsection (a), by inserting 
                        ``National'' after ``Valley'' in the matter 
                        preceding paragraph (1); and
                            (iii) in subsections (b), (c), and (d), by 
                        inserting ``National'' after ``Valley'' each 
                        place it appears.
                    (B) Cross reference.--Section 2942(c)(3) of the 
                Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1037) 
                is amended by inserting ``National'' after ``Valley''.
            (3) Relation to authorized navy use.--The redesignation of 
        the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area as the 
        Johnson Valley National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area 
        does not alter or interfere with the rights and obligations of 
        the Navy regarding the use of portions of the Recreation Area 
        as provided in subtitle C of title XXIX of the Military 
        Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B 
        of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1034).
            (4) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, 
        document, record, map, or other paper of the United States to 
        the Johnson Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area is 
        deemed to be a reference to the Johnson Valley National Off-
        Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.
    (c) Maps and Descriptions.--
            (1) Preparation and submission.--As soon as practicable 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the 
        Interior shall file a map and legal description of the National 
        Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas designated by subsection 
        (a) and (b) with--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (2) Legal effect.--The map and legal descriptions of the 
        National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct 
        errors in the map and legal descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be filed and made available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of 
        Land Management.

SEC. 103. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Applicable Laws.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
administer the National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas designated 
by subsections (a) and (b) of section 102 in accordance with--
            (1) this title;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) any other applicable laws (including regulations).
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable, but not later than 
        three years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall--
                    (A) amend existing resource management plans 
                applicable to the land designated as a National Off-
                Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas under subsection (a) 
                or (b) of section 102; or
                    (B) develop new management plans for such National 
                Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas.
            (2) Requirements.--All new or amended plans under paragraph 
        (1) shall be designed to preserve and enhance safe off-highway 
        vehicle and other recreational opportunities within the 
        applicable National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area 
        consistent with--
                    (A) the purpose of this title; and
                    (B) any applicable laws (including regulations).
            (3) Interim plans.--Pending completion of a new management 
        plan under subsection (b)(2), the existing resource management 
        plans shall govern the use of the applicable National Off-
        Highway Vehicle Recreation Area.
    (c) Use of the Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        continue to authorize, maintain, and enhance the recreational 
        uses of the National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas 
        designated by subsections (a) and (b) of section 102, including 
        off-highway recreation, hiking, camping, hunting, mountain 
        biking, sightseeing, rockhounding, and horseback riding, as 
        long as the recreational use is consistent with this title and 
        any other applicable law.
            (2) Off-highway vehicle and off-highway recreation.--To the 
        extent consistent with applicable Federal law (including 
        regulations) and this title, any authorized recreation 
        activities and use designations in effect on the date of 
        enactment of this Act and applicable to the National Off-
        Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas designated by subsections (a) 
        and (b) of section 102 shall continue, including casual off-
        highway vehicular use, racing, competitive events, rock 
        crawling, training, and other forms of off-highway recreation.
            (3) Wildlife guzzlers.--Wildlife guzzlers shall be allowed 
        in the National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas designated 
        by subsections (a) and (b) of section 102 in accordance with--
                    (A) applicable Bureau of Land Management 
                guidelines; and
                    (B) the laws of the State of California.
            (4) Prohibited uses.--
                    (A) In general.--Commercial development (including 
                development of energy facilities, but excluding energy 
                transport facilities, rights-of-way, and related 
                telecommunication facilities) shall be prohibited in 
                the National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Areas 
                designated by subsections (a) and (b) of section 102 if 
                the Secretary determines that the development is 
                incompatible with the purpose of this title.
                    (B) Exception for temporary permitted vendors.--
                Subparagraph (A) does not prohibit a commercial vendor 
                from establishing, pursuant to a temporary permit, a 
                site in the National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
                Areas for the purpose of providing accessories and 
                other support for off-highway vehicles and vehicles 
                used for accessing the area.

SEC. 104. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA EDISON COMPANY ENERGY TRANSPORT 
              FACILITIES AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) Effect of Title.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) terminates--
                    (A) any right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted 
                to Southern California Edison Company (including any 
                predecessor or successor in interest or assign) as of 
                the date of the enactment of this Act that is located 
                on land included in the National Off-Highway Vehicle 
                Recreation Areas designated by subsections (a) and (b) 
                of section 102; or
                    (B) the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, 
                repair, relocation within such a right-of-way, 
                replacement, or other authorized energy transport 
                facility activities (including the use of any 
                mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and other aerial 
                device) within such a right-of-way;
            (2) affects the application, siting, route selection, 
        right-of-way acquisition, or construction of the Coolwater-Lugo 
        transmission project, as may be approved by the California 
        Public Utilities Commission and the Bureau of Land Management; 
        or
            (3) prohibits the upgrading or replacement of any Southern 
        California Edison Company--
                    (A) energy transport facility, including such an 
                energy transport facility known on the date of 
                enactment of this Act as--
                            (i) Gale-PS 512, Inyokern-McGen-Searles, 
                        Downs-Inyokern-McGen-Searles, Lugo-Mohave, 
                        Eldorado-Lugo, Lugo-Pisgah No. 1, and Lugo-
                        Pisgah No. 2 transmission lines or rights-of-
                        way; or
                            (ii) Patio, Jack Ranch, and Kenworth 
                        distribution circuits or rights-of-way; or
                    (B) energy transport facility in a right-of-way 
                issued, granted, or permitted by the Secretary of the 
                Interior adjacent to the energy transport facility 
                referred to in subparagraph (A).
    (b) Plans for Access.--The Secretary of the Interior, in 
consultation with the Southern California Edison Company, shall publish 
plans for regular and emergency access by the Southern California 
Edison Company to the rights-of-way of the Company by the date that is 
one year after the later of--
            (1) the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) the date of issuance of a new energy transport facility 
        right-of-way within the National Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
        Areas designated by subsections (a) and (b) of section 102.

SEC. 105. PACIFIC GAS AND ELECTRIC COMPANY UTILITY FACILITIES AND 
              RIGHTS-OF-WAY.

    (a) Effect of Title.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) terminates--
                    (A) any right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted 
                to Pacific Gas and Electric Company (including any 
                predecessor or successor in interest or assign) as of 
                the date of the enactment of this Act that is located 
                on land included in the Spangler Hills National Off-
                Highway Vehicle Recreation Area; or
                    (B) the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, 
                repair, relocation within such a right-of-way, 
                replacement, or other authorized activities (including 
                the use of any mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and 
                other aerial device) within such a right-of-way; or
            (2) prohibits the upgrading or replacement of any--
                    (A) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and 
                Electric Company, including those utility facilities 
                known on the date of enactment of this Act as--
                            (i) Gas Transmission Line 311 or rights-of-
                        way; or
                            (ii) Gas Transmission Line 372 or rights-
                        of-way; or
                    (B) utility facilities of the Pacific Gas and 
                Electric Company in rights-of-way issued, granted, or 
                permitted by the Secretary of the Interior adjacent to 
                a utility facility referred to in subparagraph (A).
    (b) Plans for Access.--Not later than one year after the date of 
enactment of this Act or the issuance of a new utility facility right-
of-way within the Spangler Hills National Off-Highway Vehicle 
Recreation Area, whichever is later, the Secretary of the Interior, in 
consultation with the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, shall publish 
plans for regular and emergency access by the Pacific Gas and Electric 
Company to the rights-of-way of the Pacific Gas and Electric Company.

                          TITLE II--WILDERNESS

SEC. 201. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this title is--
            (1) to designate or expand in law certain wilderness areas 
        in the California Desert Conservation Area; and
            (2) to ensure the conservation and necessary management of 
        wildlife and other natural resources in the Conservation Area.

SEC. 202. DESIGNATION OR EXPANSION OF WILDERNESS AREAS IN THE STATE OF 
              CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Designation or Expansion of Wilderness in California Desert 
Conservation Area.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
1131 et seq.) and sections 601 and 603 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1781, 1782), the following public 
lands in the State of California are designated as wilderness and 
either included as part of an existing wilderness area or made a new 
component of the National Wilderness Preservation System:
            (1) Avawatz mountains wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management comprising approximately 91,800 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Avawatz Mountains 
        Wilderness Proposed Wilderness'' and dated June 30, 2015, to be 
        known as the Avawatz Mountains Wilderness.
            (2) Golden valley wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management comprising approximately 1,260 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Golden Valley Proposed 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated March 17, 2015, which shall be 
        incorporated in, and shall be considered to be a part of, the 
        Golden Valley Wilderness designated by section 102(23) of the 
        California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 104-433; 
        16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (3) Kingston range wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management comprising approximately 53,320 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Kingston Range 
        Proposed Wilderness Additions'' and dated February 18, 2015, 
        which shall be incorporated in, and shall be considered to be a 
        part of, the Kingston Range Wilderness designated by section 
        102(32) of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (Public 
        Law 104-433; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (4) Soda mountains wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management comprising approximately 79,980 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Soda Mountains 
        Proposed Wilderness'' and dated February 18, 2015, to be known 
        as the Soda Mountains Wilderness.
            (5) Malpais mesa wilderness.--Certain land in the 
        California Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management comprising approximately 14,810 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Malpais Mesa Proposed 
        Wilderness Additions'' and dated September 11, 2015, which 
        shall be incorporated in, and shall be considered to be a part 
        of, the Malpais Mesa Wilderness designated by section 102(35) 
        of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 
        104-433; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note).
            (6) Great falls basin wilderness.--
                    (A) Designation.--Certain land in the California 
                Desert Conservation Area administered by the Bureau of 
                Land Management comprising approximately 7,920 acres, 
                as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Great Falls 
                Basin Proposed Wilderness'' and dated August 5, 2015, 
                to be known as the Great Falls Basin Wilderness.
                    (B) Limitation.--Designation of the wilderness 
                under subparagraph (A) shall not establish a Class I 
                Airshed under the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7401 et 
                seq.).
    (b) Expansion of Death Valley National Park Wilderness.--In 
accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and 
sections 601 and 603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
1976 (43 U.S.C. 1781, 1782), the following land in the State of 
California is designated as wilderness and included as part of an 
existing wilderness area of the National Wilderness Preservation 
System:
            (1) Death valley national park wilderness additions-north 
        eureka valley.--Certain land in the California Desert 
        Conservation Area administered by the Director of the National 
        Park Service, comprising approximately 11,496 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Death Valley National 
        Park Proposed Wilderness Area-North Eureka Valley'', numbered 
        143/100,082D, and dated August 2015, which shall be considered 
        to be a part of the Death Valley National Park Wilderness.
            (2) Death valley national park wilderness additions-ibex.--
        Certain land in the California Desert Conservation Area 
        administered by the Director of the National Park Service 
        comprising approximately 23,650 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed 
        Wilderness Area-Ibex'', numbered 143/100,081C, and dated 
        October 7, 2014, which shall be considered to be a part of the 
        Death Valley National Park Wilderness.
            (3) Death valley national park wilderness additions-
        panamint valley.--Certain land in the California Desert 
        Conservation Area administered by the Director of the National 
        Park Service, comprising approximately 4,807 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled ``Death Valley National 
        Park Proposed Wilderness Area-Panamint Valley'', numbered 143/
        100,083C, and dated October 7, 2014, which shall be considered 
        to be a part of the Death Valley National Park Wilderness.
            (4) Death valley national park wilderness additions-warm 
        springs.--Certain land in the California Desert Conservation 
        Area administered by the Director of the National Park Service, 
        comprising approximately 10,485 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed 
        Wilderness Area-Warm Spring Canyon/Galena Canyon''. Numbered 
        143/100,084D, and dated August 2015, which shall be considered 
        to be a part of the Death Valley National Park Wilderness.
            (5) Death valley national park wilderness additions-axe 
        head.--Certain land in the California Desert Conservation Area 
        administered by the Director of the National Park Service, 
        comprising approximately 8,638 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed 
        Wilderness Area-Axe Head'', numbered 143/100,085C, and dated 
        October 7, 2014, which shall be considered to be a part of the 
        Death Valley National Park Wilderness.
            (6) Death valley national park wilderness additions-bowling 
        alley.--Certain land in the California Desert Conservation Area 
        administered by the Director of the National Park Service, 
        comprising approximately 28,923 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Park 
        Expansion and Wilderness'', numbered 143/128,606, and dated May 
        14, 2015, which shall be considered to be a part of the Death 
        Valley National Park Wilderness.
    (c) Expansion of San Gorgonio Wilderness.--
            (1) Designation.--In accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
        U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain land in San Bernardino National 
        Forest in the State of California, comprising approximately 
        5,570 acres, as generally depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Sand to Snow National Monument'' and dated August 4, 
        2015, is designated as wilderness and included as part of the 
        San Gorgonio Wilderness of the National Wilderness Preservation 
        System.
            (2) Fire management and related activities.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture may 
                carry out such activities in the wilderness designated 
                by paragraph (1) as are necessary for the control of 
                fire, insects, and disease, in accordance with section 
                4(d)(1) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) 
                and House Report 98-40 of the 98th Congress.
                    (B) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this subsection 
                limits the provision of any funding for fire or fuel 
                management in the wilderness designated by paragraph 
                (1).
                    (C) Revision and development of local fire 
                management plans.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
                Agriculture shall amend the local fire management plans 
                that apply to the wilderness designated by paragraph 
                (1).
                    (D) Administration.--In accordance with 
                subparagraph (A) and other applicable Federal law, to 
                ensure a timely and efficient response to fire 
                emergencies in the wilderness designated by paragraph 
                (1), the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
                            (i) not later than one year after the date 
                        of the enactment of this Act, establish agency 
                        approval procedures (including appropriate 
                        delegations of authority to the Forest 
                        Supervisor) for responding to fire emergencies 
                        in the wilderness designated by paragraph (1); 
                        and
                            (ii) enter into agreements with appropriate 
                        State or local firefighting agencies relating 
                        to the wilderness.
    (d) Maps; Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior (and, with 
        respect to the wilderness designated by subsection (c), the 
        Secretary of Agriculture) (in this title referred to as the 
        ``Secretary concerned'') shall file a map and legal description 
        of each wilderness area and wilderness addition designated by 
        this section with--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (2) Force of law.--A map and legal description filed under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary concerned may 
        correct errors in the maps and legal descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--Each map and legal description 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be filed and made available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate office of the Secretary 
        concerned.

SEC. 203. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Administration.--Subject to valid existing rights, the land 
designated as wilderness or as a wilderness addition by section 202 
shall be administered by the Secretary concerned in accordance with 
this title and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that 
any reference in that Act to the effective date shall be considered to 
be a reference to the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Cooperative Management Agreement With California Department of 
Fish and Wildlife.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into a 
cooperative management agreement with the California Department of Fish 
and Wildlife for the purposes of managing wilderness areas in the 
California Desert Conservation Area to ensure the conservation and 
necessary management of wildlife and other natural resources in the 
Conservation Area. Such cooperative agreement shall include and ensure 
necessary wildlife water development and maintenance as considered 
necessary by the California Department of Fish and Wildlife.
    (c) Certain Water Development Projects Authorized.--Nothing in this 
title or the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) shall have the 
effect of prohibiting the placement or maintenance of water development 
projects on the land designated as wilderness or as a wilderness 
addition by section 202 for the purpose of the conservation or 
management of wildlife.
    (d) Agency Approval Procedures.--Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall 
establish agency approval procedures for the maintenance of water 
development projects and other wildlife management activities on the 
land designated as wilderness or as a wilderness addition by section 
202.
    (e) No Effect on Adjacent Land.--
            (1) No buffer zones or regulation.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) creates any protective perimeter or buffer zone 
                around land designated as wilderness or as a wilderness 
                addition by section 202; or
                    (B) requires additional regulation of activities on 
                land outside the boundary of the land designated as 
                wilderness or as a wilderness addition by such section.
            (2) Activities outside wilderness areas.--The fact that an 
        activity (including military activities) or use on land outside 
        the boundary of the land designated as wilderness or as a 
        wilderness addition by section 202 can be seen, heard, or 
        detected within the wilderness area shall not preclude or 
        restrict the activity or use outside the boundary of the 
        wilderness area.
    (f) No Effect on Certain Permitting Proceedings.--
            (1) In general.--In any permitting proceeding (including a 
        review under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.)) conducted with respect to a project 
        described in paragraph (2) that is formally initiated through a 
        notice in the Federal Register before December 31, 2013, the 
        consideration of any visual, noise, or other impacts of the 
        project on land designated as wilderness or as a wilderness 
        addition by section 202 shall be conducted based on the status 
        of the land before designation as wilderness.
            (2) Description of projects.--A project referred to in 
        paragraph (1) is a renewable energy project or associated 
        energy transport facility project--
                    (A) for which the Bureau of Land Management has 
                received a right-of-way use application on or before 
                the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) that is located outside the boundary of land 
                designated as wilderness or as a wilderness addition by 
                section 202.
    (g) No Effect on Military Operations.--Nothing in this Act alters 
any authority of the Secretary of Defense to conduct any military 
operations at desert installations, facilities, and ranges of the State 
of California authorized under any other provision of law.
    (h) No Effect on Energy Transport Facilities.--In the case of land 
designated as wilderness or as a wilderness addition by section 202, 
nothing in this title affects any land, interest in land, or customary 
operation, maintenance, repair, or replacement activity carried out on, 
over, or under land or within a right-of-way, including access to such 
right-of-way, granted to, owned by, or controlled by Southern 
California Edison Company, Pacific Gas and Electric Company, or 
Southern California Gas Company pursuant to law or legal right so long 
as the activity is conducted in a manner that minimizes the impact on 
wilderness resources.

SEC. 204. RELEASE OF WILDERNESS STUDY AREAS.

    (a) Finding and Direction.--Congress finds and directs that the 
Bureau of Land Management land within any portion of a wilderness study 
area described in subsection (b) that is not designated as a wilderness 
area or wilderness addition by section 202 or any other Act enacted 
before the date of enactment of this Act--
            (1) has been adequately studied for wilderness character 
        and wilderness designation pursuant to sections 201 and 603 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1711 and 1782); and
            (2) is no longer subject to any requirement pertaining to 
        the management of wilderness, wilderness character, wilderness 
        study areas, or areas of environmental concern.
    (b) Description of Study Areas.--The study areas referred to in 
subsection (a) are the following:
            (1) Cady Mountains Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Kingston Range Wilderness Study Area.
            (3) Avawatz Mountain Wilderness Study Area.
            (4) Soda Mountains Wilderness Study Area.
            (5) Great Falls Basin Wilderness Study Area.
            (6) White Mountains Wilderness Study Area.
            (7) Crater Mountain Wilderness Study Area.
            (8) Symmes Creek Wilderness Study Area.
            (9) Independence Creek Wilderness Study Area.
            (10) Southern Inyo Wilderness Study Area.
            (11) Cerro Gordo Wilderness Study Area.
            (12) Death Valley 17 Wilderness Study Area.
    (c) Release and Subsequent Management.--Any public land described 
in subsection (a) that is not designated as wilderness by this title--
            (1) is no longer subject to section 603(c) of the Federal 
        Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782(c));
            (2) shall be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) land management plans adopted under section 202 
                of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                (43 U.S.C. 1712); and
                    (B) cooperative conservation agreements in 
                existence on the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (3) shall be subject to the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).

SEC. 205. TREATMENT OF CHERRY-STEMMED ROADS.

    (a) Definition of Cherry-Stemmed Road.--In this section, the term 
``cherry-stemmed road'' means a road or trail that is excluded from a 
wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by section 202 by a 
non-wilderness corridor having designated wilderness on both sides, as 
generally depicted on the maps described in such section.
    (b) Prohibition on Closure or Travel Restrictions on Cherry-Stemmed 
Roads.--The Secretary concerned shall not--
            (1) close any cherry-stemmed road that is open to the 
        public as of the date of the enactment of this Act;
            (2) prohibit motorized access on a cherry-stemmed road that 
        is open to the public for motorized access as of the date of 
        the enactment of this Act; or
            (3) prohibit mechanized access on a cherry-stemmed road 
        that is open to the public for mechanized access as of the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Resource Protection or Public Safety Exceptions.--Subsection 
(b) shall not apply to a cherry-stemmed road if the Secretary concerned 
determines that a closure or traffic restriction of the cherry-stemmed 
road is necessary for purposes of significant resource protection or 
public safety.

               TITLE III--NATIONAL PARK SYSTEM ADDITIONS

SEC. 301. DEATH VALLEY NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY REVISION.

    (a) In General.--The boundary of Death Valley National Park is 
adjusted to include--
            (1) the approximately 28,923 acres of Bureau of Land 
        Management land in San Bernardino County, California, abutting 
        the southern end of the Death Valley National Park that lies 
        between Death Valley National Park to the north and Ft. Irwin 
        Military Reservation to the south and which runs approximately 
        34 miles from west to east, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Avawatz Mountains 
        Wilderness with Proposed Park Expansion'', numbered 143/
        128,605, and dated May 14, 2015; and
            (2) the approximately 6,369 acres of Bureau of Land 
        Management land in Inyo County, California, located in the 
        northeast area of Death Valley National Park that is within, 
        and surrounded by, land under the jurisdiction of the Director 
        of the National Park Service, as depicted on the map entitled 
        ``Death Valley National Park Proposed Boundary Addition-
        Crater'', numbered 143/100,079C, and dated October 7, 2014.
    (b) Availability of Map.--The maps described in paragraphs (1) and 
(2) of subsection (a) shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to 
        in this title as the ``Secretary'') shall administer any land 
        added to Death Valley National Park under subsection (a)--
                    (A) as part of Death Valley National Park; and
                    (B) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            (2) Memorandum of understanding with inyo county.--Not 
        later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
        the Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of understanding 
        with Inyo County, California, to permit operationally feasible, 
        ongoing access and use (including, but not limited to, material 
        storage as well as excavation) to gravel pits in existence as 
        of that date along Saline Valley Road within Death Valley 
        National Park for road maintenance and repairs in accordance 
        with applicable laws (including regulations).
    (d) Southern California Edison Company Energy Transport Facilities 
and Rights-of-Way.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section terminates--
                    (A) any right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted 
                to the Southern California Edison Company (including 
                any predecessor or successor in interest or assign) as 
                of the date of the enactment of this Act that is 
                located on land described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
                subsection (a); or
                    (B) the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, 
                repair, relocation within such a right-of-way, 
                replacement, or other authorized energy transport 
                facility activities in such a right-of-way, including, 
                at a minimum, the use of mechanized vehicles, 
                helicopters, or other aerial devices.
            (2) Upgrades and replacements.--Nothing in this section 
        prohibits the upgrading or replacement of--
                    (A) Southern California Edison Company energy 
                transport facilities; or
                    (B) an energy transport facility in rights-of-way 
                issued, granted, or permitted by the Secretary adjacent 
                to Southern California Edison's energy transport 
                facilities within Death Valley National Park.
            (3) Publication of plans.--Not later than one year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act or the date of the issuance 
        of a new energy transport facility right-of-way within Death 
        Valley National Park, whichever is earlier, the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Southern California Edison Company, shall 
        publish plans for regular and emergency access by the Southern 
        California Edison Company to the rights-of-way of the Southern 
        California Edison Company within Death Valley National Park.

SEC. 302. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY REVISION, VISITOR CENTER, 
              AND SALE OF FEDERAL LAND.

    Title IV of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (Public 
Law 103-433) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sections:

``SEC. 408. JOSHUA TREE NATIONAL PARK BOUNDARY REVISION.

    ``(a) In General.--The boundary of the Joshua Tree National Park is 
adjusted to include the 2,879 acres of land managed by Director of the 
Bureau of Land Management that are contiguous at several different 
places to the northern boundaries of Joshua Tree National Park in the 
northwest section of the Park, as depicted on the map entitled `Joshua 
Tree National Park Proposed Boundary Addition', numbered 156/100,077, 
and dated August 2009.
    ``(b) Additional Lands To Be Acquired.--The Secretary may acquire 
the 1,639 acres of land from the Mojave Desert Land Trust that are 
contiguous at several different places to the northern boundaries of 
Joshua Tree National Park in the northwest section of the Park, as 
depicted on the map entitled `Mojave Desert Land Trust National Park 
Service Additions', numbered 156/126,376, and dated September 2014. 
After such lands are acquired by the Secretary, the boundary of the 
Joshua Tree National Park shall be adjusted to include those lands.
    ``(c) Availability of Maps.--The map described in subsection (a) 
and the map depicting the 25 acres described in subsection (d)(2) shall 
be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the National Park Service.
    ``(d) Administration.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer any land 
        added to the Joshua Tree National Park under subsection (a) and 
        the additional land described in paragraph (2)--
                    ``(A) as part of Joshua Tree National Park; and
                    ``(B) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            ``(2) Description of additional land.--The additional land 
        referred to in paragraph (1) is the 25 acres of land--
                    ``(A) depicted on the map entitled `Joshua Tree 
                National Park Boundary Adjustment Map', numbered 156/
                80,049, and dated April 1, 2003;
                    ``(B) added to Joshua Tree National Park by the 
                notice of the Department of the Interior of August 28, 
                2003 (68 Fed. Reg. 51799); and
                    ``(C) more particularly described as lots 26, 27, 
                28, 33, and 34 in sec. 34, T. 1 N., R. 8 E., San 
                Bernardino Meridian.
    ``(e) Southern California Edison Company Energy Transport 
Facilities and Rights-of-Way.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this section terminates--
                    ``(A) any right-of-way issued, granted, or 
                permitted to Southern California Edison Company 
                (including any predecessor or successor in interest or 
                assign) as of the date of the enactment of this Act 
                that is located on land described in subsections (a) 
                and (b); or
                    ``(B) the customary operation, maintenance, 
                upgrade, repair, relocation within such a right-of-way, 
                replacement, or other authorized energy transport 
                facility activities (including the use of any 
                mechanized vehicle, helicopter, and other aerial 
                device) within such a right-of-way.
            ``(2) Upgrades and replacements.--Nothing in this section 
        prohibits the upgrading or replacement of--
                    ``(A) Southern California Edison Company energy 
                transport facilities, including the energy transport 
                facilities referred to as the Jellystone, Burnt 
                Mountain, Whitehorn, Allegra, and Utah distribution 
                circuits rights-of-way; or
                    ``(B) an energy transport facility in rights-of-way 
                issued, granted, or permitted by the Secretary adjacent 
                to Southern California Edison's energy transport 
                facilities within Joshua Tree National Park.
            ``(3) Publication of plans.--Not later than the date that 
        is one year after the date of enactment of this section or the 
        issuance of a new energy transport facility right-of-way within 
        the Joshua Tree National Park, whichever is earlier, the 
        Secretary, in consultation with the Southern California Edison 
        Company, shall publish plans for regular and emergency access 
        by the Southern California Edison Company to the rights-of-way 
        of the Southern California Edison Company within Joshua Tree 
        National Park.

``SEC. 409. VISITOR CENTER.

    ``(a) In General.--Subject to subsection (d), the Secretary may 
acquire not more than 5 acres of land and interests in land, and 
improvements on the land and interests, outside the boundaries of 
Joshua Tree National Park, in the unincorporated village of Joshua 
Tree, for the purpose of operating a visitor center. The land and 
facilities so acquired may include the property owned (as of the date 
of enactment of this section) by the Joshua Tree National Park 
Association and commonly referred to as the `Joshua Tree National Park 
Visitor Center'.
    ``(b) Boundary.--Upon acquisition of the land authorized for 
acquisition by subsection (a), the Secretary shall modify the boundary 
of Joshua Tree National Park to include the land acquired under this 
section as a noncontiguous parcel.
    ``(c) Administration.--Land and facilities acquired under this 
section shall be administered by the Secretary as part of Joshua Tree 
National Park.
    ``(d) Authorized Acquisition Methods.--Land and facilities may be 
acquired under this section only with the consent of the owner, by 
donation, purchase with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange.''.

SEC. 303. MOJAVE NATIONAL PRESERVE BOUNDARY REVISION AND RELATED 
              PROVISIONS.

    (a) Immediate Additions.--The boundary of the Mojave National 
Preserve is adjusted to include the following:
            (1) The approximately 14,750 acres of Bureau of Land 
        Management land that is surrounded by the Mojave National 
        Preserve to the northwest, west, southwest, south, and 
        southeast, and by the Nevada State line on the northeast 
        boundary, as depicted as the ``Mojave National Preserve 
        Additions'' on the map entitled ``Mojave National Preserve 
        Proposed Additions'', numbered 170/129,826, and dated September 
        2015.
            (2) The 25 acres of Bureau of Land Management land in 
        Baker, California, as depicted on the map entitled ``Mojave 
        National Preserve Proposed Boundary Addition'', numbered 170/
        100,199, and dated August 2009.
    (b) Future Mojave National Preserve Additions.--The boundary of the 
Mojave National Preserve shall be adjusted to include the approximately 
13,250 acres of Bureau of Land Management land depicted as ``Future 
Mojave National Preserve Additions'' on the map entitled ``Mojave 
National Preserve Proposed Additions'', numbered 170/129,826, and dated 
September 2015, upon the earlier of the following:
            (1) The termination of all mining and mining-related 
        activities involving Castle Mountain Mine and the completion of 
        all reclamation in response to such activities, as determined 
        by the Secretary of the Interior.
            (2) The end of the first period of 20 consecutive years 
        occurring after the date of the enactment of this Act during 
        which no legally permissible commercial mining activities have 
        occurred pursuant to a plan of development for the Castle 
        Mountain Mine approved by the Bureau of Land Management.
    (c) Availability of Maps.--The maps described in subsections (a) 
and (b) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the Secretary of the Interior shall administer any 
        land added to Mojave National Preserve under this section--
                    (A) as part of the Mojave National Preserve; and
                    (B) in accordance with applicable laws (including 
                regulations).
            (2) Memorandum of understanding with california department 
        of fish and wildlife.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the 
        California Department of Fish and Wildlife to permit 
        operationally feasible, ongoing access to the land added to 
        Mojave National Preserve under this section for the placement 
        and maintenance of water development projects as considered 
        necessary for wildlife conservation.
    (e) Protection of Existing Rights.--
            (1) Effect on valid existing rights.--Nothing in this 
        section shall affect valid existing rights or preclude, or 
        prevent or inhibit mining or mining-related activities 
        (including water development) authorized under any Bureau of 
        Land Management approved plan of development, throughout all 
        phases of mining including completion of final reclamation, for 
        the lands described in subsections (a)(1) and (b).
            (2) Effect on private property rights.--Nothing in this 
        section shall affect any private property right (including a 
        water development right) within the boundaries of the Mojave 
        National Preserve, as adjusted by this section.
            (3) Effect on castle mountain mine rights and operations.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section shall 
                impair existing rights relating to the Castle Mountain 
                Mine, nor shall anything in this title create or impose 
                any additional regulatory or administrative 
                requirements relating to the permitting, development, 
                and operation of all phases of the Castle Mountain 
                Mine.
                    (B) Pipeline or well.--Nothing in chapter 1007 of 
                title 54, United States Code (formerly known as the 
                Mining in the National Parks Act of 1976), the 
                California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (Public Law 
                103-433), the implementing regulations of such laws, or 
                any other Federal law or regulation shall constitute a 
                bar to the lawful issuance of any right, entitlement, 
                or approval necessary for the location and use of any 
                pipeline or well necessary for Castle Mountain Mining 
                Company to conduct continued mining operations.
    (f) Southern California Edison Company Energy Transport Facilities 
and Rights-of-Way.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section terminates--
                    (A) any right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted 
                to the Southern California Edison Company (including 
                any predecessor or successor in interest or assign) as 
                of the date of the enactment of this Act that is 
                located on land described in subsections (a) and (b); 
                or
                    (B) the customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, 
                repair, relocation within such a right-of-way, 
                replacement, or other authorized energy transport 
                facility activities in such a right-of-way, including, 
                at a minimum, the use of mechanized vehicles, 
                helicopters, or other aerial devices.
            (2) Upgrades and replacements.--Nothing in this section 
        prohibits the upgrading or replacement of--
                    (A) Southern California Edison Company energy 
                transport facilities; or
                    (B) an energy transport facility in rights-of-way 
                issued, granted, or permitted by the Secretary adjacent 
                to Southern California Edison's energy transport 
                facilities within the Mojave National Preserve.
            (3) Publication of plans.--Not later than one year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act or the date of the issuance 
        of a new energy transport facility right-of-way within the 
        Mojave National Preserve, whichever is earlier, the Secretary 
        of the Interior, in consultation with the Southern California 
        Edison Company, shall publish plans for regular and emergency 
        access by the Southern California Edison Company to the rights-
        of-way of the Southern California Edison Company within the 
        Mojave National Preserve.
    (g) New Rights-of-Way.--
            (1) Retained bureau of land management authority.--
        Consideration of any right-of-way application within lands 
        described in subsection (a)(1) for the purpose of providing 
        water resources necessary for the operation of the Castle 
        Mountain Mine shall remain within the jurisdiction and 
        authority of the Bureau of Land Management, throughout the 
        development of all phases of the Castle Mountain Mine.
            (2) Consideration of applications.--The Director of the 
        Bureau of Land Management shall consider any proposed plan of 
        development, modifications to the plan, and associated right-
        of-way applications for the Castle Mountain Mine in accordance 
        with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and any other laws (including regulations) 
        applicable to the land described in subsection (b) prior to the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Expiration of authority.--The authority of the Director 
        of the Bureau of Land Management described in this subsection 
        shall terminate at the end of the first period of 20 
        consecutive years occurring after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act during which no legally permissible commercial mining 
        activities have occurred pursuant to a plan of development for 
        the Castle Mountain Mine approved by the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
            (4) Treatment of new rights-of-way.--Any new right-of-way 
        approved by the Bureau of Land Management under this subsection 
        shall be considered a valid existing right-of-way only if such 
        right-of-way is included in an approved plan of development for 
        Castle Mountain Mine.
            (5) Rights-of-way for water access.--Following any review 
        required under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 
        (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other applicable laws and 
        regulations, the National Park Service and all other Federal 
        agencies with jurisdiction, shall consider and approve--
                    (A) the application for and receipt of any rights-
                of-way, other necessary approvals and entitlements, or 
                both to access and traverse existing lands within the 
                Mojave National Preserve in order to access water 
                sources located in watersheds outside of the Preserve; 
                and
                    (B) the application and establishment of 
                underground waterways throughout the Preserve.
    (h) Future Water Facilities.--
            (1) Search for alternative water sources.--Subject to 
        paragraphs (2) and (3), Castle Mountain Mining Company shall 
        have the right to conduct reconnaissance and drilling within 
        the lands described in subsection (a)(1) to identify potential 
        alternative sources of water for development of all phases of 
        the Castle Mountain Mine.
            (2) Response to finding water supplies.--If adequate water 
        supplies are identified for the Castle Mountain Mine that are 
        in excess of existing water rights in the Mojave National 
        Preserve, Castle Mountain Mining Company may propose the 
        location of new pipelines, including possible underground 
        pipelines, and well sites, as appropriate, to the Secretary of 
        the Interior and all other Federal agencies with jurisdiction. 
        The approval of any new pipeline or well site location proposed 
        by Castle Mountain Mining Company under this paragraph shall be 
        subject to review under the National Environmental Policy Act 
        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and other applicable laws and 
        regulations.
            (3) Conclusion.--If approval of a new pipeline or well site 
        location is obtained under paragraph (2), Castle Mountain 
        Mining Company obtains any necessary entitlements from the 
        State of California for use of the water resources, and the 
        combination of new pipelines and well sites will provide Castle 
        Mountain Mining Company with adequate water supplies for 
        development of all phases of the Castle Mountain Mine, Castle 
        Mountain will then relinquish and quitclaim to the United 
        States any and all interests in its pipeline and well site in 
        existence as of the date of the enactment of this Act.

     TITLE IV--DESIGNATION OF WILD, SCENIC, AND RECREATIONAL RIVERS

SEC. 401. DESIGNATION OF WILD, SCENIC, AND RECREATIONAL RIVERS.

    Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1274(a)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (196), by striking subparagraph (A) and 
        inserting the following:
                    ``(A)(i) The approximately 1.4-mile segment of the 
                Amargosa River in the State of California, from the 
                private property boundary in sec. 19, T. 22 N., R. 7 
                E., to 100 feet downstream of Highway 178, to be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior as a 
                scenic river as an addition to the wild and scenic 
                river segments of the Amargosa River on publication by 
                the Secretary of a notice in the Federal Register that 
                sufficient inholdings within the boundaries of the 
                segments have been acquired as scenic easements or in 
                fee title to establish a manageable addition to those 
                segments.
                    ``(ii) The approximately 6.1-mile segment of the 
                Amargosa River in the State of California, from 100 
                feet downstream of the State Highway 178 crossing to 
                100 feet upstream of the Tecopa Hot Springs Road 
                crossing, to be administered by the Secretary of the 
                Interior as a scenic river.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(213) Surprise canyon creek, california.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The following segments of 
                Surprise Canyon Creek in the State of California, to be 
                administered by the Secretary of the Interior:
                            ``(i) The approximately 5.3 miles of 
                        Surprise Canyon Creek from the confluence of 
                        Frenchman's Canyon and Water Canyon to 100 feet 
                        upstream of Chris Wicht Camp, as a wild river.
                            ``(ii) The approximately 1.8 miles of 
                        Surprise Canyon Creek from 100 feet upstream of 
                        Chris Wicht Camp to the southern boundary of 
                        sec. 14, T. 21 N., R. 44 E., as a recreational 
                        river.
                    ``(B) Effect on historic mining structures.--
                Nothing in this paragraph affects the historic mining 
                structures associated with the former Panamint Mining 
                District.
                    ``(C) Effect on surprise canyon road.--Nothing in 
                this paragraph shall be construed--
                            ``(i) to restrict continued access to Chris 
                        Wicht Camp along Surprise Canyon Road; or
                            ``(ii) to prevent Inyo County, California, 
                        from maintaining and repairing Surprise Canyon 
                        Road, up to the boundary of the wild river 100 
                        feet upstream of Chris Wicht Camp, in 
                        accordance with applicable laws and 
                        regulations.
            ``(214) Deep creek, california.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The following segments of Deep 
                Creek in the State of California, to be administered by 
                the Secretary of Agriculture:
                            ``(i) The approximately 6.5-mile segment 
                        from 0.125 mile downstream of the Rainbow Dam 
                        site in sec. 33, T. 2 N., R. 2 W., to 0.25 
                        miles upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a 
                        wild river.
                            ``(ii) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 mile 
                        upstream of the Road 3N34 crossing to 0.25 mile 
                        downstream of the Road 3N34 crossing, as a 
                        scenic river.
                            ``(iii) The 2.5-mile segment from 0.25 
                        miles downstream of the Road 3 N. 34 crossing 
                        to 0.25 miles upstream of the Trail 2W01 
                        crossing, as a wild river.
                            ``(iv) The 0.5-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                        upstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to 0.25 
                        mile downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing, as 
                        a scenic river.
                            ``(v) The 10-mile segment from 0.25 miles 
                        downstream of the Trail 2W01 crossing to the 
                        upper limit of the Mojave dam flood zone in 
                        sec. 17, T. 3 N., R. 3 W., as a wild river.
                            ``(vi) The 11-mile segment of Holcomb Creek 
                        from 100 yards downstream of the Road 3N12 
                        crossing to .25 miles downstream of Holcomb 
                        Crossing, as a recreational river.
                            ``(vii) The 3.5-mile segment of the Holcomb 
                        Creek from 0.25 miles downstream of Holcomb 
                        Crossing to the Deep Creek confluence, as a 
                        wild river.
                    ``(B) Effect on ski operations.--Nothing in this 
                paragraph affects--
                            ``(i) the operations of the Snow Valley Ski 
                        Resort; or
                            ``(ii) the State regulation of water rights 
                        and water quality associated with the operation 
                        of the Snow Valley Ski Resort.
            ``(215) Whitewater river, california.--The following 
        segments of the Whitewater River in the State of California, to 
        be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture and the 
        Secretary of the Interior, acting jointly:
                    ``(A) The 5.8-mile segment of the North Fork 
                Whitewater River from the source of the River near Mt. 
                San Gorgonio to the confluence with the Middle Fork, as 
                a wild river.
                    ``(B) The 6.4-mile segment of the Middle Fork 
                Whitewater River from the source of the River to the 
                confluence with the South Fork, as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Whitewater River from the confluence of the River with 
                the East Fork to the section line between sections 32 
                and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., as a wild river.
                    ``(D) The 1-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Whitewater River from the section line between sections 
                32 and 33, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., to the section line 
                between sections 33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., as a 
                recreational river.
                    ``(E) The 4.9-mile segment of the South Fork 
                Whitewater River from the section line between sections 
                33 and 34, T. 1 S., R. 2 E., to the confluence with the 
                Middle Fork, as a wild river.
                    ``(F) The 5.4-mile segment of the main stem of the 
                Whitewater River from the confluence of the South and 
                Middle Forks to the San Gorgonio Wilderness boundary, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(G) The 3.6-mile segment of the main stem of the 
                Whitewater River from the San Gorgonio Wilderness 
                boundary to .25 miles upstream of the southern boundary 
                of section 35, T. 2 S., R. 3 E., as a recreational 
                river.''.

              TITLE V--BLACK LAVA BUTTE AND FLAT TOP MESA

SEC. 501. BLACK LAVA BUTTE AND FLAT TOP MESA AREA OF CRITICAL 
              ENVIRONMENTAL CONCERN.

    (a) Designation.--There is established the Black Lava Butte and 
Flat Top Mesa Area of Critical Environmental Concern (referred to in 
this section as the ``covered area'') within the California Desert 
Conservation Area under the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
approximately 6,350 acres as generally depicted on the map entitled 
``Proposed Black Lava Butte and Flat Top Mesa ACEC'' and dated March 2, 
2015.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary of the Interior shall administer 
the covered area to preserve the geological, biological, cultural, and 
archeological resources within the covered area.
    (c) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
and interests in Federal land included within the covered area are 
withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the United States 
        mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing and mineral materials.
    (d) Prohibition on Renewable Energy Generation Facilities.--
Development of renewable energy generation facilities (excluding 
rights-of-way or facilities for the transmission of energy and 
telecommunication facilities and infrastructure) is prohibited within 
the covered area.

            TITLE VI--MOJAVE TRAILS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA

SEC. 601. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Management area.--The term ``Management Area'' means 
        the Mojave Trails Special Management Area.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Mojave Trails Special Management Area'' and dated 
        September 30, 2015.
            (3) Energy transport facility.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``energy transport 
                facility'' means any facility used for the operation, 
                maintenance, transmission, distribution, or 
                transportation of electricity or natural gas.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``energy transport 
                facility'' includes--
                            (i) electric and gas transmission and 
                        distribution facilities;
                            (ii) telecommunications facilities; and
                            (iii) appurtenant equipment owned or used 
                        by a public or municipal utility company or 
                        water district.
            (4) Mechanized vehicle.--The term ``mechanized vehicle'' 
        means a motorized or mechanized vehicle or equipment used by a 
        public or municipal utility company or water district to 
        construct, operate, maintain, repair, or upgrade electricity, 
        natural gas, telecommunications, or water infrastructure.
            (5) Public-utility company.--The term ``public-utility 
        company'' has the meaning given the term in section 1262 of the 
        Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16451).
            (6) Public lands.--The term ``public lands'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 103 of the Federal Land 
        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1702).
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 602. MOJAVE TRAILS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Mojave Trails Special 
Management Area in the State of California, to be managed by the 
Barstow Field Office and the Needles Field Office of the Bureau of Land 
Management.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Management Area is--
            (1) to preserve and maintain the nationally significant 
        biological, cultural, recreational, geological, educational, 
        historic, scenic, and scientific values--
                    (A) in the Central and Eastern Mojave Desert; and
                    (B) along historic Route 66;
            (2) to secure the opportunity for present and future 
        generations to experience and enjoy the magnificent vistas, 
        wildlife, land forms, and natural and cultural resources of the 
        Management Area;
            (3) to provide public recreational use of the Management 
        Area, including motorized vehicle use on designated roads and 
        trails; and
            (4) to provide access to mineral resources for mining and 
        economic development.
    (c) Boundaries.--The Management Area shall consist of the public 
lands in San Bernardino County, California, comprising approximately 
965,000 acres, as generally depicted on the map.
    (d) Map; Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable, but not later than 
        three years, after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall submit a map and legal description of the 
        Management Area to--
                    (A) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this Act, except that the Secretary may correct any 
        errors in the map and legal description.
            (3) Availability.--Copies of the map submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in--
                    (A) the Office of the Director of the Bureau of 
                Land Management; and
                    (B) the appropriate office of the Bureau of Land 
                Management in the State of California.

SEC. 603. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Certain Activities Authorized.--The Secretary shall allow 
hiking, camping, hunting, trapping, fishing, and sightseeing and the 
use of motorized vehicles, mountain bikes, and horses on designated 
routes in the Management Area in a manner that--
            (1) is consistent with the purpose of the Management Area;
            (2) ensures public health and safety; and
            (3) is consistent with applicable law.
    (b) Off-Highway Vehicle Use.--
            (1) In general.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
        subsection and subject to all other applicable laws, the use of 
        off-highway vehicles shall be permitted on routes in the 
        Management Area generally depicted on the map.
            (2) Closure.--Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary may 
        temporarily close or permanently reroute a portion of a route 
        described in paragraph (1) or opened pursuant to paragraph 
        (4)--
                    (A) to prevent, or allow for restoration of, 
                resource damage;
                    (B) to protect tribal cultural resources, including 
                the resources identified in the tribal cultural 
                resources management survey conducted under subsection 
                (g);
                    (C) to address public safety concerns; or
                    (D) as otherwise required by law.
            (3) No net loss.--Except in the case of the temporary 
        closure of a route due to an emergency, before any routes 
        described in paragraph (1) are closed, the Secretary should 
        open new routes pursuant to paragraph (4) to ensure that there 
        is no net loss in the total mileage of open routes in the 
        Management Area available for off-highway vehicle use.
            (4) Designation of additional routes.--During the three-
        year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary--
                    (A) shall accept petitions from the public 
                regarding additional routes for off-highway vehicles in 
                the Management Area; and
                    (B) may designate additional routes that the 
                Secretary determines--
                            (i) would provide significant or unique 
                        recreational opportunities; and
                            (ii) are consistent with the purposes of 
                        the Management Area.
    (c) Memorandum of Understanding With California Department of Fish 
and Wildlife.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall enter into a memorandum of 
understanding with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife to 
permit operationally feasible, ongoing access to the Management Area 
for the placement and maintenance of water development projects as 
considered necessary for wildlife conservation.
    (d) Hunting, Trapping, and Fishing.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary shall permit hunting, trapping, and fishing within 
        the Management Area in accordance with applicable Federal and 
        State laws (including regulations).
            (2) Trapping.--No amphibians or reptiles may be collected 
        within the Management Area, except for--
                    (A) scientific purposes;
                    (B) the removal of an invasive species; or
                    (C) identification/medical purposes in response to 
                a snakebite.
            (3) Regulations.--The Secretary, after consultation with 
        the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, may designate 
        zones in which, and establish periods during which, hunting, 
        trapping, and fishing shall not be allowed in the Management 
        Area for reasons of public safety, administration, resource 
        protection, or public use and enjoyment.
    (e) Grazing.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title terminates any valid 
        existing grazing permit within the Management Area.
            (2) Effect on blair permit.--Nothing in this title affects 
        the Lazy Daisy grazing permit (permittee number 9076) on land 
        included in the Management Area including the transfer of title 
        to the grazing permit to the Secretary or to a private party.
            (3) Permit retirement.--The Secretary may acquire base 
        property and associated grazing permits within the Management 
        Area for purposes of permanently retiring the permit if--
                    (A) the permittee is a willing seller;
                    (B) the permittee and Secretary reach an agreement 
                concerning the terms and conditions of the acquisition; 
                and
                    (C) termination of the allotment would further the 
                purposes of the Management Area described in section 
                602(b).
    (f) New Mining.--
            (1) Open to mining.--The Management Area will remain--
                    (A) open to location, entry, and patent under the 
                public mining laws; and
                    (B) subject to the mineral leasing and mineral 
                materials laws.
            (2) Limitations.--New mining will not be permitted on--
                    (A) any land within the Management Area donated to 
                the United States for conservation purposes since 
                January 1, 1995; or
                    (B) more than 10 percent of the total acreage of 
                the Management Area.
    (g) Access to State and Private Land.--
            (1) Access.--The Secretary shall provide adequate access to 
        each owner of non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land 
        within the boundary of the Management Area to ensure the 
        reasonable maintenance, use, and enjoyment of the land or 
        interest by the owner.
            (2) Survey of existing motorized access routes.--Not later 
        than two years after enactment of this title, the Secretary 
        shall consult with the owners of all non-Federal land within 
        the boundary of the Monument to inventory all existing 
        motorized access routes to private parcels existing as of the 
        date of enactment of this title.
            (3) Prohibition on closing motorized access routes.--The 
        Secretary shall not close or deny use of any routes inventoried 
        in paragraph (2).
            (4) Public safety exception.--Subject to paragraph (5), the 
        Secretary may temporarily or permanently reroute a portion of a 
        route inventoried in paragraph (2) to address public safety 
        concerns.
            (5) No let loss of access.--Except in the case of temporary 
        closure of a route due to an emergency, before any route 
        inventoried in paragraph (2) is closed, the Secretary must open 
        a new motorized access route to private parcels impacted by the 
        closure.
    (h) Limitations on Commercial Enterprises.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), or as required for the customary operation, maintenance, 
        upgrade, expansion, or development of energy transport 
        facilities within corridors or rights-of-way described in 
        subsection (g), no commercial enterprises shall be authorized 
        within the boundary of the Management Area after the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
            (2) Additional exceptions authorized by secretary.--The 
        Secretary may authorize exceptions to paragraph (1) if the 
        Secretary determines that the commercial enterprise would 
        further the purposes described in section 602(b).
            (3) Exceptions.--This subsection does not apply to the 
        following:
                    (A) Energy transport facilities that are owned or 
                operated by a utility subject to regulation by the 
                Federal Government or a State government or a State 
                utility with a service obligation (as those terms may 
                be defined in section 217 of the Federal Power Act (16 
                U.S.C. 824q)).
                    (B) Mining.
                    (C) Commercial vehicular touring enterprises within 
                the Management Area that operate on designated routes.
                    (D) Holders of permits for commercial enterprises, 
                such as touring, wildlife viewing, or guiding for 
                profit, within the Management Area, regardless of 
                whether the permit is issued before, on, or after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act.
                    (E) Commercial operations that take place on non-
                Federal land within the boundary of the Management 
                Area.
    (i) Rights-of-Way and Energy Transport Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), nothing in this 
        title precludes, prevents, or inhibits the following activities 
        within rights-of-way or corridors in existence in the 
        Management Area as of the date of the enactment of this Act:
                    (A) Use of mechanized vehicles.
                    (B) Customary operation.
                    (C) Maintenance.
                    (D) Construction.
                    (E) Incidental uses.
                    (F) Upgrades or expansion.
                    (G) Relocation within the right-of-way.
                    (H) Replacement.
                    (I) Development of energy transport facilities.
            (2) Limitation.--The activities described in paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in a manner that minimizes the impact of the 
        activities on Management Area resources.
            (3) Rights-of-way.--The Secretary shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable--
                    (A) permit rights-of-way and corridor alignments 
                that best protect the values and resources of the 
                Management Area described in section 602(b); and
                    (B) ensure that--
                            (i) existing rights-of-way and utility 
                        corridors within the Management Area are fully 
                        utilized before authorizing any new or expanded 
                        utility right-of-way or corridor; and
                            (ii) no economically, technically, or 
                        legally feasible alternative exists outside the 
                        Management Area before authorizing a new or 
                        expanded energy transport facility right-of-way 
                        or corridor within the Management Area.
            (4) Effect on existing facilities and rights-of-way.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section terminates 
                or limits any valid right-of-way within the Management 
                Area in existence as of the date of enactment of this 
                Act (including the customary operation, maintenance, 
                repair, relocation within an existing right-of-way, or 
                replacement of energy transport facilities within an 
                existing right-of-way), or other authorized right-of-
                way, including a right-of-way described in subparagraph 
                (B).
                    (B) Inclusions.--A right-of-way referred to in 
                subparagraph (A) includes, but is not limited to--
                            (i) a right-of-way issued, granted, or 
                        permitted to--
                                    (I) the Southern California Edison 
                                Company or any predecessors, 
                                successors, or assigns of the Southern 
                                California Edison Company, which are 
                                referred to as of the date of enactment 
                                of this Act as Lugo-Mohave, Eldorado-
                                Lugo, Cima-Eldorado-Pisgah 1 and 2, and 
                                Lugo-Pisgah 1 and 2 transmission line 
                                rights-of-way, Hector, Lava, Sheephole, 
                                and Danby distribution circuit rights-
                                of-way, and any rights-of-way 
                                affiliated with the Camino Substation;
                                    (II) the Pacific Gas and Electric 
                                Company or any predecessors, 
                                successors, or assigns of the Pacific 
                                Gas and Electric Company, which are 
                                referred to as Gas Transmission Lines 
                                300A, 300B, 311, and 372 rights-of-way;
                                    (III) the Southern California Gas 
                                Company or any predecessors, 
                                successors, or assigns of the Southern 
                                California Gas Company, which are 
                                referred to as Gas Transmission Lines 
                                235, 3000, and 6916 rights-of-way; and
                                    (IV) the Celeron Pipeline Company 
                                and the All American Pipeline Company 
                                by Right-of-Way Grant No. CA 14013 from 
                                the Bureau of Land Management; and
                            (ii) a right-of-way authorization issued on 
                        the expiration of an existing right-of-way 
                        authorization described in clause (i).
                    (C) Publication of plans.--Not later than one year 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, 
                in consultation with the Southern California Edison 
                Company, the Pacific Gas and Electric Company, the 
                Southern California Gas Company, and the Metropolitan 
                Water District of Southern California, shall publish 
                plans for regular and emergency access by such 
                utilities to the respective rights-of-way of those 
                utilities within the Management Area.
            (5) Upgrading and expansion of existing rights-of-way.--
        Nothing in this subsection prohibits the upgrading (including 
        the construction, relocation, or replacement within an existing 
        right-of-way) or expansion of an existing energy transport 
        facility for the purpose of increasing the transmission 
        capacity of the energy transport facility or for providing 
        energy storage consistent with requirements of the California 
        Public Utilities Commission, or the Federal or State agency 
        with regulatory authority over those actions, in--
                    (A) existing rights-of-way or corridors within the 
                Management Area; or
                    (B) a right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted by 
                the Secretary that is contiguous or adjacent to 
                existing energy transport facility rights-of-way, 
                including existing Southern California Edison Company, 
                Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and Southern 
                California Gas Company energy transport facility 
                rights-of-way.
            (6) Interstate 40 transportation corridor.--For purposes of 
        utility rights-of-way under this subsection, the Secretary 
        shall consider the Interstate 40 transportation corridor to be 
        equivalent to a utility right-of-way corridor in existence as 
        of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (7) New rights-of-way.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as authorized in 
                subparagraph (B), any new right-of-way within the 
                Management Area shall--
                            (i) only be permitted--
                                    (I) in an energy corridor that is 
                                designated as of the date of enactment 
                                of this Act; or
                                    (II) as an expansion of an energy 
                                corridor described in subclause (I); 
                                and
                            (ii) require compliance with the National 
                        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
                        4321 et seq.).
                    (B) Approval.--A new right-of-way, or expansion of 
                an existing energy corridor, authorized by subparagraph 
                (A) shall only be approved if the Secretary, in 
                consultation with applicable Federal and State 
                agencies, determines that the new right-of-way or 
                expansion of an existing corridor is consistent with--
                            (i) this title;
                            (ii) other applicable laws;
                            (iii) the purposes of the Management Area 
                        described in section 602(b); and
                            (iv) the management plan for the Management 
                        Area.
    (j) Overflights.--Nothing in this title or the management plan 
restricts or precludes--
            (1) overflights (including low-level overflights) of 
        military, commercial, and general aviation aircraft that can be 
        seen or heard within the Management Area;
            (2) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace;
            (3) the establishment of military flight training routes 
        over the Management Area; or
            (4) the use (including takeoff and landing) of helicopters 
        and other aerial devices to construct or maintain energy 
        transport facilities.
    (k) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the Management Area is withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws; and
            (2) right-of-way, leasing, or disposition under all laws 
        relating to solar, wind, and geothermal energy.
    (l) Prohibition on Renewable Energy Generation Facilities.--
Development of renewable energy generation facilities (excluding 
rights-of-way or facilities for the transmission of energy and 
telecommunication facilities and infrastructure) is prohibited within 
the Management Area.
    (m) No Buffers.--The establishment of the Management Area shall 
not--
            (1) create a protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
        Management Area; or
            (2) restrict, preclude, limit, or prevent uses or 
        activities outside the Management Area that are permitted under 
        other applicable laws, even if the uses or activities are 
        prohibited within the Management Area.
    (n) Notice of Available Routes.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
visitors to the Management Area have access to adequate notice relating 
to the availability of designated routes in the Management Area 
through--
            (1) the placement of appropriate signage along the 
        designated routes;
            (2) the distribution of maps, safety education materials, 
        and other information that the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate; and
            (3) restoration of areas that are not designated as open 
        routes, including vertical mulching.
    (o) Stewardship.--In consultation with Indian tribes and other 
interested persons, the Secretary shall develop a program to provide 
opportunities for monitoring and stewardship of the Management Area to 
minimize environmental impacts and prevent resource damage from 
recreational use, including volunteer assistance with--
            (1) route signage;
            (2) restoration of closed routes;
            (3) protection of Management Area resources; and
            (4) recreation education.
    (p) Protection of Tribal Cultural Resources.--Not later than two 
years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
accordance with chapter 2003 of title 54, United States Code, and any 
other applicable law, shall--
            (1) prepare and complete a tribal cultural resources survey 
        of the Management Area; and
            (2) consult with the Fort Mojave Indian Tribe, the Colorado 
        River Indian Tribes, the Chemehuevi Indian Tribe, the San 
        Manuel Band of Serrano Mission Indians, and other Indian tribes 
        with historic or cultural ties to land within, or adjacent to, 
        the Management Area regarding the management of portions of the 
        Management Area containing sacred sites or cultural importance 
        to the Indian tribes on the development and implementation of 
        the tribal cultural resources survey under paragraph (1).
    (q) Protection of Property Rights.--
            (1) No affect on non-federal land.--The establishment of 
        the Management Area does not affect--
                    (A) any land or interest in land held by the State 
                of California, political subdivision of the State, or 
                special district;
                    (B) any private property right (including a water 
                development right) within or adjacent to the boundaries 
                of the Management Area;
                    (C) any land, interest in land, or customary 
                operation, maintenance, repair, or replacement activity 
                carried out on, over, or under land or within an 
                existing right-of-way in the Management Area; or
                    (D) access to valid existing water rights and the 
                operation and maintenance of water conveyance 
                structures associated with the water rights.
            (2) No new authority.--Nothing in this title grants to the 
        Secretary any authority on or over non-Federal land not already 
        provided by law.

SEC. 604. ACQUISITION OF LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary may acquire for inclusion in the 
Management Area any land or interests in land within the boundary of 
the Management Area owned by the State, units of local government, 
Indian tribes, nonprofit organizations, private individuals, or any 
other landowner only by--
            (1) donation;
            (2) exchange with a willing party; or
            (3) purchase from a willing seller.
    (b) Use of Easements.--To the maximum extent practicable and only 
with the approval of the landowner, the Secretary may use permanent 
conservation easements to acquire an interest in land in the Management 
Area rather than acquiring fee simple title to the land.
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests in Land.--Any land 
or interest in land within the boundaries of the Management Area that 
is acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this 
Act shall be added to and administered as part of the Management Area.
    (d) Donated and Acquired Land.--
            (1) In general.--All land within the boundary of the 
        Management Area donated to the United States or acquired using 
        amounts from the land and water conservation fund established 
        under section 200302 of title 54, United States Code, before, 
        on, or after the date of enactment of this Act--
                    (A) shall be managed in accordance with section 
                603; and
                    (B) shall be managed consistent with the purposes 
                of the Management Area described in section 602(b).
            (2) Effect on management area.--Land within the boundary of 
        the Management Area that is contiguous to land donated to the 
        United States or acquired through purchase or exchange shall be 
        managed in a manner consistent with conservation purposes, 
        subject to applicable law.

SEC. 605. RENEWABLE ENERGY RIGHT-OF-WAY APPLICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Applicants for rights-of-way for the development 
of solar energy facilities that have been terminated by the 
establishment of the Management Area shall be granted the right of 
first refusal to apply for replacement sites that--
            (1) have not previously been encumbered by right-of-way 
        applications; and
            (2) are located within the Solar Energy Zones designated by 
        the Solar Energy Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement of 
        the Department of the Interior and the Department of Energy.
    (b) Eligibility.--To be eligible for a right of first refusal under 
subsection (a), an applicant shall have, on or before December 1, 
2009--
            (1) submitted an application for a right-of-way to the 
        Bureau of Land Management;
            (2) completed a plan of development to develop a solar 
        energy facility on land within the Management Area;
            (3) submitted cost recovery funds to the Bureau of Land 
        Management to assist with the costs of processing the right-of-
        way application;
            (4) successfully submitted an application for an 
        interconnection agreement with an electrical grid operator that 
        is registered with the North American Electric Reliability 
        Corporation; and
            (5)(A) secured a power purchase agreement; or
            (B) a financially and technically viable solar energy 
        facility project, as determined by the Director of the Bureau 
        of Land Management.
    (c) Equivalent Energy Production.--Each right-of-way for a 
replacement site granted under this section shall--
            (1) authorize the same energy production at the replacement 
        site as had been applied for at the site that had been the 
        subject of the terminated application; and
            (2) have--
                    (A) appropriate solar insolation and geotechnical 
                attributes; and
                    (B) adequate access to existing transmission or 
                feasible new transmission.
    (d) Existing Rights-of-Way Applications.--Nothing in this section 
alters, affects, or displaces primary rights-of-way applications within 
the Solar Energy Study Areas unless the applications are otherwise 
altered, affected, or displaced as a result of the Solar Energy 
Programmatic Environmental Impact Statement of the Department of the 
Interior and the Department of Energy.
    (e) Deadlines.--A right of first refusal granted under this section 
shall only be exercisable by the date that is 180 days after the date 
of enactment of this Act.
    (f) Expedited Application Processing.--The Secretary shall expedite 
the review of replacement site applications from eligible applicants, 
as described in subsection (b).

SEC. 606. EXPEDITED ENVIRONMENTAL REVIEW PROCESS TO FACILITATE ROUTE 66 
              BRIDGE REPAIR AND REPLACEMENT WITHIN MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Programmatic Environmental Review Process.--Consistent with 
section 139 of title 23, United States Code, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall authorize the use of a single programmatic 
environmental review process to cover all repair or replacement 
projects proposed for bridges of Route 66, also known as National 
Trails Highway, located within the Management Area.
    (b) Preservation of Parklands, Refuges, and Historic Sites.--
Section 138 of title 23, United States Code, and section 303 of title 
49, United States Code, shall not apply to the bridge repair and 
replacement projects described in subsection (a).
    (c) Endangered Species Act.--The bridge repair and replacement 
projects described in subsection (a) are exempt from the biological 
survey and consultation requirements of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
    (d) National Historic Preservation Review.--Section 306108 of title 
54, United States Code, shall not apply to the bridge repair and 
replacement projects described in subsection (a).
    (e) Federal Actions To Address Environmental Justice.--Executive 
Order No. 12898 (59 Fed. Reg. 7629; 42 U.S.C. 4321 note), as amended by 
Executive Order No. 12948 (60 Fed. Reg. 6381), shall not apply to the 
bridge repair and replacement projects described in subsection (a).

               TITLE VII--SAND TO SNOW NATIONAL MONUMENT

SEC. 701. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Energy transport facility.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``energy transport 
                facility'' means any facility used for the operation, 
                maintenance, transmission, distribution, or 
                transportation of electricity or natural gas.
                    (B) Inclusions.--The term ``energy transport 
                facility'' includes--
                            (i) electric and gas transmission and 
                        distribution facilities;
                            (ii) telecommunications facilities; and
                            (iii) appurtenant equipment owned or used 
                        by a public or municipal utility company or 
                        water district.
            (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Sand to Snow National Monument'' and dated August 4, 
        2015.
            (3) Mechanized vehicle.--The term ``mechanized vehicle'' 
        means a motorized or mechanized vehicle or equipment used by a 
        public or municipal utility company or water district to 
        construct, operate, maintain, repair, or upgrade electricity, 
        natural gas, telecommunications, or water infrastructure.
            (4) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Sand to Snow 
        National Monument established by section 702(a).
            (5) Public-utility company.--The term ``public-utility 
        company'' has the meaning given the term in section 1262 of the 
        Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16451).
            (6) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture, 
        acting jointly.

SEC. 702. SAND TO SNOW NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the State of California 
the Sand to Snow National Monument.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Monument are--
            (1) to preserve the nationally significant biological, 
        cultural, educational, geological, historic, scenic, and 
        recreational values at the convergence of the Mojave and 
        Colorado Desert and the San Bernardino Mountains; and
            (2) to secure the opportunity for present and future 
        generations to experience and enjoy the magnificent vistas, 
        wildlife, land forms, and natural and cultural resources of the 
        Monument.
    (c) Boundaries.--
            (1) In general.--The Monument shall consist of the Federal 
        land and Federal interests in land within the boundaries 
        depicted on the map.
            (2) Distance from state highways.--In accordance with the 
        policy of the Bureau of Land Management, the boundaries of the 
        Monument shall be set back not less than 300 feet from all 
        State highways.
    (d) Map; Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) Legal description.--As soon as practicable after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to 
        the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate legal descriptions of the Monument, 
        based on the map.
            (2) Corrections.--The map and legal descriptions of the 
        Monument shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
        this title, except that the Secretaries may correct clerical 
        and typographical errors in the map and legal descriptions.
            (3) Availability of map.--The map shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in appropriate offices of the 
        Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 703. MANAGEMENT OF MONUMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries shall--
            (1) only allow uses of the Monument that--
                    (A) further the purposes described in section 
                702(b);
                    (B) are included in the management plan developed 
                under subsection (g); and
                    (C) do not interfere with the energy transport 
                facility rights-of-way authorized under section 704(e); 
                and
            (2) subject to valid existing rights, manage the Monument 
        to protect the resources of the Monument, in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) any other applicable provisions of law.
    (b) Cooperation Agreements.--
            (1) General authority.--Consistent with the management plan 
        and authorities applicable to the Monument, the Secretaries may 
        enter into cooperative agreements (including special use 
        permits with any person (including educational institutions and 
        Indian tribes)), for the purposes of interpreting, researching, 
        and providing education on the resources of the Monument.
            (2) Memorandum of understanding with california department 
        of fish and wildlife.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall enter into 
        a memorandum of understanding with the California Department of 
        Fish and Wildlife to permit operationally feasible, ongoing 
        access to the Monument for the placement and maintenance of 
        water development projects as considered necessary for wildlife 
        conservation.
    (c) Administration of Subsequently Acquired Land.--Any land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of the Monument that is acquired 
by the Secretaries after the date of enactment of this Act shall be 
managed by the Secretary concerned in accordance with this title.
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Property rights.--
                    (A) In general.--The establishment of the Monument 
                does not--
                            (i) affect--
                                    (I) any land or interest in land 
                                held by the State, political 
                                subdivision of the State, or special 
                                district;
                                    (II) any private property right 
                                (including a water development right) 
                                within the boundaries of the Monument;
                                    (III) any land, interest in land, 
                                or customary operation, maintenance, 
                                repair, or replacement activity carried 
                                out on, over, or under land or within a 
                                right-of-way granted to, owned by, or 
                                controlled by the Metropolitan Water 
                                District or the Southern California 
                                Edison Company pursuant to law or legal 
                                right (including the Act of June 18, 
                                1932 (47 Stat. 324, chapter 270)) 
                                included in the Monument and conducted 
                                in a manner that minimizes the impact 
                                on the resources of the Monument; or
                                    (IV) access to valid existing water 
                                rights and the operation and 
                                maintenance of water conveyance 
                                structures associated with the water 
                                rights; or
                            (ii) grant to the Secretaries any authority 
                        on or over non-Federal land not already 
                        provided by law.
                    (B) Plans.--Not later than one year after the date 
                of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries, in 
                consultation with the district and company referred to 
                in subparagraph (A)(i)(III) shall publish plans for 
                regular and emergency access to the land and rights-of-
                way owned or controlled by the company or district.
            (2) Authority.--The authority of the Secretaries under this 
        title extends only to Federal land and Federal interests in 
        land included in the Monument.
    (e) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates any 
        protective perimeter or buffer zone around the Monument.
            (2) Activities outside monument.--The fact that an activity 
        or use on land outside the Monument can be seen or heard within 
        the Monument shall not preclude the activity or use outside the 
        boundary of the Monument.
            (3) No additional regulation.--Nothing in this title 
        requires additional regulation of activities on land outside 
        the boundary of the Monument.
    (f) Air and Water Quality.--Nothing in this title affects the 
standards governing air or water quality outside the boundary of the 
Monument.
    (g) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries shall--
                    (A) not later than three years after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, complete a management plan for 
                the conservation and protection of the Monument; and
                    (B) on completion of the management plan--
                            (i) submit the management plan to--
                                    (I) the Committee on Natural 
                                Resources of the House of 
                                Representatives; and
                                    (II) the Committee on Energy and 
                                Natural Resources of the Senate; and
                            (ii) make the management plan available to 
                        the public.
            (2) Inclusions.--The management plan shall include 
        provisions that--
                    (A) provide for the conservation and protection of 
                the Monument;
                    (B) authorize the continued recreational uses of 
                the Monument (including hiking, camping, hunting, 
                mountain biking, sightseeing, off-highway vehicle 
                recreation on designated routes, rockhounding, sport 
                shooting, and horseback riding), if the recreational 
                uses are consistent with this title and any other 
                applicable law;
                    (C) address the designation and maintenance of 
                roads, trails, and paths in the Monument and take into 
                consideration--
                            (i) connecting trails within the Monument 
                        to trails on other adjacent public land; and
                            (ii) establishing a trailhead at Cabot's 
                        Pueblo in the city of Desert Hot Springs, 
                        California;
                    (D) address regional fire management planning and 
                coordination between the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                Management, the Chief of the Forest Service, Riverside 
                County, and San Bernardino County;
                    (E) address the establishment of a visitor center 
                to serve the Monument and adjacent public land;
                    (F) provide for the maintenance of and access to 
                energy transport facilities and rights-of-way within 
                the Monument; and
                    (G) provide for the maintenance of and access to 
                existing water conveyance systems and rights-of-way 
                within the Monument.
            (3) Preparation and implementation.--
                    (A) Applicable law.--The Secretaries shall prepare 
                and implement the management plan in accordance with 
                the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and any other applicable laws.
                    (B) Consultation.--In preparing and implementing 
                the management plan, the Secretaries shall periodically 
                consult with--
                            (i) the advisory committee established 
                        under section 706;
                            (ii) interested private property owners and 
                        holders of valid rights located within the 
                        boundaries of the Monument; and
                            (iii) representatives of the San Manuel 
                        Band of Serrano Mission Indians, the Morongo 
                        Band of Mission Indians, and other Indian 
                        tribes with historic or cultural ties to land 
                        within, or adjacent to, the Monument regarding 
                        the management of portions of the Monument that 
                        are of cultural importance to the Indian 
                        tribes.
            (4) Interim management.--Except as otherwise prohibited by 
        this Act, pending completion of the management plan for the 
        Monument, the Secretaries shall manage any Federal land and 
        Federal interests in land within the boundary of the Monument--
                    (A) in accordance with section 1.6D of the Bureau 
                of Land Management manual numbered 6220, dated July 13, 
                2012, and entitled ``National Monuments, National 
                Conservation Areas, and Similar Designations''; and
                    (B) consistent with the purposes of the Monument 
                described in section 702(b).

SEC. 704. USES OF MONUMENT.

    (a) Use of Off-Highway Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except as necessary for administrative 
        purposes or to respond to an emergency, the use of off-highway 
        motorized vehicles in the Monument (including the use of off-
        highway motorized vehicles for commercial touring) shall be 
        permitted only on designated routes, subject to all applicable 
        law and as authorized by the management plan.
            (2) Inventory.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Land 
        Management shall--
                    (A) complete an inventory of all existing routes in 
                the Monument; and
                    (B) designate routes concurrently with the 
                completion of the management plan.
    (b) Hunting, Trapping, and Fishing.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretaries shall permit hunting, trapping, and fishing within 
        the Monument in accordance with applicable Federal and State 
        laws (including regulations) as of the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Trapping.--No amphibians or reptiles may be collected 
        within the Monument, except for--
                    (A) scientific purposes;
                    (B) the removal of an invasive species; or
                    (C) identification/medical purposes in response to 
                a snakebite.
            (3) Regulations.--The Secretaries, after consultation with 
        the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, may designate 
        zones in which, and establish periods during which, hunting, 
        trapping, and fishing shall not be allowed in the Monument for 
        reasons of public safety, administration, resource protection, 
        or public use and enjoyment.
    (c) Access to State and Private Land.--
            (1) Access.--The Secretaries shall provide access to each 
        owner of non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land 
        within the boundary of the Monument to ensure the reasonable 
        maintenance, use, and enjoyment of the land or interest by the 
        owner.
            (2) Survey of existing motorized access routes.--Not later 
        than two years after enactment of this Act, the Secretaries 
        shall consult with the owners of all non-Federal land within 
        the boundary of the Monument to inventory all existing 
        motorized access routes to private parcels existing as of the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
            (3) Prohibition on closing motorized access routes.--The 
        Secretaries shall not close, restrict, or deny use of any 
        routes inventoried in paragraph (2).
            (4) Public safety exception.--Subject to paragraph (5), the 
        Secretaries may temporarily or permanently reroute a portion of 
        a route inventoried in paragraph (2) to address public safety 
        concerns.
            (5) No net loss of access.--Except in the case of temporary 
        closure of a route due to an emergency, before any route 
        inventoried in paragraph (2) is closed, the Secretaries must 
        open a new motorized access route to private parcels impacted 
        by the closure.
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Commercial enterprises.--Except as provided in 
        paragraphs (2) and (3), or as required for the customary 
        operation, maintenance, upgrade, expansion, or development of 
        energy transport facilities within the rights-of-way described 
        in subsection (e), no commercial enterprises shall be 
        authorized within the boundary of the Monument after the date 
        of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Authorized exceptions.--The Secretaries may authorize 
        exceptions to paragraph (1) if the Secretaries determine that 
        the commercial enterprises would further the purposes described 
        in section 702(b).
            (3) Application.--This subsection does not apply to the 
        following:
                    (A) Energy transport facilities that are owned or 
                operated by a utility subject to regulation by the 
                Federal Government or a State government or a State 
                utility with a service obligation (as those terms are 
                defined in section 217 of the Federal Power Act (16 
                U.S.C. 824q)).
                    (B) Commercial vehicular touring enterprises within 
                the Monument that operate on designated routes.
                    (C) Holders of permits for commercial enterprises, 
                such as touring, wildlife viewing, or guiding for 
                profit, within the Monument, regardless of whether the 
                permit is issued before, on, or after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
                    (D) Commercial operations that take place on non-
                Federal land within the boundary of the Monument.
    (e) Energy Transport Facilities and Rights-of-Way.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), nothing in this 
        Act precludes, prevents, or inhibits the use of mechanized 
        vehicles or customary operation, maintenance, upgrade, 
        expansion, relocation within an existing right-of-way, 
        replacement, or development of energy transport facilities 
        within existing rights-of-way located in the Monument.
            (2) Limitation.--The activities described in paragraph (1) 
        shall be conducted in a manner that minimizes the impact of the 
        activities on Monument resources.
            (3) Rights-of-way.--The Secretaries shall, to the maximum 
        extent practicable--
                    (A) permit rights-of-way that best protect the 
                values and resources of the Monument described in 
                section 702(b); and
                    (B) ensure that--
                            (i) existing rights-of-way within the 
                        Monument are fully utilized before authorizing 
                        any new or expanded utility right-of-way; and
                            (ii) no economically, technically, or 
                        legally feasible alternative exists outside the 
                        Monument before authorizing a new or expanded 
                        energy transport facility right-of-way within 
                        the Monument.
            (4) Effect on existing facilities and rights-of-way.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section terminates 
                or limits any valid right-of-way within the Monument in 
                existence on the date of enactment of this Act 
                (including the customary operation, maintenance, 
                repair, relocation within an existing right-of-way, or 
                replacement of energy transport facilities within an 
                existing right-of-way), or other authorized right-of-
                way, including a right-of-way described in subparagraph 
                (B).
                    (B) Inclusions.--A right-of-way referred to in 
                subparagraph (A) includes--
                            (i) a right-of-way issued, granted, or 
                        permitted to the Southern California Edison 
                        Company or any predecessors, successors, or 
                        assigns of the Southern California Edison 
                        Company, which are referred to as the Devers-Hi 
                        Desert-Terawind-Yucca transmission line rights-
                        of-way and Coachella, Skyborne, and Toll 
                        distribution circuit rights-of-way; and
                            (ii) a right-of-way authorization issued on 
                        the expiration of an existing right-of-way 
                        authorization described in clause (i).
                    (C) Publication of plans.--Not later than one year 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretaries, in consultation with the Southern 
                California Edison Company, shall publish plans for 
                regular and emergency access by the Southern California 
                Edison Company to the rights-of-way of the Southern 
                California Edison Company within the Monument.
            (5) Upgrading and expansion of existing rights-of-way.--
        Nothing in this subsection prohibits the upgrading (including 
        the construction, relocation, or replacement within an existing 
        right-of-way) or expansion of an existing energy transport 
        facility for the purpose of increasing the transmission 
        capacity of the energy transport facility or for providing 
        energy storage consistent with the requirements of the 
        California Public Utilities Commission in--
                    (A) existing rights-of-way within the Monument; or
                    (B) a right-of-way issued, granted, or permitted by 
                the Secretaries that is contiguous or adjacent to 
                existing energy transport facility rights-of-way, 
                including existing Southern California Edison Sand to 
                Snow energy transport facility rights-of-way.
            (6) New rights-of-way and new uses.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as authorized in 
                subparagraph (B), any new rights-of-way or new uses 
                within existing rights-of-way shall require compliance 
                with the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
                    (B) Approval.--New rights-of-way shall only be 
                approved if the Secretaries, in consultation with 
                applicable Federal and State agencies, determine that 
                the new rights-of-way are consistent with--
                            (i) this title;
                            (ii) other applicable laws;
                            (iii) the purposes of the Monument 
                        described in section 702(b); and
                            (iv) the management plan for the Monument.
    (f) Overflights.--Nothing in this title or the management plan 
restricts or precludes--
            (1) overflights (including low-level overflights) of 
        military, commercial, and general aviation aircraft that can be 
        seen or heard within the Monument;
            (2) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace;
            (3) the establishment of military flight training routes 
        over the Monument; or
            (4) the use (including takeoff and landing) of helicopters 
        and other aerial devices to construct or maintain energy 
        transport facilities.
    (g) Withdrawals.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to this Act and valid existing 
        rights and except as provided in paragraph (2), the Federal 
        land and interests in Federal land included within the Monument 
        are withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the public 
                land mining laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, geothermal 
                leasing, and mineral materials laws.
            (2) Exchange.--Paragraph (1) does not apply to an exchange 
        that the Secretaries determine would further the protective 
        purposes of the Monument.
    (h) Prohibition on Renewable Energy Generation Facilities.--
Development of renewable energy generation facilities (excluding 
rights-of-way or facilities for the transmission of energy and 
telecommunication facilities and infrastructure) is prohibited within 
the Monument.
    (i) Access to Renewable Energy and Energy Transport Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--On a determination by the Secretaries that 
        no reasonable alternative access exists and subject to 
        paragraph (2), the Secretaries may allow new rights-of-way 
        within the Monument to provide reasonable vehicular access to 
        renewable energy project sites and appurtenant energy transport 
        facilities outside the boundaries of the Monument.
            (2) Restrictions.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        rights-of-way shall be designed and sited to be consistent with 
        the purposes of the Monument described in section 702(b).

SEC. 705. ACQUISITION OF LAND.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries may acquire for inclusion in the 
Monument any land or interests in land within the boundary of the 
Monument owned by the State, units of local government, Indian tribes, 
nonprofit organizations, private individuals, or any other landowner 
only by--
            (1) donation;
            (2) exchange with a willing party; or
            (3) purchase from a willing seller.
    (b) Use of Easements.--To the maximum extent practicable and only 
with the approval of the landowner, the Secretaries may use permanent 
conservation easements to acquire an interest in land in the Monument 
rather than acquiring fee simple title to the land.
    (c) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests in Land.--Any land 
or interest in land within the boundaries of the Monument that is 
acquired by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act 
shall be added to and administered as part of the Monument.
    (d) Donated and Acquired Land.--
            (1) In general.--All land within the boundary of the 
        Monument donated to the United States or acquired using amounts 
        from the land and water conservation fund established under 
        section 200302 of title 54, United States Code, before, on, or 
        after the date of enactment of this Act--
                    (A) is withdrawn from mineral entry; and
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with sections 
                703 and 704 consistent with the purposes of the 
                Monument described in section 702(b).
            (2) Effect on monument.--Land within the boundary of the 
        Monument that is contiguous to land donated to the United 
        States or acquired through purchase or exchange shall be 
        managed in a manner consistent with conservation purposes, 
        subject to applicable law.

SEC. 706. ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries shall establish an advisory 
committee for the Monument, the purpose of which is to advise the 
Secretaries with respect to the preparation and implementation of the 
management plan required by section 703(g).
    (b) Membership.--To the maximum extent practicable, the advisory 
committee shall include the following members, to be appointed by the 
Secretaries:
            (1) A representative with expertise in natural science and 
        research selected from a regional institution of higher 
        education or research.
            (2) A representative of the Department of Defense.
            (3) A representative of the California Natural Resources 
        Agency.
            (4) A representative of each of San Bernardino and 
        Riverside Counties, California.
            (5) A representative of each of the cities of Banning, 
        Desert Hot Springs and Yucca Valley, California.
            (6) A representative of the San Manuel Band of Serrano 
        Mission Indians.
            (7) A representative of the Morongo Band of Mission 
        Indians.
            (8) A representative of the Friends of Big Morongo 
        Preserve.
            (9) A representative of The Wildlands Conservancy.
            (10) A representative of the Coachella Valley Mountains 
        Conservancy.
            (11) A representative of the San Gorgonio Wilderness 
        Association.
            (12) A representative of the Morongo Valley Community 
        Services District.
            (13) A representative of organizations relating to each of 
        the following recreational activities:
                    (A) Off-highway vehicles.
                    (B) Hunting.
                    (C) Rockhounding.
            (14) A representative of the Southern California Edison 
        Company.
            (15) A representative of the Metropolitan Water District.
            (16) A representative of Banning Heights Mutual Water 
        Company.
            (17) A representative of the Society for the Conservation 
        of Bighorn Sheep.
            (18) A representative of the Bighorn Sheep Preservation 
        Group.
    (c) Terms.--
            (1) In general.--In appointing members under subsection 
        (b), the Secretaries shall appoint 1 primary member and 1 
        alternate member who meets the qualifications described in each 
        of those paragraphs.
            (2) Vacancy.--
                    (A) Primary member.--A vacancy on the advisory 
                committee with respect to a primary member shall be 
                filled by the applicable alternate member.
                    (B) Alternate member.--The Secretaries shall 
                appoint a new alternate member in the event of a 
                vacancy with respect to an alternate member of the 
                advisory committee.
            (3) Termination.--
                    (A) In general.--The term of all members of the 
                advisory committee shall terminate on the termination 
                of the advisory committee under subsection (g).
                    (B) New advisory committee.--The Secretaries may 
                establish a new advisory committee on the termination 
                of the advisory committee under subsection (g) to 
                provide ongoing recommendations on the management of 
                the Monument.
    (d) Quorum.--A quorum of the advisory committee shall consist of a 
majority of the primary members.
    (e) Chairperson and Procedures.--
            (1) In general.--The advisory committee shall select a 
        chairperson and vice chairperson from among the primary members 
        of the advisory committee.
            (2) Duties.--The chairperson and vice chairperson selected 
        under paragraph (1) shall establish any rules and procedures 
        for the advisory committee that the chairperson and vice 
        chairperson determine to be necessary or desirable.
    (f) Service Without Compensation.--Members of the advisory 
committee shall serve without pay.
    (g) Termination.--The advisory committee shall cease to exist on--
            (1) the date on which the management plan is officially 
        adopted by the Secretaries; or
            (2) such later date as the Secretaries may specify.

SEC. 707. WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES.

    Nothing in this title shall be construed to affect, restrict, or 
prevent the installation of wireless communications facilities in the 
Monument within the area depicted as ``Morongo Gorge'' on the map.

   TITLE VIII--LAND CONVEYANCES, WITHDRAWALS, AND RELATED PROVISIONS

SEC. 801. RELEASE OF FEDERAL REVERSIONARY LAND INTERESTS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) 1932 act.--The term ``1932 Act'' means the Act of June 
        18, 1932 (47 Stat. 324, chapter 270).
            (2) District.--The term ``District'' means the Metropolitan 
        Water District of Southern California.
    (b) Release.--Subject to valid existing claims perfected prior to 
the effective date of the 1932 Act and the reservation of minerals set 
forth in the 1932 Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall release, 
convey, or otherwise quitclaim to the District, in a form recordable in 
local county records, and subject to the approval of the District, 
after consultation and without monetary consideration, all right, 
title, and remaining interest of the United States in and to the land 
that was conveyed to the District pursuant to the 1932 Act or any other 
law authorizing conveyance subject to restrictions or reversionary 
interests retained by the United States, on request by the District.
    (c) Terms and Conditions.--A conveyance authorized by subsection 
(b) shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
            (1) The District shall cover, or reimburse the Secretary of 
        the Interior for, the costs incurred by the Secretary to make 
        the conveyance, including title searches, surveys, deed 
        preparation, attorneys' fees, and similar expenses.
            (2) By accepting the conveyances, the District agrees to 
        indemnify and hold harmless the United States with regard to 
        any boundary dispute relating to any parcel conveyed under this 
        section.

SEC. 802. CALIFORNIA STATE SCHOOL LAND.

    Section 707 of the California Desert Protection Act of 1994 (16 
U.S.C. 410aaa-77) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the first sentence--
                            (i) by striking ``Upon request of the 
                        California State Lands Commission (hereinafter 
                        in this section referred to as the 
                        `Commission'), the Secretary shall enter into 
                        negotiations for an agreement'' and inserting 
                        the following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall negotiate in good 
        faith to reach an agreement with the California State Lands 
        Commission (referred to in this section as the `Commission')''; 
        and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, national monuments,'' 
                        after ``more of the wilderness areas''; and
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``The 
                Secretary shall negotiate in good faith to'' and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(2) Agreement.--To the maximum extent practicable, not 
        later than 10 years after the date of enactment of this title, 
        the Secretary shall'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting ``, national 
        monuments,'' after ``wilderness areas''; and
            (3) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) Special deposit fund account.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Assembled land exchanges may be 
                used to carry out this section through the sale of 
                surplus Federal property and subsequent acquisitions of 
                State school land.
                    ``(B) Receipts.--Past and future receipts from the 
                sale of property described in subsection (a), less any 
                costs incurred related to the sale, shall be deposited 
                in a Special Deposit Fund Account established in the 
                Treasury.
                    ``(C) Use.--Funds accumulated in the Special 
                Deposit Fund Account may be used by the Secretary, 
                without an appropriation, to acquire State school lands 
                or interest in the land consistent with this 
                section.''.

SEC. 803. JUNIPER FLATS.

    Development of renewable energy generation facilities (excluding 
rights-of-way or facilities for the transmission of energy and 
telecommunication facilities and infrastructure) is prohibited on the 
approximately 28,000 acres of Federal land generally depicted as ``BLM 
Land Withdrawn from Energy Development and Power Generation'' on the 
map entitled ``Juniper Flats'' and dated September 21, 2015.

SEC. 804. LAND EXCHANGE, SAN GORGONIO WILDERNESS, CALIFORNIA DESERT 
              CONSERVATION AREA, BUREAU OF LAND MANAGEMENT, AND SAN 
              BERNARDINO NATIONAL FOREST, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Forest Service Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of 
Agriculture may convey to Stephen Mascaro (in this section referred to 
as the ``recipient''), all right, title, and interest of the United 
States in and to a parcel of National Forest System land within San 
Bernardino National Forest in the State of California, consisting of 
approximately 638 acres, as depicted on the map titled ``Proposed Sand 
to Snow National Monument Forest Service Land Exchange'' and dated June 
10, 2015, in exchange for a parcel of private land consisting of 
approximately 632 acres, as also depicted on such map.
    (b) Bureau of Land Management Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary 
of the Interior may convey to the recipient all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to a parcel of public land within 
the San Gorgonio Wilderness of the California Desert Conservation Area 
in the State of California, consisting of approximately 645 acres, as 
depicted on the map titled ``Proposed Sand to Snow National Monument 
Bureau of Land Management Land Exchange'' and dated June 23, 2015, in 
exchange for a parcel of private land consisting of approximately 953 
acres, as also depicted on such map.
    (c) Existing Rights.--The conveyance of the Federal land under this 
section shall be subject to valid existing rights.
    (d) Exchange Process.--The Secretaries shall carry out the land 
exchanges authorized by this section in the manner provided in section 
206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1716) and subject to the terms and conditions of such section and 
regulations promulgated to implement such section.
    (e) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) Required.--As soon as practicable after completion of 
        the land exchange authorized by subsection (a), the Secretary 
        of Agriculture shall file with the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a map and legal 
        description of the Federal land and private land exchanged 
        under such subsection. As soon as practicable after completion 
        of the land exchange authorized by subsection (b), the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall file with such committees a map 
        and legal description of the Federal land and private land 
        exchanged under such subsection.
            (2) Force and effect.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect 
        as if included in this Act, except that the Secretary concerned 
        may correct clerical and typographical errors in a map and 
        description.
            (3) Public inspection.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
        appropriate offices of the Secretary concerned.

SEC. 805. CONVEYANCE FOR APPLE VALLEY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE RECREATION 
              AREA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Town.--The term ``Town'' means the town of Apple 
        Valley, California.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Conveyance to Town of Apple Valley'' and dated June 1, 2015.
    (b) Conveyance of Federal Land to Town.--
            (1) Conveyance required.--Within five years after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall convey to the Town, without consideration, all right, 
        title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface 
        estate of approximately 4,630 acres of land depicted on the Map 
        as ``Proposed Conveyance Area''.
            (2) Existing rights and mineral estate.--The conveyance 
        under this subsection--
                    (A) is subject to valid existing rights; and
                    (B) does not include the mineral estate.
    (c) Use of Conveyed Land.--
            (1) In general.--The land conveyed under subsection (b) may 
        be used by the Town for any public purpose authorized in 
        paragraph (2), consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 
        (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act; 43 
        U.S.C. 869 et seq.).
            (2) Authorized purposes.--The purposes of the conveyance 
        under subsection (b) are to permit the Town to use the conveyed 
        land--
                    (A) to provide a suitable location for the 
                establishment of a centralized off-road vehicle 
                recreation park;
                    (B) to provide the public with opportunities for 
                off-road vehicle recreation, including a location for 
                races, competitive events, training and other 
                commercial services that directly support a centralized 
                off-road vehicle recreation area and Town park; and
                    (C) to provide a designated area and facilities 
                that would discourage unauthorized use of off-highway 
                vehicles in areas that have been identified by the 
                Federal Government, the State of California, or the 
                County as containing environmentally sensitive land.
            (3) Disposal prohibited.--The land conveyed under 
        subsection (b) may not be disposed of by the Town without the 
        approval of the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Temporary Reversionary Interest.--During the five-year period 
beginning on the date of the conveyance of the land under subsection 
(b), if the Secretary of the Interior determines that the Town has 
disposed of the conveyed land in violation of subsection (c)(3) or has 
failed to establish the off-road vehicle recreation park, title to the 
land shall revert to the United States, at the option of the Secretary. 
At the end of the five-year period, the Secretary shall release the 
reversionary interest.
    (e) Designation of Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
Area.--The land identified on the Map as ``Proposed Conveyance Area'' 
and conveyed under this section shall be known and designated as the 
``Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area''.
    (f) Management Plan.--The Secretary may develop a special 
management plan for the Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation 
Area to enhance the safe use of off-highway vehicles for recreational 
purposes.

SEC. 806. CONVEYANCE TO CITY OF TWENTYNINE PALMS, CALIFORNIA.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Twentynine 
        Palms, California.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Conveyance to Twentynine Palms'' and dated September 
        18, 2015.
    (b) Conveyance of Federal Land to City.--
            (1) Conveyance required.--Within one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        convey to the City, without consideration, all right, title, 
        and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate 
        of the land depicted on the Map as ``Proposed Conveyance to 
        Twentynine Palms''.
            (2) Existing rights and mineral estate.--The conveyance 
        under this subsection--
                    (A) is subject to valid existing rights; and
                    (B) does not include the mineral estate.

SEC. 807. CONVERSION OF VALID, EXISTING RIGHTS.

    (a) Continuity of Use.--Any person claiming in good faith to have 
valid, existing rights to lands to be exchanged or conveyed in this 
Act, including but not limited to Southern California Edison Company, 
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, and Southern California Gas Company, 
may continue to exercise such rights to the same extent that the rights 
were exercised before the date of the enactment of this Act until the 
Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, depending on 
jurisdiction over the lands involved, makes a determination on 
applications submitted under subsection (b)(2) or the applications are 
deemed to be granted under subsection (c)(2).
    (b) Notice and Applications.--Consistent with sections 2800 through 
2880 of title 43, Code of Federal Regulations, as soon as practicable 
after the date of the enactment of this Act and prior to any exchange 
or conveyance of lands under this Act, the Secretary of the Interior or 
the Secretary of Agriculture, depending on jurisdiction over the lands 
involved, shall provide written notice to any person that claims to 
have valid, existing rights, such as a management agreement, easement, 
or other right-of-way, to lands to be exchanged or conveyed that--
            (1) the lands are to be exchanged or conveyed; and
            (2) the person claiming the valid, existing rights has 60 
        days to submit an application to the Secretary concerned 
        requesting that the valid, existing rights be converted to a 
        long-term easement or other right-of-way.
    (c) Determination.--
            (1) Determination required; deadline.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, depending on 
        jurisdiction over the lands involved, shall grant or deny an 
        application submitted under subsection (b)(2) before the end of 
        the 180-day period beginning on the date on which the 
        application is received. The Secretary's determination shall be 
        considered a final action.
            (2) Effect of failure to meet deadline.--If the Secretary 
        of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture fails to make 
        the required determination on an application under paragraph 
        (1) before the end of the period specified in such paragraph, 
        that application shall be deemed to be granted. The Secretary 
        concerned shall take such steps as may be necessary to convert 
        the valid, existing rights to a long-term easement or other 
        right-of-way.

                   TITLE IX--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 901. TRIBAL USES AND INTERESTS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``designated area'' 
means any land designated as wilderness, a special management area, a 
wild or scenic river, an area of critical environmental concern, a 
national monument, or an addition to a unit of the National Park System 
under this Act.
    (b) Access.--The Secretary of the Interior shall ensure that 
members of Indian tribes have access to designated areas for 
traditional cultural and religious purposes, consistent with applicable 
law, including Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the American Indian 
Religious Freedom Act; 42 U.S.C. 1996).
    (c) Temporary Closure.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with applicable law, 
        including Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as the American 
        Indian Religious Freedom Act; 42 U.S.C. 1996), and subject to 
        paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Interior, on request of an 
        Indian tribe or Indian religious community, shall temporarily 
        close to general public use any portion of a designated area to 
        protect the privacy of traditional cultural and religious 
        activities in the designated area by members of the Indian 
        tribe or Indian religious community.
            (2) Limitation.--In closing a portion of a designated area 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall limit the closure to 
        the smallest practicable area for the minimum period necessary 
        for the traditional cultural and religious activities.
    (d) Tribal Cultural Resources Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        develop and implement a tribal cultural resources management 
        plan to identify, protect, and conserve cultural resources of 
        Indian tribes associated with the Xam Kwatchan Trail network 
        extending from Avikwaame (Spirit Mountain, Nevada) to Avikwlal 
        (Pilot Knob, California).
            (2) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult on the 
        development and implementation of the tribal cultural resources 
        management plan under paragraph (1) with--
                    (A) each of--
                            (i) the Chemehuevi Indian Tribe;
                            (ii) the Hualapai Tribal Nation;
                            (iii) the Fort Mojave Indian Tribe;
                            (iv) the Colorado River Indian Tribes;
                            (v) the Quechan Indian Tribe; and
                            (vi) the Cocopah Indian Tribe; and
                    (B) the Advisory Council on Historic Preservation.
            (3) Resource protection.--The tribal cultural resources 
        management plan developed under paragraph (1) shall--
                    (A) be based on a completed tribal cultural 
                resources survey; and
                    (B) include procedures for identifying, protecting, 
                and preserving petroglyphs, ancient trails, intaglios, 
                sleeping circles, artifacts, and other resources of 
                cultural, archaeological, or historical significance in 
                accordance with all applicable laws and policies, 
                including--
                            (i) chapter 2003 of title 54, United States 
                        Code;
                            (ii) Public Law 95-341 (commonly known as 
                        the American Indian Religious Freedom Act; 42 
                        U.S.C. 1996);
                            (iii) the Archaeological Resources 
                        Protection Act of 1979 (16 U.S.C. 470aa et 
                        seq.);
                            (iv) the Native American Graves Protection 
                        and Repatriation Act (25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.); 
                        and
                            (v) Public Law 103-141 (commonly known as 
                        the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993; 
                        42 U.S.C. 2000bb et seq.).
    (e) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal land 
within the area administratively withdrawn and known as the ``Indian 
Pass Withdrawal Area'' is permanently withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) right-of-way leasing and disposition under all laws 
        relating to minerals or solar, wind, or geothermal energy.

SEC. 902. MILITARY ACTIVITIES.

    Nothing in this Act--
            (1) restricts or precludes Department of Defense motorized 
        access by land or air--
                    (A) to respond to an emergency within a wilderness 
                area or wilderness addition designated by this Act; or
                    (B) to control access to the emergency site;
            (2) prevents nonmechanized military training activities 
        previously conducted on the public lands designated as a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition by this Act that are 
        consistent with--
                    (A) the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.); 
                and
                    (B) all applicable laws (including regulations);
            (3) restricts, precludes, limits, or prevents low-level 
        overflights of military aircraft over a wilderness area or 
        wilderness addition designated by this Act, the Mojave Trails 
        Special Management Area, a Monument created by this Act, or an 
        off-highway vehicle recreation area established by this Act, 
        including military overflights that can be seen or heard within 
        the designated areas;
            (4) restricts, precludes, limits, or prevents flight 
        testing and evaluation in the areas described in paragraph (3); 
        or
            (5) restricts, precludes, limits, or prevents the 
        designation or creation of new units of special use airspace, 
        or the establishment of military flight training routes, over 
        the areas described in paragraph (3).

SEC. 903. DEED RESTRICTIONS ON DONATED LAND WITHIN THE CALIFORNIA 
              DESERT CONSERVATION AREA.

    Effective beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, within 
the California Desert Conservation Area, the Secretary of the Interior 
may--
            (1) accept deed restrictions requested by landowners for 
        land donated to, or otherwise acquired by, the United States; 
        and
            (2) consistent with existing rights, create deed 
        restrictions, easements, or other third-party rights relating 
        to any public land determined by the Secretary to be 
        necessary--
                    (A) to fulfill the mitigation requirements 
                resulting from the development of renewable resources 
                or to otherwise support the development of renewable 
                resources; or
                    (B) to satisfy the conditions of--
                            (i) a habitat conservation plan or general 
                        conservation plan established pursuant to 
                        section 10 of the Endangered Species Act of 
                        1973 (16 U.S.C. 1539); or
                            (ii) a natural communities conservation 
                        plan approved by the State.

SEC. 904. WILDLIFE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this Act shall affect or diminish the 
jurisdiction of the California Department of Fish and Wildlife with 
respect to fish and wildlife management or conservation, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping, with respect to any 
wilderness, special management area, or national monument designated by 
this Act.
    (b) Management Activities.--
            (1) In general.--In furtherance of the purposes and 
        principles of the Wilderness Act, management activities to 
        maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations and the 
        habitats to support such populations shall be permitted on 
        lands designated as wilderness by this Act when consistent with 
        wildlife conservation objectives of the California Department 
        of Fish and Wildlife in accordance with appropriate policies 
        such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, 
        including the occasional and temporary use of motorized 
        vehicles, mechanical equipment, and aircraft when such use will 
        enhance the existence of or promote healthy, viable, and more 
        naturally distributed wildlife populations as determined by the 
        California Department of Fish and Wildlife, which holds the 
        public trust responsibility for wildlife conservation and that 
        would enhance wilderness values and accomplish those purposes 
        with the minimum impact necessary to reasonably accomplish the 
        task.
            (2) Applicability to additional lands.--This subsection 
        also shall apply to each of those wilderness areas established 
        by the California Desert Protection Act of 1994, including 
        wilderness areas established within the Mojave National 
        Preserve, and any public lands that were transferred to the 
        units of the National Park System known as Death Valley 
        National Park and Joshua Tree National Park to increase the 
        size of those units.
    (c) Existing Activities.--Consistent with section 4(d)(1) of the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)) and in accordance with appropriate 
policies such as those set forth in Appendix B of House Report 101-405, 
the California Department of Fish and Wildlife and its agents shall 
have the authority to continue to use aircraft and other motorized 
equipment, including helicopters, to survey, capture, transplant, 
monitor, and provide water for wildlife populations, including bighorn 
sheep.
    (d) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        authorize additional structures and facilities, as well as the 
        continued presence of existing anthropomorphic structures and 
        facilities, for wildlife water development projects where 
        determined necessary to benefit wildlife by the California 
        Department of Fish and Wildlife in the wilderness areas and the 
        national monuments created by this Act.
            (2) Applicability to additional lands.--This subsection 
        shall also apply to those wilderness areas established by the 
        California Desert Protection Act of 1994, as well as in those 
        expanded areas of Death Valley National Park and Joshua Tree 
        National Park that formerly were administered by the Bureau of 
        Land Management, and to the national monuments and all special 
        management areas established by this Act and within the Mojave 
        National Preserve if--
                    (A) the structures and facilities will enhance, as 
                determined by the California Department of Fish and 
                Wildlife, the wilderness values or values of the 
                national monuments or special management areas, as the 
                case may be, by promoting healthy, viable and more 
                naturally distributed wildlife populations; and
                    (B) the visual impacts of the structures and 
                facilities on the areas are minimized.

SEC. 905. LIMITATION ON EXTENSION OR ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL 
              MONUMENTS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``designated area'' 
means any land designated as an off-highway vehicle recreation area 
under title I, a special management area under title VI or VII, or a 
future addition to the Mojave National Preserve under section 303.
    (b) Limitation.--No extension or establishment of any national 
monument that would include any designated area may be undertaken by 
the President under section 320301 of title 54, United States Code 
(commonly known as the Antiquities Act of 1906), except by express 
authorization of Congress.

SEC. 906. CATEGORICAL EXCLUSION FOR EASTERN INYO COUNTY BROADBAND 
              CORRIDOR.

    Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a project to install 
and operate a fiberoptic cable by Inyo County, California, along a 
route generally depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Eastern Inyo 
Broadband Corridor'' and dated September 28, 2015, shall be eligible 
for a categorical exclusion (as defined in section 1508.4 of title 40, 
Code of Federal Regulations) for purposes of the National Environmental 
Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
                                 <all>
