[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2406 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 2406

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, 
                 and shooting, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Sportsmen's Heritage and 
Recreational Enhancement Act'' or the ``SHARE Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Report on economic impact.
   TITLE I--HUNTING, FISHING AND RECREATIONAL SHOOTING PROTECTION ACT

Sec. 101. Short title.
Sec. 102. Modification of definition.
Sec. 103. Limitation on authority to regulate ammunition and fishing 
                            tackle.
    TITLE II--TARGET PRACTICE AND MARKSMANSHIP TRAINING SUPPORT ACT

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Findings; purpose.
Sec. 203. Definition of public target range.
Sec. 204. Amendments to Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act.
Sec. 205. Limits on liability.
Sec. 206. Sense of Congress regarding cooperation.
          TITLE III--POLAR BEAR CONSERVATION AND FAIRNESS ACT

Sec. 301. Short title.
Sec. 302.  Permits for importation of polar bear trophies taken in 
                            sport hunts in Canada.
             TITLE IV--RECREATIONAL LANDS SELF-DEFENSE ACT

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Protecting Americans from violent crime.
 TITLE V--WILDLIFE AND HUNTING HERITAGE CONSERVATION COUNCIL ADVISORY 
                               COMMITTEE

Sec. 501. Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council Advisory 
                            Committee.
 TITLE VI--RECREATIONAL FISHING AND HUNTING HERITAGE OPPORTUNITIES ACT

Sec. 601. Short title.
Sec. 602. Findings.
Sec. 603. Fishing, hunting, and recreational shooting.
Sec. 604. Volunteer Hunters; Reports; Closures and Restrictions.
              TITLE VII--FARMER AND HUNTER PROTECTION ACT

Sec. 701. Short title.
Sec. 702. Baiting of migratory game birds.
    TITLE VIII--TRANSPORTING BOWS ACROSS NATIONAL PARK SERVICE LANDS

Sec. 801. Short title.
Sec. 802. Bowhunting opportunity and wildlife stewardship.
  TITLE IX--FEDERAL LAND TRANSACTION FACILITATION ACT REAUTHORIZATION 
                                (FLTFA)

Sec. 901. Short title.
Sec. 902. Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act.
 TITLE X--AFRICAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION AND LEGAL IVORY POSSESSION ACT

Sec. 1001. Short title.
Sec. 1002. References.
Sec. 1003. Limited exemption for certain African elephant ivory.
Sec. 1004. Placement of United States Fish and Wildlife Service law 
                            enforcement officers in each African 
                            elephant range country.
Sec. 1005.  Certification for the purposes of the Fishermen's 
                            Protective Act of 1967.
Sec. 1006. Treatment of elephant ivory.
Sec. 1007. Sport-hunted elephant trophies.
Sec. 1008. African Elephant Conservation Act financial assistance 
                            priority and reauthorization.
Sec. 1009. Government Accountability Office study.
               TITLE XI--RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND RIGHTS

Sec. 1101. Respect for Treaties and Rights.
        TITLE XII--PERMITS FOR FILM CREWS OF FIVE PEOPLE OR LESS

Sec. 1201. Annual permit and fee for film crews of 5 persons or fewer.
           TITLE XIII--STATE APPROVAL OF FISHING RESTRICTION

Sec. 1301. State or Territorial Approval of Restriction of Recreational 
                            or Commercial Fishing Access to Certain 
                            State or Territorial Waters.
  TITLE XIV--HUNTING AND RECREATIONAL FISHING WITHIN CERTAIN NATIONAL 
                                FORESTS

Sec. 1401. Definitions.
Sec. 1402. Hunting and recreational fishing within the national forest 
                            system.
Sec. 1403. Publication of Closure of Roads in Forests.
              TITLE XV--GRAND CANYON BISON MANAGEMENT ACT

Sec. 1501. Short title.
Sec. 1502. Definitions.
Sec. 1503. Bison management plan for Grand Canyon National Park.
            TITLE XVI--OPEN BOOK ON EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE

Sec. 1601. Short title.
Sec. 1602. Modification of equal access to justice provisions.
                  TITLE XVII--UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES

Sec. 1701. Utility terrain vehicles in Kisatchie National Forest.
            TITLE XVIII--GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH AND RECOVERY

Sec. 1801. Short title.
Sec. 1802. Expedited access to certain Federal land.
     TITLE XIX--INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF FIREARMS OR AMMUNITION

Sec. 1901. Interstate transportation of firearms or ammunition.
                         TITLE XX--GRAY WOLVES

Sec. 2001. Reissuance of final rule regarding gray wolves in the 
                            Western Great Lakes.
Sec. 2002. Reissuance of final rule regarding gray wolves in Wyoming.
                  TITLE XXI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 2101.  Prohibition on issuance of final rule.
Sec. 2102. Withdrawal of existing rule regarding hunting and trapping 
                            in Alaska.

SEC. 3. REPORT ON ECONOMIC IMPACT.

    Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Interior shall submit a report to Congress that 
assesses expected economic impacts of the Act. Such report shall 
include--
            (1) a review of any expected increases in recreational 
        hunting, fishing, shooting, and conservation activities;
            (2) an estimate of any jobs created in each industry 
        expected to support such activities described in paragraph (1), 
        including in the supply, manufacturing, distribution, and 
        retail sectors;
            (3) an estimate of wages related to jobs described in 
        paragraph (2); and
            (4) an estimate of anticipated new local, State, and 
        Federal revenue related to jobs described in paragraph (2).

   TITLE I--HUNTING, FISHING AND RECREATIONAL SHOOTING PROTECTION ACT

SEC. 101. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Hunting, Fishing, and Recreational 
Shooting Protection Act''.

SEC. 102. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION.

    Section 3(2)(B) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
2602(2)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (v), by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``, 
        or any component of any such article including, without 
        limitation, shot, bullets and other projectiles, propellants, 
        and primers,'';
            (2) in clause (vi) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``, and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (vi) the following:
            ``(vii) any sport fishing equipment (as such term is 
        defined in subsection (a) of section 4162 of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986) the sale of which is subject to the tax 
        imposed by section 4161(a) of such Code (determined without 
        regard to any exemptions from such tax as provided by section 
        4162 or 4221 or any other provision of such Code), and sport 
        fishing equipment components.''.

SEC. 103. LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO REGULATE AMMUNITION AND FISHING 
              TACKLE.

    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in section 20.21 of title 50, 
Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, or any substantially similar successor regulation thereto, 
the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and, 
except as provided by subsection (b), any bureau, service, or office of 
the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture, may 
not regulate the use of ammunition cartridges, ammunition components, 
or fishing tackle based on the lead content thereof if such use is in 
compliance with the law of the State in which the use occurs.
    (b) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not apply to 
the United States Fish and Wildlife Service or the National Park 
Service.

    TITLE II--TARGET PRACTICE AND MARKSMANSHIP TRAINING SUPPORT ACT

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Target Practice and Marksmanship 
Training Support Act''.

SEC. 202. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the use of firearms and archery equipment for target 
        practice and marksmanship training activities on Federal land 
        is allowed, except to the extent specific portions of that land 
        have been closed to those activities;
            (2) in recent years preceding the date of enactment of this 
        Act, portions of Federal land have been closed to target 
        practice and marksmanship training for many reasons;
            (3) the availability of public target ranges on non-Federal 
        land has been declining for a variety of reasons, including 
        continued population growth and development near former ranges;
            (4) providing opportunities for target practice and 
        marksmanship training at public target ranges on Federal and 
        non-Federal land can help--
                    (A) to promote enjoyment of shooting, recreational, 
                and hunting activities; and
                    (B) to ensure safe and convenient locations for 
                those activities;
            (5) Federal law in effect on the date of enactment of this 
        Act, including the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 669 et seq.), provides Federal support for 
        construction and expansion of public target ranges by making 
        available to States amounts that may be used for construction, 
        operation, and maintenance of public target ranges; and
            (6) it is in the public interest to provide increased 
        Federal support to facilitate the construction or expansion of 
        public target ranges.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this title is to facilitate the 
construction and expansion of public target ranges, including ranges on 
Federal land managed by the Forest Service and the Bureau of Land 
Management.

SEC. 203. DEFINITION OF PUBLIC TARGET RANGE.

    In this title, the term ``public target range'' means a specific 
location that--
            (1) is identified by a governmental agency for recreational 
        shooting;
            (2) is open to the public;
            (3) may be supervised; and
            (4) may accommodate archery or rifle, pistol, or shotgun 
        shooting.

SEC. 204. AMENDMENTS TO PITTMAN-ROBERTSON WILDLIFE RESTORATION ACT.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 2 of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife 
Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 669a) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (3) through (9), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) the term `public target range' means a specific 
        location that--
                    ``(A) is identified by a governmental agency for 
                recreational shooting;
                    ``(B) is open to the public;
                    ``(C) may be supervised; and
                    ``(D) may accommodate archery or rifle, pistol, or 
                shotgun shooting;''.
    (b) Expenditures for Management of Wildlife Areas and Resources.--
Section 8(b) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 
U.S.C. 669g(b)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(b) Each State'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(b) Expenditures for Management of Wildlife Areas and 
Resources.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        each State'';
            (2) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking 
        ``construction, operation,'' and inserting ``operation'';
            (3) in the second sentence, by striking ``The non-Federal 
        share'' and inserting the following:
            ``(3) Non-federal share.--The non-Federal share'';
            (4) in the third sentence, by striking ``The Secretary'' 
        and inserting the following:
            ``(4) Regulations.--The Secretary''; and
            (5) by inserting after paragraph (1) (as designated by 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection) the following:
            ``(2) Exception.--Notwithstanding the limitation described 
        in paragraph (1), a State may pay up to 90 percent of the cost 
        of acquiring land for, expanding, or constructing a public 
        target range.''.
    (c) Firearm and Bow Hunter Education and Safety Program Grants.--
Section 10 of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 U.S.C. 
669h-1) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Allocation of additional amounts.--Of the amount 
        apportioned to a State for any fiscal year under section 4(b), 
        the State may elect to allocate not more than 10 percent, to be 
        combined with the amount apportioned to the State under 
        paragraph (1) for that fiscal year, for acquiring land for, 
        expanding, or constructing a public target range.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Cost Sharing.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out using a 
        grant under this section shall not exceed 75 percent of the 
        total cost of the activity.
            ``(2) Public target range construction or expansion.--The 
        Federal share of the cost of acquiring land for, expanding, or 
        constructing a public target range in a State on Federal or 
        non-Federal land pursuant to this section or section 8(b) shall 
        not exceed 90 percent of the cost of the activity.''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Amounts made'' and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), amounts made''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Exception.--Amounts provided for acquiring 
                land for, constructing, or expanding a public target 
                range shall remain available for expenditure and 
                obligation during the 5-fiscal-year period beginning on 
                October 1 of the first fiscal year for which the 
                amounts are made available.''.

SEC. 205. LIMITS ON LIABILITY.

    (a) Discretionary Function.--For purposes of chapter 171 of title 
28, United States Code (commonly referred to as the ``Federal Tort 
Claims Act''), any action by an agent or employee of the United States 
to manage or allow the use of Federal land for purposes of target 
practice or marksmanship training by a member of the public shall be 
considered to be the exercise or performance of a discretionary 
function.
    (b) Civil Action or Claims.--Except to the extent provided in 
chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code, the United States shall 
not be subject to any civil action or claim for money damages for any 
injury to or loss of property, personal injury, or death caused by an 
activity occurring at a public target range that is--
            (1) funded in whole or in part by the Federal Government 
        pursuant to the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act (16 
        U.S.C. 669 et seq.); or
            (2) located on Federal land.

SEC. 206. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING COOPERATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that, consistent with applicable laws 
and regulations, the Chief of the Forest Service and the Director of 
the Bureau of Land Management should cooperate with State and local 
authorities and other entities to carry out waste removal and other 
activities on any Federal land used as a public target range to 
encourage continued use of that land for target practice or 
marksmanship training.

          TITLE III--POLAR BEAR CONSERVATION AND FAIRNESS ACT

SEC. 301. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Polar Bear Conservation and 
Fairness Act''.

SEC. 302. PERMITS FOR IMPORTATION OF POLAR BEAR TROPHIES TAKEN IN SPORT 
              HUNTS IN CANADA.

    Section 104(c)(5)(D) of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 
(16 U.S.C. 1374(c)(5)(D)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(D)(i) The Secretary of the Interior shall, expeditiously 
        after the expiration of the applicable 30-day period under 
        subsection (d)(2), issue a permit for the importation of any 
        polar bear part (other than an internal organ) from a polar 
        bear taken in a sport hunt in Canada to any person--
                    ``(I) who submits, with the permit application, 
                proof that the polar bear was legally harvested by the 
                person before February 18, 1997; or
                    ``(II) who has submitted, in support of a permit 
                application submitted before May 15, 2008, proof that 
                the polar bear was legally harvested by the person 
                before May 15, 2008, from a polar bear population from 
                which a sport-hunted trophy could be imported before 
                that date in accordance with section 18.30(i) of title 
                50, Code of Federal Regulations.
            ``(ii) The Secretary shall issue permits under clause 
        (i)(I) without regard to subparagraphs (A) and (C)(ii) of this 
        paragraph, subsection (d)(3), and sections 101 and 102. 
        Sections 101(a)(3)(B) and 102(b)(3) shall not apply to the 
        importation of any polar bear part authorized by a permit 
        issued under clause (i)(I). This clause shall not apply to 
        polar bear parts that were imported before June 12, 1997.
            ``(iii) The Secretary shall issue permits under clause 
        (i)(II) without regard to subparagraph (C)(ii) of this 
        paragraph or subsection (d)(3). Sections 101(a)(3)(B) and 
        102(b)(3) shall not apply to the importation of any polar bear 
        part authorized by a permit issued under clause (i)(II). This 
        clause shall not apply to polar bear parts that were imported 
        before the date of enactment of the Polar Bear Conservation and 
        Fairness Act.''.

             TITLE IV--RECREATIONAL LANDS SELF-DEFENSE ACT

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Recreational Lands Self-Defense 
Act''.

SEC. 402. PROTECTING AMERICANS FROM VIOLENT CRIME.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Second Amendment to the Constitution provides that 
        ``the right of the people to keep and bear Arms, shall not be 
        infringed''.
            (2) Section 327.13 of title 36, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, provides that, except in special circumstances, 
        ``possession of loaded firearms, ammunition, loaded projectile 
        firing devices, bows and arrows, crossbows, or other weapons is 
        prohibited'' at water resources development projects 
        administered by the Secretary of the Army.
            (3) The regulations described in paragraph (2) prevent 
        individuals complying with Federal and State laws from 
        exercising the second amendment rights of the individuals while 
        at such water resources development projects.
            (4) The Federal laws should make it clear that the second 
        amendment rights of an individual at a water resources 
        development project should not be infringed.
    (b) Protecting the Right of Individuals To Bear Arms at Water 
Resources Development Projects.--The Secretary of the Army shall not 
promulgate or enforce any regulation that prohibits an individual from 
possessing a firearm, including an assembled or functional firearm, at 
a water resources development project covered under section 327.0 of 
title 36, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of 
enactment of this Act), if--
            (1) the individual is not otherwise prohibited by law from 
        possessing the firearm; and
            (2) the possession of the firearm is in compliance with the 
        law of the State in which the water resources development 
        project is located.

 TITLE V--WILDLIFE AND HUNTING HERITAGE CONSERVATION COUNCIL ADVISORY 
                               COMMITTEE

SEC. 501. WILDLIFE AND HUNTING HERITAGE CONSERVATION COUNCIL ADVISORY 
              COMMITTEE.

    The Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act (16 U.S.C. 661 et seq.) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 10. WILDLIFE AND HUNTING HERITAGE CONSERVATION COUNCIL ADVISORY 
              COMMITTEE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Wildlife and 
Hunting Heritage Conservation Council Advisory Committee (in this 
section referred to as the `Advisory Committee') to advise the 
Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture on wildlife and habitat 
conservation, hunting, and recreational shooting.
    ``(b) Continuance and Abolishment of Existing Wildlife and Hunting 
Heritage Conservation Council.--The Wildlife and Hunting Heritage 
Conservation Council established pursuant to section 441 of the Revised 
Statutes (43 U.S.C. 1457), section 2 of the Fish and Wildlife Act of 
1956 (16 U.S.C. 742a), and other Acts applicable to specific bureaus of 
the Department of the Interior--
            ``(1) shall continue until the date of the first meeting of 
        the Wildlife and Hunting Heritage Conservation Council 
        established by the amendment made by subsection (a); and
            ``(2) is hereby abolished effective on that date.
    ``(c) Duties of the Advisory Committee.--The Advisory Committee 
shall advise the Secretaries with regard to--
            ``(1) implementation of Executive Order No. 13443: 
        Facilitation of Hunting Heritage and Wildlife Conservation, 
        which directs Federal agencies `to facilitate the expansion and 
        enhancement of hunting opportunities and the management of game 
        species and their habitat';
            ``(2) policies or programs to conserve and restore 
        wetlands, agricultural lands, grasslands, forest, and rangeland 
        habitats;
            ``(3) policies or programs to promote opportunities and 
        access to hunting and shooting sports on Federal lands;
            ``(4) policies or programs to recruit and retain new 
        hunters and shooters;
            ``(5) policies or programs that increase public awareness 
        of the importance of wildlife conservation and the social and 
        economic benefits of recreational hunting and shooting; and
            ``(6) policies or programs that encourage coordination 
        among the public, the hunting and shooting sports community, 
        wildlife conservation groups, and States, tribes, and the 
        Federal Government.
    ``(d) Membership.--
            ``(1) Appointment.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                consist of no more than 16 discretionary members and 8 
                ex officio members.
                    ``(B) Ex officio members.--The ex officio members 
                are--
                            ``(i) the Director of the United States 
                        Fish and Wildlife Service or a designated 
                        representative of the Director;
                            ``(ii) the Director of the Bureau of Land 
                        Management or a designated representative of 
                        the Director;
                            ``(iii) the Director of the National Park 
                        Service or a designated representative of the 
                        Director;
                            ``(iv) the Chief of the Forest Service or a 
                        designated representative of the Chief;
                            ``(v) the Chief of the Natural Resources 
                        Conservation Service or a designated 
                        representative of the Chief;
                            ``(vi) the Administrator of the Farm 
                        Service Agency or a designated representative 
                        of the Administrator;
                            ``(vii) the Executive Director of the 
                        Association of Fish and Wildlife Agencies; and
                            ``(viii) the Administrator of the Small 
                        Business Administration or designated 
                        representative.
                    ``(C) Discretionary members.--The discretionary 
                members shall be appointed jointly by the Secretaries 
                from at least one of each of the following:
                            ``(i) State fish and wildlife agencies.
                            ``(ii) Game bird hunting organizations.
                            ``(iii) Wildlife conservation 
                        organizations.
                            ``(iv) Big game hunting organizations.
                            ``(v) Waterfowl hunting organizations.
                            ``(vi) The tourism, outfitter, or guiding 
                        industry.
                            ``(vii) The firearms or ammunition 
                        manufacturing industry.
                            ``(viii) The hunting or shooting equipment 
                        retail industry.
                            ``(ix) Tribal resource management 
                        organizations.
                            ``(x) The agriculture industry.
                            ``(xi) The ranching industry.
                            ``(xii) Women's hunting and fishing 
                        advocacy, outreach, or education organization.
                            ``(xiii) Minority hunting and fishing 
                        advocacy, outreach, or education organization.
                            ``(xiv) Veterans service organization.
                    ``(D) Eligibility.--Prior to the appointment of the 
                discretionary members, the Secretaries shall determine 
                that all individuals nominated for appointment to the 
                Advisory Committee, and the organization each 
                individual represents, actively support and promote 
                sustainable-use hunting, wildlife conservation, and 
                recreational shooting.
            ``(2) Terms.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), members of the Advisory Committee 
                shall be appointed for a term of 4 years. Members shall 
                not be appointed for more than 3 consecutive or 
                nonconsecutive terms.
                    ``(B) Terms of initial appointees.--As designated 
                by the Secretary at the time of appointment, of the 
                members first appointed--
                            ``(i) 6 members shall be appointed for a 
                        term of 4 years;
                            ``(ii) 5 members shall be appointed for a 
                        term of 3 years; and
                            ``(iii) 5 members shall be appointed for a 
                        term of 2 years.
            ``(3) Preservation of public advisory status.--No 
        individual may be appointed as a discretionary member of the 
        Advisory Committee while serving as an officer or employee of 
        the Federal Government.
            ``(4) Vacancy and removal.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any vacancy on the Advisory 
                Committee shall be filled in the manner in which the 
                original appointment was made.
                    ``(B) Removal.--Advisory Committee members shall 
                serve at the discretion of the Secretaries and may be 
                removed at any time for good cause.
            ``(5) Continuation of service.--Each appointed member may 
        continue to serve after the expiration of the term of office to 
        which such member was appointed until a successor has been 
        appointed.
            ``(6) Chairperson.--The Chairperson of the Advisory 
        Committee shall be appointed for a 3-year term by the 
        Secretaries, jointly, from among the members of the Advisory 
        Committee. An individual may not be appointed as Chairperson 
        for more than 2 consecutive or nonconsecutive terms.
            ``(7) Pay and expenses.--Members of the Advisory Committee 
        shall serve without pay for such service, but each member of 
        the Advisory Committee may be reimbursed for travel and lodging 
        incurred through attending meetings of the Advisory Committee 
        approved subgroup meetings in the same amounts and under the 
        same conditions as Federal employees (in accordance with 
        section 5703 of title 5, United States Code).
            ``(8) Meetings.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                meet at the call of the Secretaries, the chairperson, 
                or a majority of the members, but not less frequently 
                than twice annually.
                    ``(B) Open meetings.--Each meeting of the Advisory 
                Committee shall be open to the public.
                    ``(C) Prior notice of meetings.--Timely notice of 
                each meeting of the Advisory Committee shall be 
                published in the Federal Register and be submitted to 
                trade publications and publications of general 
                circulation.
                    ``(D) Subgroups.--The Advisory Committee may 
                establish such workgroups or subgroups as it deems 
                necessary for the purpose of compiling information or 
                conducting research. However, such workgroups may not 
                conduct business without the direction of the Advisory 
                Committee and must report in full to the Advisory 
                Committee.
            ``(9) Quorum.--Nine members of the Advisory Committee shall 
        constitute a quorum.
    ``(e) Expenses.--The expenses of the Advisory Committee that the 
Secretaries determine to be reasonable and appropriate shall be paid by 
the Secretaries.
    ``(f) Administrative Support, Technical Services, and Advice.--A 
designated Federal Officer shall be jointly appointed by the 
Secretaries to provide to the Advisory Committee the administrative 
support, technical services, and advice that the Secretaries determine 
to be reasonable and appropriate.
    ``(g) Annual Report.--
            ``(1) Required.--Not later than September 30 of each year, 
        the Advisory Committee shall submit a report to the 
        Secretaries, the Committee on Natural Resources and the 
        Committee on Agriculture of the House of Representatives, and 
        the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee 
        on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. If 
        circumstances arise in which the Advisory Committee cannot meet 
        the September 30 deadline in any year, the Secretaries shall 
        advise the Chairpersons of each such Committee of the reasons 
        for such delay and the date on which the submission of the 
        report is anticipated.
            ``(2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        describe--
                    ``(A) the activities of the Advisory Committee 
                during the preceding year;
                    ``(B) the reports and recommendations made by the 
                Advisory Committee to the Secretaries during the 
                preceding year; and
                    ``(C) an accounting of actions taken by the 
                Secretaries as a result of the recommendations.
    ``(h) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Advisory Committee shall 
be exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).''.

 TITLE VI--RECREATIONAL FISHING AND HUNTING HERITAGE OPPORTUNITIES ACT

SEC. 601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Recreational Fishing and Hunting 
Heritage and Opportunities Act''.

SEC. 602. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds that--
            (1) recreational fishing and hunting are important and 
        traditional activities in which millions of Americans 
        participate;
            (2) recreational anglers and hunters have been and continue 
        to be among the foremost supporters of sound fish and wildlife 
        management and conservation in the United States;
            (3) recreational fishing and hunting are environmentally 
        acceptable and beneficial activities that occur and can be 
        provided on Federal lands and waters without adverse effects on 
        other uses or users;
            (4) recreational anglers, hunters, and sporting 
        organizations provide direct assistance to fish and wildlife 
        managers and enforcement officers of the Federal Government as 
        well as State and local governments by investing volunteer time 
        and effort to fish and wildlife conservation;
            (5) recreational anglers, hunters, and the associated 
        industries have generated billions of dollars of critical 
        funding for fish and wildlife conservation, research, and 
        management by providing revenues from purchases of fishing and 
        hunting licenses, permits, and stamps, as well as excise taxes 
        on fishing, hunting, and recreational shooting equipment that 
        have generated billions of dollars of critical funding for fish 
        and wildlife conservation, research, and management;
            (6) recreational shooting is also an important and 
        traditional activity in which millions of Americans 
        participate;
            (7) safe recreational shooting is a valid use of Federal 
        lands, including the establishment of safe and convenient 
        recreational shooting ranges on such lands, and participation 
        in recreational shooting helps recruit and retain hunters and 
        contributes to wildlife conservation;
            (8) opportunities to recreationally fish, hunt, and shoot 
        are declining, which depresses participation in these 
        traditional activities, and depressed participation adversely 
        impacts fish and wildlife conservation and funding for 
        important conservation efforts; and
            (9) the public interest would be served, and our citizens' 
        fish and wildlife resources benefitted, by action to ensure 
        that opportunities are facilitated to engage in fishing and 
        hunting on Federal land as recognized by Executive Order No. 
        12962, relating to recreational fisheries, and Executive Order 
        No. 13443, relating to facilitation of hunting heritage and 
        wildlife conservation.

SEC. 603. FISHING, HUNTING, AND RECREATIONAL SHOOTING.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means any land 
        or water that is owned by the United States and under the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management or 
        the Forest Service.
            (2) Federal land management officials.--The term ``Federal 
        land management officials'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior and Director of 
                the Bureau of Land Management regarding Bureau of Land 
                Management lands and interests in lands under the 
                administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land 
                Management; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture and Chief of the 
                Forest Service regarding National Forest System lands.
            (3) Hunting.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the term ``hunting'' means use of a firearm, bow, 
                or other authorized means in the lawful--
                            (i) pursuit, shooting, capture, collection, 
                        trapping, or killing of wildlife;
                            (ii) attempt to pursue, shoot, capture, 
                        collect, trap, or kill wildlife; or
                            (iii) the training of hunting dogs, 
                        including field trials.
                    (B) Exclusion.--The term ``hunting'' does not 
                include the use of skilled volunteers to cull excess 
                animals (as defined by other Federal law).
            (4) Recreational fishing.--The term ``recreational 
        fishing'' means the lawful--
                    (A) pursuit, capture, collection, or killing of 
                fish; or
                    (B) attempt to capture, collect, or kill fish.
            (5) Recreational shooting.--The term ``recreational 
        shooting'' means any form of sport, training, competition, or 
        pastime, whether formal or informal, that involves the 
        discharge of a rifle, handgun, or shotgun, or the use of a bow 
        and arrow.
    (b) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights and subsection 
(e), and cooperation with the respective State fish and wildlife 
agency, Federal land management officials shall exercise authority 
under existing law, including provisions regarding land use planning, 
to facilitate use of and access to Federal lands, including National 
Monuments, Wilderness Areas, Wilderness Study Areas, and lands 
administratively classified as wilderness eligible or suitable and 
primitive or semi-primitive areas, for fishing, hunting, and 
recreational shooting, except as limited by--
            (1) statutory authority that authorizes action or 
        withholding action for reasons of national security, public 
        safety, or resource conservation;
            (2) any other Federal statute that specifically precludes 
        fishing, hunting, or recreational shooting on specific Federal 
        lands, waters, or units thereof; and
            (3) discretionary limitations on fishing, hunting, and 
        recreational shooting determined to be necessary and reasonable 
        as supported by the best scientific evidence and advanced 
        through a transparent public process.
    (c) Management.--Consistent with subsection (a), Federal land 
management officials shall exercise their land management discretion--
            (1) in a manner that supports and facilitates fishing, 
        hunting, and recreational shooting opportunities;
            (2) to the extent authorized under applicable State law; 
        and
            (3) in accordance with applicable Federal law.
    (d) Planning.--
            (1) Evaluation of effects on opportunities to engage in 
        fishing, hunting, or recreational shooting.--Planning documents 
        that apply to Federal lands, including land resources 
        management plans, resource management plans, travel management 
        plans, and general management plans shall include a specific 
        evaluation of the effects of such plans on opportunities to 
        engage in fishing, hunting, or recreational shooting.
            (2) Strategic growth policy for the national wildlife 
        refuge system.--Section 4(a)(3) of the National Wildlife Refuge 
        System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd(a)(3)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
                subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (B), the 
                following:
            ``(C) the Secretary shall integrate wildlife-dependent 
        recreational uses in accordance with their status as priority 
        general public uses into proposed or existing regulations, 
        policies, criteria, plans, or other activities to alter or 
        amend the manner in which individual refuges or the National 
        Wildlife Refuge System (System) are managed, including, but not 
        limited to, any activities which target or prioritize criteria 
        for long and short term System acquisitions;''.
            (3) No major federal action.--No action taken under this 
        title, or under section 4 of the National Wildlife Refuge 
        System Administration Act of 1966 (16 U.S.C. 668dd), either 
        individually or cumulatively with other actions involving 
        Federal lands or lands managed by the United States Fish and 
        Wildlife Service, shall be considered to be a major Federal 
        action significantly affecting the quality of the human 
        environment, and no additional identification, analysis, or 
        consideration of environmental effects, including cumulative 
        effects, is necessary or required.
            (4) Other activity not considered.--Federal land management 
        officials are not required to consider the existence or 
        availability of fishing, hunting, or recreational shooting 
        opportunities on adjacent or nearby public or private lands in 
        the planning for or determination of which Federal lands are 
        open for these activities or in the setting of levels of use 
        for these activities on Federal lands, unless the combination 
        or coordination of such opportunities would enhance the 
        fishing, hunting, or recreational shooting opportunities 
        available to the public.
    (e) Federal Lands.--
            (1) Lands open.--Lands under the jurisdiction of the Bureau 
        of Land Management and the Forest Service, including Wilderness 
        Areas, Wilderness Study Areas, lands designated as wilderness 
        or administratively classified as wilderness eligible or 
        suitable and primitive or semi-primitive areas and National 
        Monuments, but excluding lands on the Outer Continental Shelf, 
        shall be open to fishing, hunting, and recreational shooting 
        unless the managing Federal agency acts to close lands to such 
        activity. Lands may be subject to closures or restrictions if 
        determined by the head of the agency to be necessary and 
        reasonable and supported by facts and evidence, for purposes 
        including resource conservation, public safety, energy or 
        mineral production, energy generation or transmission 
        infrastructure, water supply facilities, protection of other 
        permittees, protection of private property rights or interest, 
        national security, or compliance with other law.
            (2) Recreational shooting ranges.--
                    (A) In general.--The head of each Federal agency 
                shall use his or her authorities in a manner consistent 
                with this Act and other applicable law, to--
                            (i) lease or permit use of lands under the 
                        jurisdiction of the agency for recreational 
                        shooting ranges; and
                            (ii) designate specific lands under the 
                        jurisdiction of the agency for recreational 
                        shooting activities.
                    (B) Limitation on liability.--Any designation under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) shall not subject the United 
                States to any civil action or claim for monetary 
                damages for injury or loss of property or personal 
                injury or death caused by any activity occurring at or 
                on such designated lands.
    (f) Necessity in Wilderness Areas and ``Within and Supplemental 
to'' Wilderness Purposes.--
            (1) Minimum requirements for administration.--The provision 
        of opportunities for fishing, hunting, and recreational 
        shooting, and the conservation of fish and wildlife to provide 
        sustainable use recreational opportunities on designated 
        Federal wilderness areas shall constitute measures necessary to 
        meet the minimum requirements for the administration of the 
        wilderness area, provided that this determination shall not 
        authorize or facilitate commodity development, use, or 
        extraction, motorized recreational access or use that is not 
        otherwise allowed under the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
        seq.), or permanent road construction or maintenance within 
        designated wilderness areas.
            (2) Application of wilderness act.--Provisions of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), stipulating that 
        wilderness purposes are ``within and supplemental to'' the 
        purposes of the underlying Federal land unit are reaffirmed. 
        When seeking to carry out fish and wildlife conservation 
        programs and projects or provide fish and wildlife dependent 
        recreation opportunities on designated wilderness areas, each 
        Federal land management official shall implement these 
        supplemental purposes so as to facilitate, enhance, or both, 
        but not to impede the underlying Federal land purposes when 
        seeking to carry out fish and wildlife conservation programs 
        and projects or provide fish and wildlife dependent recreation 
        opportunities in designated wilderness areas, provided that 
        such implementation shall not authorize or facilitate commodity 
        development, use or extraction, or permanent road construction 
        or maintenance within designated wilderness areas.
    (g) No Priority.--Nothing in this section requires a Federal land 
management official to give preference to fishing, hunting, or 
recreational shooting over other uses of Federal land or over land or 
water management priorities established by Federal law.
    (h) Consultation With Councils.--In fulfilling the duties under 
this section, Federal land management officials shall consult with 
respective advisory councils as established in Executive Order Nos. 
12962 and 13443.
    (i) Authority of the States.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as interfering with, diminishing, or conflicting with the 
authority, jurisdiction, or responsibility of any State to exercise 
primary management, control, or regulation of fish and wildlife under 
State law (including regulations) on land or water within the State, 
including on Federal land.
    (j) Federal Licenses.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
to authorize a Federal land management official to require a license, 
fee, or permit to fish, hunt, or trap on land or water in a State, 
including on Federal land in the States, except that this subsection 
shall not affect the Migratory Bird Stamp requirement set forth in the 
Migratory Bird Hunting and Conservation Stamp Act (16 U.S.C. 718 et 
seq.).

SEC. 604. VOLUNTEER HUNTERS; REPORTS; CLOSURES AND RESTRICTIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--For the purposes of this section:
            (1) Public land.--The term ``public land'' means--
                    (A) units of the National Park System;
                    (B) National Forest System lands; and
                    (C) land and interests in land owned by the United 
                States and under the administrative jurisdiction of--
                            (i) the Fish and Wildlife Service; or
                            (ii) the Bureau of Land Management.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior and includes the 
                Director of the National Park Service, with regard to 
                units of the National Park System;
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior and includes the 
                Director of the Fish and Wildlife Service, with regard 
                to Fish and Wildlife Service lands and waters;
                    (C) the Secretary of the Interior and includes the 
                Director of the Bureau of Land Management, with regard 
                to Bureau of Land Management lands and waters; and
                    (D) the Secretary of Agriculture and includes the 
                Chief of the Forest Service, with regard to National 
                Forest System lands.
            (3) Volunteer from the hunting community.--The term 
        ``volunteer from the hunting community'' means a volunteer who 
        holds a valid hunting license issued by a State.
    (b) Volunteer Hunters.--When planning wildlife management involving 
reducing the size of a wildlife population on public land, the 
Secretary shall consider the use of and may use volunteers from the 
hunting community as agents to assist in carrying out wildlife 
management on public land. The Secretary shall not reject the use of 
volunteers from the hunting community as agents without the concurrence 
of the appropriate State wildlife management authorities.
    (c) Report.--Beginning on the second October 1 after the date of 
the enactment of this Act and biennially on October 1 thereafter, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate a report that describes--
            (1) any public land administered by the Secretary that was 
        closed to fishing, hunting, and recreational shooting at any 
        time during the preceding year; and
            (2) the reason for the closure.
    (d) Closures or Significant Restrictions.--
            (1) In general.--Other than closures established or 
        prescribed by land planning actions referred to in section 
        604(e) or emergency closures described in paragraph (2), a 
        permanent or temporary withdrawal, change of classification, or 
        change of management status of public land that effectively 
        closes or significantly restricts any acreage of public land to 
        access or use for fishing, hunting, recreational shooting, or 
        activities related to fishing, hunting, or recreational 
        shooting, or a combination of those activities, shall take 
        effect only if, before the date of withdrawal or change, the 
        Secretary--
                    (A) publishes appropriate notice of the withdrawal 
                or change, respectively;
                    (B) demonstrates that coordination has occurred 
                with a State fish and wildlife agency; and
                    (C) submits to the Committee on Natural Resources 
                of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
                Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate written 
                notice of the withdrawal or change, respectively.
            (2) Emergency closures.--Nothing in this Act prohibits the 
        Secretary from establishing or implementing emergency closures 
        or restrictions of the smallest practicable area to provide for 
        public safety, resource conservation, national security, or 
        other purposes authorized by law. Such an emergency closure 
        shall terminate after a reasonable period of time unless 
        converted to a permanent closure consistent with this Act.

              TITLE VII--FARMER AND HUNTER PROTECTION ACT

SEC. 701. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Hunter and Farmer Protection 
Act''.

SEC. 702. BAITING OF MIGRATORY GAME BIRDS.

    Section 3 of the Migratory Bird Treaty Act (16 U.S.C. 704) is 
amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Prohibition of Baiting.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Baited area.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `baited area' 
                        means--
                                    ``(I) any area on which salt, 
                                grain, or other feed has been placed, 
                                exposed, deposited, distributed, or 
                                scattered, if the salt, grain, or feed 
                                could lure or attract migratory game 
                                birds; and
                                    ``(II) in the case of waterfowl, 
                                cranes (family Gruidae), and coots 
                                (family Rallidae), a standing, 
                                unharvested crop that has been 
                                manipulated through activities such as 
                                mowing, discing, or rolling, unless the 
                                activities are normal agricultural 
                                practices.
                            ``(ii) Exclusions.--An area shall not be 
                        considered to be a `baited area' if the area--
                                    ``(I) has been treated with a 
                                normal agricultural practice;
                                    ``(II) has standing crops that have 
                                not been manipulated; or
                                    ``(III) has standing crops that 
                                have been or are flooded.
                    ``(B) Baiting.--The term `baiting' means the direct 
                or indirect placing, exposing, depositing, 
                distributing, or scattering of salt, grain, or other 
                feed that could lure or attract migratory game birds 
                to, on, or over any areas on which a hunter is 
                attempting to take migratory game birds.
                    ``(C) Migratory game bird.--The term `migratory 
                game bird' means migratory bird species--
                            ``(i) that are within the taxonomic 
                        families of Anatidae, Columbidae, Gruidae, 
                        Rallidae, and Scolopacidae; and
                            ``(ii) for which open seasons are 
                        prescribed by the Secretary of the Interior.
                    ``(D) Normal agricultural practice.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `normal 
                        agricultural practice' means any practice in 1 
                        annual growing season that--
                                    ``(I) is carried out in order to 
                                produce a marketable crop, including 
                                planting, harvest, postharvest, or soil 
                                conservation practices; and
                                    ``(II) is recommended for the 
                                successful harvest of a given crop by 
                                the applicable State office of the 
                                Cooperative Extension System of the 
                                Department of Agriculture, in 
                                consultation with, and if requested, 
                                the concurrence of, the head of the 
                                applicable State department of fish and 
                                wildlife.
                            ``(ii) Inclusions.--
                                    ``(I) In general.--Subject to 
                                subclause (II), the term `normal 
                                agricultural practice' includes the 
                                destruction of a crop in accordance 
                                with practices required by the Federal 
                                Crop Insurance Corporation for 
                                agricultural producers to obtain crop 
                                insurance under the Federal Crop 
                                Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.) 
                                on land on which a crop during the 
                                current or immediately preceding crop 
                                year was not harvestable due to a 
                                natural disaster (including any 
                                hurricane, storm, tornado, flood, high 
                                water, wind-driven water, tidal wave, 
                                tsunami, earthquake, volcanic eruption, 
                                landslide, mudslide, drought, fire, 
                                snowstorm, or other catastrophe that is 
                                declared a major disaster by the 
                                President in accordance with section 
                                401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
                                Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 
                                U.S.C. 5170)).
                                    ``(II) Limitations.--The term 
                                `normal agricultural practice' only 
                                includes a crop described in subclause 
                                (I) that has been destroyed or 
                                manipulated through activities that 
                                include (but are not limited to) 
                                mowing, discing, or rolling if the 
                                Federal Crop Insurance Corporation 
                                certifies that flooding was not an 
                                acceptable method of destruction to 
                                obtain crop insurance under the Federal 
                                Crop Insurance Act (7 U.S.C. 1501 et 
                                seq.).
                    ``(E) Waterfowl.--The term `waterfowl' means native 
                species of the family Anatidae.
            ``(2) Prohibition.--It shall be unlawful for any person--
                    ``(A) to take any migratory game bird by baiting or 
                on or over any baited area, if the person knows or 
                reasonably should know that the area is a baited area; 
                or
                    ``(B) to place or direct the placement of bait on 
                or adjacent to an area for the purpose of causing, 
                inducing, or allowing any person to take or attempt to 
                take any migratory game bird by baiting or on or over 
                the baited area.
            ``(3) Regulations.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
        promulgate regulations to implement this subsection.
            ``(4) Reports.--Annually, the Secretary of Agriculture 
        shall submit to the Secretary of the Interior a report that 
        describes any changes to normal agricultural practices across 
        the range of crops grown by agricultural producers in each 
        region of the United States in which the recommendations are 
        provided to agricultural producers.''.

    TITLE VIII--TRANSPORTING BOWS ACROSS NATIONAL PARK SERVICE LANDS

SEC. 801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Hunter Access Corridors Act''.

SEC. 802. BOWHUNTING OPPORTUNITY AND WILDLIFE STEWARDSHIP.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 1015 of title 54, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 101513. Hunter access corridors
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Not ready for immediate use.--The term `not ready for 
        immediate use' means--
                    ``(A) a bow or crossbow, the arrows of which are 
                secured or stowed in a quiver or other arrow transport 
                case; and
                    ``(B) with respect to a crossbow, uncocked.
            ``(2) Valid hunting license.--The term `valid hunting 
        license' means a State-issued hunting license that authorizes 
        an individual to hunt on private or public land adjacent to the 
        System unit in which the individual is located while in 
        possession of a bow or crossbow that is not ready for immediate 
        use.
    ``(b) Transportation Authorized.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director shall not require a permit 
        for, or promulgate or enforce any regulation that prohibits an 
        individual from transporting bows and crossbows that are not 
        ready for immediate use across any System unit if--
                    ``(A) in the case of an individual traversing the 
                System unit on foot--
                            ``(i) the individual is not otherwise 
                        prohibited by law from possessing the bows and 
                        crossbows;
                            ``(ii) the bows or crossbows are not ready 
                        for immediate use throughout the period during 
                        which the bows or crossbows are transported 
                        across the System unit;
                            ``(iii) the possession of the bows and 
                        crossbows is in compliance with the law of the 
                        State in which the System unit is located; and
                            ``(iv)(I) the individual possesses a valid 
                        hunting license;
                            ``(II) the individual is traversing the 
                        System unit en route to a hunting access 
                        corridor established under subsection (c)(1); 
                        or
                            ``(III) the individual is traversing the 
                        System unit in compliance with any other 
                        applicable regulations or policies; or
                    ``(B) the bows or crossbows are not ready for 
                immediate use and remain inside a vehicle.
            ``(2) Enforcement.--Nothing in this subsection limits the 
        authority of the Director to enforce laws (including 
        regulations) prohibiting hunting or the taking of wildlife in 
        any System unit.
    ``(c) Establishment of Hunter Access Corridors.--
            ``(1) In general.--On a determination by the Director under 
        paragraph (2), the Director may establish and publish (in 
        accordance with section 1.5 of title 36, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (or a successor regulation)), on a publicly 
        available map, hunter access corridors across System units that 
        are used to access public land that is--
                    ``(A) contiguous to a System unit; and
                    ``(B) open to hunting.
            ``(2) Determination by director.--The determination 
        referred to in paragraph (1) is a determination that the hunter 
        access corridor would provide wildlife management or visitor 
        experience benefits within the boundary of the System unit in 
        which the hunter access corridor is located.
            ``(3) Hunting season.--The hunter access corridors shall be 
        open for use during hunting seasons.
            ``(4) Exception.--The Director may establish limited 
        periods during which access through the hunter access corridors 
        is closed for reasons of public safety, administration, or 
        compliance with applicable law. Such closures shall be clearly 
        marked with signs and dates of closures, and shall not include 
        gates, chains, walls, or other barriers on the hunter access 
        corridor.
            ``(5) Identification of corridors.--The Director shall--
                    ``(A) make information regarding hunter access 
                corridors available on the individual website of the 
                applicable System unit; and
                    ``(B) provide information regarding any processes 
                established by the Director for transporting legally 
                taken game through individual hunter access corridors.
            ``(6) Registration; transportation of game.--The Director 
        may--
                    ``(A) provide registration boxes to be located at 
                the trailhead of each hunter access corridor for self-
                registration;
                    ``(B) provide a process for online self-
                registration; and
                    ``(C) allow nonmotorized conveyances to transport 
                legally taken game through a hunter access corridor 
                established under this subsection, including game carts 
                and sleds.
            ``(7) Consultation with states.--The Director shall consult 
        with each applicable State wildlife agency to identify 
        appropriate hunter access corridors.
    ``(d) Effect.--Nothing in this section--
            ``(1) diminishes, enlarges, or modifies any Federal or 
        State authority with respect to recreational hunting, 
        recreational shooting, or any other recreational activities 
        within the boundaries of a System unit; or
            ``(2) authorizes--
                    ``(A) the establishment of new trails in System 
                units; or
                    ``(B) authorizes individuals to access areas in 
                System units, on foot or otherwise, that are not open 
                to such access.
    ``(e) No Major Federal Action.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any action taken under this section 
        shall not be considered a major Federal action significantly 
        affecting the quality of the human environment under the 
        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
        seq.).
            ``(2) No additional action required.--No additional 
        identification, analyses, or consideration of environmental 
        effects (including cumulative environmental effects) is 
        necessary or required with respect to an action taken under 
        this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for title 54, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
101512 the following:

``101513. Hunter access corridors.''.

  TITLE IX--FEDERAL LAND TRANSACTION FACILITATION ACT REAUTHORIZATION 
                                (FLTFA)

SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Federal Land Transaction 
Facilitation Act Reauthorization''.

SEC. 902. FEDERAL LAND TRANSACTION FACILITATION ACT.

    The Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act is amended--
            (1) in section 203(1) (43 U.S.C. 2302(1)), by striking 
        ``cultural, or'' and inserting ``cultural, recreational access 
        and use, or other'';
            (2) in section 203(2) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``on the date of enactment of this Act was'' 
        and inserting ``is'';
            (3) in section 205 (43 U.S.C. 2304)--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 206'' 
                and all that follows through the period and inserting 
                the following: ``section 206--
            ``(1) to complete appraisals and satisfy other legal 
        requirements for the sale or exchange of public land identified 
        for disposal under approved land use plans under section 202 of 
        the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
        1712);
            ``(2) not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of the Federal Land Transaction Facilitation Act 
        Reauthorization, to establish and make available to the public, 
        on the website of the Department of the Interior, a database 
        containing a comprehensive list of all the land referred to in 
        paragraph (1); and
            ``(3) to maintain the database referred to in paragraph 
        (2).''; and
                    (B) in subsection (d), by striking ``11'' and 
                inserting ``22'';
            (4) by amending section 206(c)(1) (43 U.S.C. 2305(c)(1)) to 
        read as follows:
            ``(1) Use of funds.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Funds in the Federal Land 
                Disposal Account shall be expended, subject to 
                appropriation, in accordance with this subsection.
                    ``(B) Purposes.--Except as authorized under 
                paragraph (2), funds in the Federal Land Disposal 
                Account shall be used for one or more of the following 
                purposes:
                            ``(i) To purchase lands or interests 
                        therein that are otherwise authorized by law to 
                        be acquired and are one or more of the 
                        following:
                                    ``(I) Inholdings.
                                    ``(II) Adjacent to federally 
                                designated areas and contain 
                                exceptional resources.
                                    ``(III) Provide opportunities for 
                                hunting, recreational fishing, 
                                recreational shooting, and other 
                                recreational activities.
                                    ``(IV) Likely to aid in the 
                                performance of deferred maintenance or 
                                the reduction of operation and 
                                maintenance costs or other deferred 
                                costs.
                            ``(ii) To perform deferred maintenance or 
                        other maintenance activities that enhance 
                        opportunities for recreational access.'';
            (5) in section 206(c)(2) (43 U.S.C. 2305(c)(2))--
                    (A) by striking subparagraph (A);
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and 
                (D) as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C) (as so redesignated by this 
                paragraph)--
                            (i) by striking ``purchases'' and inserting 
                        ``land purchases and performance of deferred 
                        maintenance activities'';
                            (ii) by striking ``subparagraph (C)'' and 
                        inserting ``subparagraph (B)''; and
                            (iii) by inserting ``for the activities 
                        outlined in paragraph (2)'' after 
                        ``generated''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) Any funds made available under subparagraph 
                (C) that are not obligated or expended by the end of 
                the fourth full fiscal year after the date of the sale 
                or exchange of land that generated the funds may be 
                expended in any State.'';
            (6) in section 206(c)(3) (43 U.S.C. 2305(c)(3))--
                    (A) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following:
                    ``(B) the extent to which the acquisition of the 
                land or interest therein will increase the public 
                availability of resources for, and facilitate public 
                access to, hunting, fishing, and other recreational 
                activities;''; and
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
                subparagraphs (C) and (D);
            (7) in section 206(f) (43 U.S.C. 2305(f)), by amending 
        paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) any remaining balance in the account shall be 
        deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit reduction, 
        except that in the case of a fiscal year for which there is no 
        Federal budget deficit, such amounts shall be used to reduce 
        the Federal debt (in such manner as the Secretary of the 
        Treasury considers appropriate).''; and
            (8) in section 207(b) (43 U.S.C. 2306(b))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``96-568'' and inserting 
                        ``96-586''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
                        semicolon;
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by inserting ``Public Law 105-263;'' 
                        before ``112 Stat.''; and
                            (ii) by striking the period at the end and 
                        inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) the White Pine County Conservation, Recreation, and 
        Development Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-432; 120 Stat. 3028);
            ``(4) the Lincoln County Conservation, Recreation, and 
        Development Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-424; 118 Stat. 2403);
            ``(5) subtitle F of title I of the Omnibus Public Land 
        Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 1132 note; Public Law 111-
        11);
            ``(6) subtitle O of title I of the Omnibus Public Land 
        Management Act of 2009 (16 U.S.C. 460www note, 1132 note; 
        Public Law 111-11);
            ``(7) section 2601 of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
        Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1108); or
            ``(8) section 2606 of the Omnibus Public Land Management 
        Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1121).''.

 TITLE X--AFRICAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION AND LEGAL IVORY POSSESSION ACT

SEC. 1001. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``African Elephant Conservation and 
Legal Ivory Possession Act''.

SEC. 1002. REFERENCES.

    Except as otherwise specifically provided, whenever in this title 
an amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or 
repeal of, a provision, the reference shall be considered to be made to 
a provision of the African Elephant Conservation Act (16 U.S.C. 4201 et 
seq.).

SEC. 1003. LIMITED EXEMPTION FOR CERTAIN AFRICAN ELEPHANT IVORY.

    Section 2203 (16 U.S.C. 4223) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before the first 
        sentence;
            (2) by inserting ``and subsection (b) of this section'' 
        after ``2202(e)''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Exemption.--Nothing in this Act or subsection (a) or (d) of 
section 9 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1538) shall 
be construed to prohibit importation or exportation, or to require 
permission of the Secretary for importation or exportation, of--
            ``(1) any raw ivory or worked ivory--
                    ``(A) imported solely for purposes of becoming part 
                of a museum's permanent collection, return to a lending 
                museum, or display in a museum; or
                    ``(B) exported solely for purposes of--
                            ``(i) display in a foreign museum; or
                            ``(ii) return to a foreign person who lent 
                        such ivory to a museum in the United States;
            ``(2) any raw ivory or worked ivory that was lawfully 
        importable into the United States on February 24, 2014, 
        regardless of when acquired; or
            ``(3) any worked ivory that was previously lawfully 
        possessed in the United States.''.

SEC. 1004. PLACEMENT OF UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE LAW 
              ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS IN EACH AFRICAN ELEPHANT RANGE 
              COUNTRY.

    Part I (16 U.S.C. 4211 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``SEC. 2105. PLACEMENT OF UNITED STATES FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE LAW 
              ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS IN EACH AFRICAN ELEPHANT RANGE 
              COUNTRY.

    ``The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, may 
station United States Fish and Wildlife Service law enforcement 
officers in the primary United States diplomatic or consular post in 
each African country that has a significant population of African 
elephants, who shall assist local wildlife rangers in the protection of 
African elephants and facilitate the apprehension of individuals who 
illegally kill, or assist the illegal killing of, African elephants.''.

SEC. 1005. CERTIFICATION FOR THE PURPOSES OF THE FISHERMEN'S PROTECTIVE 
              ACT OF 1967.

    Section 2202 (16 U.S.C. 4222) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(g) Certification.--When the Secretary of the Interior finds that 
a country, directly or indirectly, is a significant transit or 
destination point for illegal ivory trade, the Secretary shall certify 
such fact to the President with respect to the country for the purposes 
of section 8(a) of the Fishermen's Protective Act of 1967 (22 U.S.C. 
1978(a)).''.

SEC. 1006. TREATMENT OF ELEPHANT IVORY.

    Section 2203 (16 U.S.C. 4223) is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(c) Treatment of Elephant Ivory.--Nothing in this Act or the 
Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1538) shall be construed--
            ``(1) to prohibit, or to authorize prohibiting, the 
        possession, sale, delivery, receipt, shipment, or 
        transportation of African elephant ivory, or any product 
        containing African elephant ivory, that has been lawfully 
        imported or crafted in the United States; or
            ``(2) to authorize using any means of determining for 
        purposes of this Act or the Endangered Species Act of 1973 
        whether African elephant ivory has been lawfully imported, 
        including any presumption or burden of proof applied in such 
        determination, other than such means used by the Secretary as 
        of February 24, 2014.''.

SEC. 1007. SPORT-HUNTED ELEPHANT TROPHIES.

    Section 2203 (16 U.S.C. 4223) is further amended by adding at the 
end the following:
    ``(d) Sport-Hunted Elephant Trophies.--Nothing in this Act or 
subsection (a) or (d) of section 9 of the Endangered Species Act of 
1973 (16 U.S.C. 1538) shall be construed to prohibit any citizen or 
legal resident of the United States, or an agent of such an individual, 
from importing a sport-hunted African elephant trophy under section 
2202(e) of this Act, if the country in which the elephant was taken had 
an elephant population on Appendix II of CITES at the time the trophy 
elephant was taken.
    ``(e) Relationship to the Convention.--Nothing in this section 
shall be construed as modifying or repealing the Secretary's duties to 
implement CITES and the appendices thereto, or as modifying or 
repealing section 8A or 9(c) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
U.S.C. 1537a and 1538(c)).''.

SEC. 1008. AFRICAN ELEPHANT CONSERVATION ACT FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE 
              PRIORITY AND REAUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Financial Assistance Priority.--Section 2101 (16 U.S.C. 4211) 
is amended by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) 
and (g), respectively, and by inserting after subsection (d) the 
following:
    ``(e) Priority.--In providing financial assistance under this 
section, the Secretary shall give priority to projects designed to 
facilitate the acquisition of equipment and training of wildlife 
officials in ivory producing countries to be used in anti-poaching 
efforts.''.
    (b) Reauthorization.--Section 2306(a) (16 U.S.C. 4245(a)) is 
amended by striking ``2007 through 2012'' and inserting ``2016 through 
2020''.

SEC. 1009. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE STUDY.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study 
examining the effects of a ban of the trade in of fossilized ivory from 
mammoths and mastodons on the illegal importation and trade of African 
and Asian elephant ivory within the United States, with the exception 
of importation or trade thereof related to museum exhibitions or 
scientific research, and report to Congress the findings of such study.

               TITLE XI--RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND RIGHTS

SEC. 1101. RESPECT FOR TREATIES AND RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall be 
construed to affect or modify any treaty or other right of any 
federally recognized Indian tribe.

        TITLE XII--PERMITS FOR FILM CREWS OF FIVE PEOPLE OR LESS

SEC. 1201. ANNUAL PERMIT AND FEE FOR FILM CREWS OF 5 PERSONS OR FEWER.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to provide commercial 
film crews of 5 persons or fewer access to film in areas designated for 
public use during public hours on Federal land and waterways.
    (b) National Park System Land.--Section 100905 of title 54, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The Secretary'' 
                and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), 
                the Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Special rules for film crews of 5 persons or fewer.--
                    ``(A) Definition of film crew.--In this paragraph, 
                the term `film crew' means any persons present on 
                Federal land or waterways under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary who are associated with the production of a 
                film.
                    ``(B) Required permit and fee.--For any film crew 
                of 5 persons or fewer, the Secretary shall require a 
                permit and assess an annual fee of $200 for commercial 
                filming activities or similar projects on Federal land 
                and waterways administered by the Secretary.
                    ``(C) Commercial filming activities.--A permit 
                issued under subparagraph (B) shall be valid for 
                commercial filming activities or similar projects that 
                occur in areas designated for public use during public 
                hours on all Federal land and waterways administered by 
                the Secretary for a 1-year period beginning on the date 
                of issuance of the permit.
                    ``(D) No additional fees.--For persons holding a 
                permit issued under this paragraph, during the 
                effective period of the permit, the Secretary shall not 
                assess any fees in addition to the fee assessed under 
                subparagraph (B).
                    ``(E) Use of cameras.--The Secretary shall not 
                prohibit, as a mechanized apparatus or under any other 
                purposes, use of cameras or related equipment used for 
                the purpose of commercial filming activities or similar 
                projects in accordance with this paragraph on Federal 
                land and waterways administered by the Secretary.
                    ``(F) Notification required.--A film crew of 5 
                persons or fewer subject to a permit issued under this 
                paragraph shall notify the applicable land management 
                agency with jurisdiction over the Federal land at least 
                48 hours before entering the Federal land.
                    ``(G) Denial of access.--The head of the applicable 
                land management agency may deny access to a film crew 
                under this paragraph if--
                            ``(i) there is a likelihood of resource 
                        damage that cannot be mitigated;
                            ``(ii) there would be an unreasonable 
                        disruption of the use and enjoyment of the site 
                        by the public;
                            ``(iii) the activity poses health or safety 
                        risks to the public; or
                            ``(iv) the filming includes the use of 
                        models or props that are not part of the 
                        natural or cultural resources or administrative 
                        facilities of the Federal land.''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by striking 
        ``collect any costs'' and inserting ``recover any costs''.
    (c) Other Federal Land.--Section 1 of Public Law 106-206 (16 U.S.C. 
460l-6d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``The Secretary'' 
                and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (3), 
                the Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Special rules for film crews of 5 persons or fewer.--
                    ``(A) Definition of film crew.--In this paragraph, 
                the term `film crew' means any persons present on 
                Federal land or waterways under the jurisdiction of the 
                Secretary who are associated with the production of a 
                film.
                    ``(B) Required permit and fee.--For any film crew 
                of 5 persons or fewer, the Secretary shall require a 
                permit and assess an annual fee of $200 for commercial 
                filming activities or similar projects on Federal land 
                and waterways administered by the Secretary.
                    ``(C) Commercial filming activities.--A permit 
                issued under subparagraph (B) shall be valid for 
                commercial filming activities or similar projects that 
                occur in areas designated for public use during public 
                hours on all Federal land and waterways administered by 
                the Secretary for a 1-year period beginning on the date 
                of issuance of the permit.
                    ``(D) No additional fees.--For persons holding a 
                permit issued under this paragraph, during the 
                effective period of the permit, the Secretary shall not 
                assess any fees in addition to the fee assessed under 
                subparagraph (B).
                    ``(E) Use of cameras.--The Secretary shall not 
                prohibit, as a mechanized apparatus or under any other 
                purposes, use of cameras or related equipment used for 
                the purpose of commercial filming activities or similar 
                projects in accordance with this paragraph on Federal 
                land and waterways administered by the Secretary.
                    ``(F) Notification required.--A film crew of 5 
                persons or fewer subject to a permit issued under this 
                paragraph shall notify the applicable land management 
                agency with jurisdiction over the Federal land at least 
                48 hours before entering the Federal land.
                    ``(G) Denial of access.--The head of the applicable 
                land management agency may deny access to a film crew 
                under this paragraph if--
                            ``(i) there is a likelihood of resource 
                        damage that cannot be mitigated;
                            ``(ii) there would be an unreasonable 
                        disruption of the use and enjoyment of the site 
                        by the public;
                            ``(iii) the activity poses health or safety 
                        risks to the public; or
                            ``(iv) the filming includes the use of 
                        models or props that are not part of the 
                        natural or cultural resources or administrative 
                        facilities of the Federal land.''; and
            (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``collect any costs'' and inserting 
                ``recover any costs''; and
                    (B) by striking ``similar project'' and inserting 
                ``similar projects''.

           TITLE XIII--STATE APPROVAL OF FISHING RESTRICTION

SEC. 1301. STATE OR TERRITORIAL APPROVAL OF RESTRICTION OF RECREATIONAL 
              OR COMMERCIAL FISHING ACCESS TO CERTAIN STATE OR 
              TERRITORIAL WATERS.

    (a) Approval Required.--The Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Commerce shall not restrict recreational or commercial 
fishing access to any State or territorial marine waters or Great Lakes 
waters within the jurisdiction of the National Park Service or the 
Office of National Marine Sanctuaries, respectively, unless those 
restrictions are developed in coordination with, and approved by, the 
fish and wildlife management agency of the State or territory that has 
fisheries management authority over those waters.
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``marine waters'' 
includes coastal waters and estuaries.

  TITLE XIV--HUNTING AND RECREATIONAL FISHING WITHIN CERTAIN NATIONAL 
                                FORESTS

SEC. 1401. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Hunting.--The term ``hunting'' means use of a firearm, 
        bow, or other authorized means in the lawful pursuit, shooting, 
        capture, collection, trapping, or killing of wildlife; attempt 
        to pursue, shoot, capture, collect, trap, or kill wildlife; or 
        the training and use of hunting dogs, including field trials.
            (2) Recreational fishing.--The term ``recreational 
        fishing'' means the lawful pursuit, capture, collection, or 
        killing of fish; or attempt to capture, collect, or kill fish.
            (3) Forest plan.--The term ``forest plan'' means a land and 
        resource management plan prepared by the Forest Service for a 
        unit of the National Forest System pursuant to section 6 of the 
        Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 
        (16 U.S.C. 1604).
            (4) National forest system.--The term ``National Forest 
        System'' has the meaning given that term in section 11(a) of 
        the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 
        1974 (16 U.S.C. 1609(a))

SEC. 1402. HUNTING AND RECREATIONAL FISHING WITHIN THE NATIONAL FOREST 
              SYSTEM.

    (a) Prohibition of Restrictions.--The Secretary of Agriculture or 
Chief of the Forest Service may not establish policies, directives, or 
regulations that restrict the type, season, or method of hunting or 
recreational fishing on lands within the National Forest System that 
are otherwise open to those activities and are consistent with the 
applicable forest plan.
    (b) Prior Restrictions Void.--Any restrictions imposed by the 
Secretary of Agriculture or Chief of the Forest Service regarding the 
type, season, or method of hunting or recreational fishing on lands 
within the National Forest System that are otherwise open to those 
activities in force on the date of the enactment of this Act shall be 
void and have no force or effect.
    (c) Applicability.--This section shall apply only to the Kisatchie 
National Forest in the State of Louisiana, the De Soto National Forest 
in the State of Mississippi, the Mark Twain National Forest in the 
State of Missouri, and the Ozark National Forest, the St. Francis 
National Forest and the Ouachita National Forest in the States of 
Arkansas and Oklahoma.
    (d) State Authority.--Nothing in this section, section 1 of the Act 
of June 4, 1897 (16 U.S.C. 551), or section 32 of the Act of July 22, 
1937 (7 U.S.C. 1011) shall affect the authority of States to manage 
hunting or recreational fishing on lands within the National Forest 
System.

SEC. 1403. PUBLICATION OF CLOSURE OF ROADS IN FORESTS.

    The Chief of the Forest Service shall publish a notice in the 
Federal Register for the closure of any public road on Forest System 
lands, along with a justification for the closure.

              TITLE XV--GRAND CANYON BISON MANAGEMENT ACT

SEC. 1501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Grand Canyon Bison Management 
Act''.

SEC. 1502. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan published under section 1503(a).
            (2) Park.--The term ``Park'' means the Grand Canyon 
        National Park.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (4) Skilled public volunteer.--The term ``skilled public 
        volunteer'' means an individual who possesses--
                    (A) a valid hunting license issued by the State of 
                Arizona; and
                    (B) such other qualifications as the Secretary may 
                require, after consultation with the Arizona Game and 
                Fish Commission.

SEC. 1503. BISON MANAGEMENT PLAN FOR GRAND CANYON NATIONAL PARK.

    (a) Publication of Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall publish a management plan to 
reduce, through humane lethal culling by skilled public volunteers and 
by other nonlethal means, the population of bison in the Park that the 
Secretary determines are detrimental to the use of the Park.
    (b) Removal of Animal.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
a skilled public volunteer may remove a full bison harvested from the 
Park.
    (c) Coordination.--The Secretary shall coordinate with the Arizona 
Game and Fish Commission regarding the development and implementation 
of the management plan.
    (d) NEPA Compliance.--In developing the management plan, the 
Secretary shall comply with all applicable Federal environmental laws 
(including regulations), including the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).
    (e) Limitation.--Nothing in this title applies to the taking of 
wildlife in the Park for any purpose other than the implementation of 
the management plan.

            TITLE XVI--OPEN BOOK ON EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE

SEC. 1601. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Open Book on Equal Access to 
Justice Act''.

SEC. 1602. MODIFICATION OF EQUAL ACCESS TO JUSTICE PROVISIONS.

    (a) Agency Proceedings.--Section 504 of title 5, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``, United States 
        Code'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (i); and
            (3) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
    ``(e)(1) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States, after consultation with the Chief Counsel for Advocacy 
of the Small Business Administration, shall report to the Congress, not 
later than March 31 of each year through the 6th calendar year 
beginning after the initial report under this subsection is submitted, 
on the amount of fees and other expenses awarded during the preceding 
fiscal year pursuant to this section. The report shall describe the 
number, nature, and amount of the awards, the claims involved in the 
controversy, and any other relevant information that may aid the 
Congress in evaluating the scope and impact of such awards. The report 
shall be made available to the public online.
    ``(2)(A) The report required by paragraph (1) shall account for all 
payments of fees and other expenses awarded under this section that are 
made pursuant to a settlement agreement, regardless of whether the 
settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise subject to nondisclosure 
provisions.
    ``(B) The disclosure of fees and other expenses required under 
subparagraph (A) does not affect any other information that is subject 
to nondisclosure provisions in the settlement agreement.
    ``(f) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference shall create 
and maintain, during the period beginning on the date the initial 
report under subsection (e) is submitted and ending one year after the 
date on which the final report under that subsection is submitted, 
online a searchable database containing the following information with 
respect to each award of fees and other expenses under this section:
            ``(1) The case name and number of the adversary 
        adjudication, if available.
            ``(2) The name of the agency involved in the adversary 
        adjudication.
            ``(3) A description of the claims in the adversary 
        adjudication.
            ``(4) The name of each party to whom the award was made, as 
        such party is identified in the order or other agency document 
        making the award.
            ``(5) The amount of the award.
            ``(6) The basis for the finding that the position of the 
        agency concerned was not substantially justified.
    ``(g) The online searchable database described in subsection (f) 
may not reveal any information the disclosure of which is prohibited by 
law or court order.
    ``(h) The head of each agency shall provide to the Chairman of the 
Administrative Conference in a timely manner all information requested 
by the Chairman to comply with the requirements of subsections (e), 
(f), and (g).''.
    (b) Court Cases.--Section 2412(d) of title 28, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5)(A) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference of the 
United States shall submit to the Congress, not later than March 31 of 
each year through the 6th calendar year beginning after the initial 
report under this paragraph is submitted, a report on the amount of 
fees and other expenses awarded during the preceding fiscal year 
pursuant to this subsection. The report shall describe the number, 
nature, and amount of the awards, the claims involved in each 
controversy, and any other relevant information that may aid the 
Congress in evaluating the scope and impact of such awards. The report 
shall be made available to the public online.
    ``(B)(i) The report required by subparagraph (A) shall account for 
all payments of fees and other expenses awarded under this subsection 
that are made pursuant to a settlement agreement, regardless of whether 
the settlement agreement is sealed or otherwise subject to 
nondisclosure provisions.
    ``(ii) The disclosure of fees and other expenses required under 
clause (i) does not affect any other information that is subject to 
nondisclosure provisions in the settlement agreement.
    ``(C) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference shall include 
and clearly identify in the annual report under subparagraph (A), for 
each case in which an award of fees and other expenses is included in 
the report--
            ``(i) any amounts paid from section 1304 of title 31 for a 
        judgment in the case;
            ``(ii) the amount of the award of fees and other expenses; 
        and
            ``(iii) the statute under which the plaintiff filed suit.
    ``(6) The Chairman of the Administrative Conference shall create 
and maintain, during the period beginning on the date the initial 
report under paragraph (5) is submitted and ending one year after the 
date on which the final report under that paragraph is submitted, 
online a searchable database containing the following information with 
respect to each award of fees and other expenses under this subsection:
            ``(A) The case name and number.
            ``(B) The name of the agency involved in the case.
            ``(C) The name of each party to whom the award was made, as 
        such party is identified in the order or other court document 
        making the award.
            ``(D) A description of the claims in the case.
            ``(E) The amount of the award.
            ``(F) The basis for the finding that the position of the 
        agency concerned was not substantially justified.
    ``(7) The online searchable database described in paragraph (6) may 
not reveal any information the disclosure of which is prohibited by law 
or court order.
    ``(8) The head of each agency (including the Attorney General of 
the United States) shall provide to the Chairman of the Administrative 
Conference of the United States in a timely manner all information 
requested by the Chairman to comply with the requirements of paragraphs 
(5), (6), and (7).''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--Section 2412 of title 28, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(3), by striking ``United States 
        Code,''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)--
                    (A) by striking ``of section 2412 of title 28, 
                United States Code,'' and inserting ``of this 
                section''; and
                    (B) by striking ``of such title'' and inserting 
                ``of this title''.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and 
        (b) shall first apply with respect to awards of fees and other 
        expenses that are made on or after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.
            (2) Initial reports.--The first reports required by section 
        504(e) of title 5, United States Code, and section 2412(d)(5) 
        of title 28, United States Code, shall be submitted not later 
        than March 31 of the calendar year following the first calendar 
        year in which a fiscal year begins after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (3) Online databases.--The online databases required by 
        section 504(f) of title 5, United States Code, and section 
        2412(d)(6) of title 28, United States Code, shall be 
        established as soon as practicable after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, but in no case later than the date on 
        which the first reports under section 504(e) of title 5, United 
        States Code, and section 2412(d)(5) of title 28, United States 
        Code, are required to be submitted under paragraph (2) of this 
        subsection.

                  TITLE XVII--UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES

SEC. 1701. UTILITY TERRAIN VEHICLES IN KISATCHIE NATIONAL FOREST.

    (a) In General.--The Forest Administrator shall amend the 
applicable travel plan to allow utility terrain vehicles access on all 
roads nominated by the Secretary of Louisiana Wildlife and Fisheries in 
the Kisatchie National Forest, except when such designation would pose 
an unacceptable safety risk, in which case the Forest Administrator 
shall publish a notice in the Federal Register with a justification for 
the closure.
    (b) Utility Terrain Vehicles Defined.--For purposes of this 
section, the term ``utility terrain vehicle''--
            (1) means any recreational motor vehicle designed for and 
        capable of travel over designated roads, traveling on four or 
        more tires with a maximum tire width of 27 inches, a maximum 
        wheel cleat or lug of \3/4\ of an inch, a minimum width of 50 
        inches but not exceeding 74 inches, a minimum weight of at 
        least 700 pounds but not exceeding 2,000 pounds, and a minimum 
        wheelbase of 61 inches but not exceeding 110 inches;
            (2) includes vehicles not equipped with a certification 
        label as required by part 567.4 of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations; and
            (3) does not include golf carts, vehicles specially 
        designed to carry a disabled person, or vehicles otherwise 
        registered under section 32.299 of the Louisiana State 
        statutes.

            TITLE XVIII--GOOD SAMARITAN SEARCH AND RECOVERY

SEC. 1801. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Good Samaritan Search and Recovery 
Act''.

SEC. 1802. EXPEDITED ACCESS TO CERTAIN FEDERAL LAND.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible.--The term ``eligible'', with respect to an 
        organization or individual, means that the organization or 
        individual, respectively, is--
                    (A) acting in a not-for-profit capacity; and
                    (B) composed entirely of members who, at the time 
                of the good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission, have 
                attained the age of majority under the law of the State 
                where the mission takes place.
            (2) Good samaritan search-and-recovery mission.--The term 
        ``good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission'' means a search 
        conducted by an eligible organization or individual for 1 or 
        more missing individuals believed to be deceased at the time 
        that the search is initiated.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior or the Secretary of Agriculture, as applicable.
    (b) Process.--
            (1) In general.--Each Secretary shall develop and implement 
        a process to expedite access to Federal land under the 
        administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary for eligible 
        organizations and individuals to request access to Federal land 
        to conduct good Samaritan search-and-recovery missions.
            (2) Inclusions.--The process developed and implemented 
        under this subsection shall include provisions to clarify 
        that--
                    (A) an eligible organization or individual granted 
                access under this section--
                            (i) shall be acting for private purposes; 
                        and
                            (ii) shall not be considered to be a 
                        Federal volunteer;
                    (B) an eligible organization or individual 
                conducting a good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission 
                under this section shall not be considered to be a 
                volunteer under section 102301(c) of title 54, United 
                States Code;
                    (C) chapter 171 of title 28, United States Code 
                (commonly known as the ``Federal Tort Claims Act''), 
                shall not apply to an eligible organization or 
                individual carrying out a privately requested good 
                Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this 
                section; and
                    (D) an eligible organization or entity who conducts 
                a good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this 
                section shall serve without pay from the Federal 
                Government for such service.
    (c) Release of Federal Government From Liability.--The Secretary 
shall not require an eligible organization or individual to have 
liability insurance as a condition of accessing Federal land under this 
section, if the eligible organization or individual--
            (1) acknowledges and consents, in writing, to the 
        provisions described in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of 
        subsection (b)(2); and
            (2) signs a waiver releasing the Federal Government from 
        all liability relating to the access granted under this section 
        and agrees to indemnify and hold harmless the United States 
        from any claims or lawsuits arising from any conduct by the 
        eligible organization or individual on Federal land.
    (d) Approval and Denial of Requests.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall notify an eligible 
        organization or individual of the approval or denial of a 
        request by the eligible organization or individual to carry out 
        a good Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this section 
        by not later than 48 hours after the request is made.
            (2) Denials.--If the Secretary denies a request from an 
        eligible organization or individual to carry out a good 
        Samaritan search-and-recovery mission under this section, the 
        Secretary shall notify the eligible organization or individual 
        of--
                    (A) the reason for the denial of the request; and
                    (B) any actions that the eligible organization or 
                individual can take to meet the requirements for the 
                request to be approved.
    (e) Partnerships.--Each Secretary shall develop search-and-
recovery-focused partnerships with search-and-recovery organizations--
            (1) to coordinate good Samaritan search-and-recovery 
        missions on Federal land under the administrative jurisdiction 
        of the Secretary; and
            (2) to expedite and accelerate good Samaritan search-and-
        recovery mission efforts for missing individuals on Federal 
        land under the administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary.
    (f) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretaries shall submit to Congress a joint report 
describing--
            (1) plans to develop partnerships described in subsection 
        (e)(1); and
            (2) efforts carried out to expedite and accelerate good 
        Samaritan search-and-recovery mission efforts for missing 
        individuals on Federal land under the administrative 
        jurisdiction of each Secretary pursuant to subsection (e)(2).

     TITLE XIX--INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF FIREARMS OR AMMUNITION

SEC. 1901. INTERSTATE TRANSPORTATION OF FIREARMS OR AMMUNITION.

    (a) In General.--Section 926A of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 926A. Interstate transportation of firearms or ammunition
    ``(a) Notwithstanding any provision of any law, rule, or regulation 
of a State or any political subdivision thereof:
            ``(1) A person who is not prohibited by this chapter from 
        possessing, transporting, shipping, or receiving a firearm or 
        ammunition shall be entitled to transport a firearm for any 
        lawful purpose from any place where the person may lawfully 
        possess, carry, or transport the firearm to any other such 
        place if, during the transportation, the firearm is unloaded, 
        and--
                    ``(A) if the transportation is by motor vehicle, 
                the firearm is not directly accessible from the 
                passenger compartment of the vehicle, and, if the 
                vehicle is without a compartment separate from the 
                passenger compartment, the firearm is in a locked 
                container other than the glove compartment or console, 
                or is secured by a secure gun storage or safety device; 
                or
                    ``(B) if the transportation is by other means, the 
                firearm is in a locked container or secured by a secure 
                gun storage or safety device.
            ``(2) A person who is not prohibited by this chapter from 
        possessing, transporting, shipping, or receiving a firearm or 
        ammunition shall be entitled to transport ammunition for any 
        lawful purpose from any place where the person may lawfully 
        possess, carry, or transport the ammunition, to any other such 
        place if, during the transportation, the ammunition is not 
        loaded into a firearm, and--
                    ``(A) if the transportation is by motor vehicle, 
                the ammunition is not directly accessible from the 
                passenger compartment of the vehicle, and, if the 
                vehicle is without a compartment separate from the 
                passenger compartment, the ammunition is in a locked 
                container other than the glove compartment or console; 
                or
                    ``(B) if the transportation is by other means, the 
                ammunition is in a locked container.
    ``(b) In subsection (a), the term `transport' includes staying in 
temporary lodging overnight, stopping for food, fuel, vehicle 
maintenance, an emergency, medical treatment, and any other activity 
incidental to the transport, but does not include transportation--
            ``(1) with the intent to commit a crime punishable by 
        imprisonment for a term exceeding one year that involves the 
        use or threatened use of force against another; or
            ``(2) with knowledge, or reasonable cause to believe, that 
        such a crime is to be committed in the course of, or arising 
        from, the transportation.
    ``(c)(1) A person who is transporting a firearm or ammunition may 
not be arrested or otherwise detained for violation of any law or any 
rule or regulation of a State or any political subdivision thereof 
related to the possession, transportation, or carrying of firearms, 
unless there is probable cause to believe that the person is doing so 
in a manner not provided for in subsection (a).
    ``(2) When a person asserts this section as a defense in a criminal 
proceeding, the prosecution shall bear the burden of proving, beyond a 
reasonable doubt, that the conduct of the person did not satisfy the 
conditions set forth in subsection (a).
    ``(3) When a person successfully asserts this section as a defense 
in a criminal proceeding, the court shall award the prevailing 
defendant a reasonable attorney's fee.
    ``(d)(1) A person who is deprived of any right, privilege, or 
immunity secured by this section, section 926B or 926C, under color of 
any statute, ordinance, regulation, custom, or usage of any State or 
any political subdivision thereof, may bring an action in any 
appropriate court against any other person, including a State or 
political subdivision thereof, who causes the person to be subject to 
the deprivation, for damages and other appropriate relief.
    ``(2) The court shall award a plaintiff prevailing in an action 
brought under paragraph (1) damages and such other relief as the court 
deems appropriate, including a reasonable attorney's fee.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such chapter is 
amended in the item relating to section 926A by striking ``firearms'' 
and inserting ``firearms or ammunition''.

                         TITLE XX--GRAY WOLVES

SEC. 2001. REISSUANCE OF FINAL RULE REGARDING GRAY WOLVES IN THE 
              WESTERN GREAT LAKES.

    Before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall reissue the 
final rule published on December 28, 2011 (76 Fed. Reg. 81666), without 
regard to any other provision of statute or regulation that applies to 
issuance of such rule. Such reissuance shall not be subject to judicial 
review.

SEC. 2002. REISSUANCE OF FINAL RULE REGARDING GRAY WOLVES IN WYOMING.

    Before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall reissue the 
final rule published on September 10, 2012 (77 Fed. Reg. 55530), 
without regard to any other provision of statute or regulation that 
applies to issuance of such rule. Such reissuance shall not be subject 
to judicial review.

                  TITLE XXI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

SEC. 2101. PROHIBITION ON ISSUANCE OF FINAL RULE.

    The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service shall 
not issue a final rule that--
            (1) succeeds the proposed rule entitled ``Non-Subsistence 
        Take of Wildlife, and Public Participation and Closure 
        Procedures, on National Wildlife Refuges in Alaska'' (81 Fed. 
        Reg. 887 (January 8, 2016)); or
            (2) is substantially similar to that proposed rule.

SEC. 2102. WITHDRAWAL OF EXISTING RULE REGARDING HUNTING AND TRAPPING 
              IN ALASKA.

    The Director of the National Park Service shall withdraw the final 
rule entitled ``Alaska; Hunting and Trapping in National Preserves'' 
(80 Fed. Reg. 64325 (October 23, 2015)) by not later than 30 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall not issue a rule that 
is substantially similar to that rule.

            Passed the House of Representatives February 26, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 2406

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To protect and enhance opportunities for recreational hunting, fishing, 
                 and shooting, and for other purposes.
