[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 449 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 449

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       October 1, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3457) to prohibit the lifting of sanctions 
on Iran until the Government of Iran pays the judgments against it for acts of 
terrorism, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; and (2) one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 1735) to authorize 
appropriations for fiscal year 2016 for military activities of the Department of 
Defense, for military construction, and for defense activities of the Department 
of Energy, to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against the conference report and 
against its consideration are waived. The conference report shall be considered 
as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the conference 
report to its adoption without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate; and (2) one motion to recommit if applicable.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of October 
1, 2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules 
as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult 
with the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
