[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2921 Reported in Senate (RS)]

<DOC>





                                                       Calendar No. 467
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2921

To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the accountability of 
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to improve health care 
           and benefits for veterans, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 11, 2016

 Mr. Isakson (for himself, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Tillis, Mr. Tester, Mr. 
Udall, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Rounds, Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Boozman, Mr. Heller, 
Mrs. Murray, Mr. Manchin, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Brown, Mr. Leahy, Mr. Daines, 
 Mr. Sullivan, Mrs. Shaheen, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Nelson, Ms. Cantwell, Ms. 
 Baldwin, Mr. Casey, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Booker, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Moran, Mr. 
 Blunt, Mr. Franken, Ms. Klobuchar, Mr. Heinrich, Mrs. McCaskill, Mr. 
 Murphy, and Mr. Whitehouse) introduced the following bill; which was 
     read twice and referred to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs

                              May 16, 2016

               Reported by Mr. Isakson, without amendment

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the accountability of 
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to improve health care 
           and benefits for veterans, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans First 
Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
             TITLE I--PERSONNEL AND ACCOUNTABILITY MATTERS

   Subtitle A--Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection

Sec. 101. Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection.
Sec. 102. Protection of whistleblowers in Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 103. Treatment of congressional testimony by Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs employees as official 
                            duty.
Sec. 104. Report on methods used to investigate employees of Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs.
             Subtitle B--Supervisors and Senior Executives

Sec. 111. Treatment of Medical Center Directors and Directors of 
                            Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
Sec. 112. Pay for Medical Center Directors and Directors of Veterans 
                            Integrated Service Networks.
Sec. 113. Improved authorities of Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
                            improve accountability of senior 
                            executives.
Sec. 114. Reduction of benefits for members of the Senior Executive 
                            Service within the Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs convicted of certain crimes.
Sec. 115. Independent review and assessment of management training and 
                            appraisal at Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 116. Accountability of leaders for managing the Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 117. Accountability of supervisors at Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs for hiring well-qualified people.
Sec. 118. Accountability of supervisors at Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs for addressing performance of 
                            employees.
Sec. 119. Improvement of training for supervisors.
Sec. 120. Assessment and report on effect on senior executives at 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
                         Subtitle C--Employees

Sec. 121. Removal of employees of Department of Veterans Affairs based 
                            on performance or misconduct.
Sec. 122. Prohibition on award of bonuses to employees of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs under consideration for 
                            adverse actions or subject of adverse 
                            findings.
Sec. 123. Retention of records of reprimands and admonishments received 
                            by employees of the Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 124. Limitation on administrative leave for employees of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 125. Measurement of Department of Veterans Affairs disciplinary 
                            process outcomes and effectiveness.
         Subtitle D--Other Personnel and Accountability Matters

Sec. 131. Written opinion on certain employment restrictions after 
                            terminating employment with the Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 132. Requirement for contractors of the Department employing 
                            certain recently separated Department 
                            employees.
Sec. 133. Department of Veterans Affairs program of internal audits.
                     TITLE II--HEALTH CARE MATTERS

Sec. 200. Short title.
     Subtitle A--Expansion and Improvement of Health Care Benefits

Sec. 201. Improved access to appropriate immunizations for veterans.
Sec. 202. Expansion of provision of chiropractic care and services to 
                            veterans.
Sec. 203. Priority of medal of honor recipients in health care system 
                            of Department of Veterans Affairs.
                     Subtitle B--Mental Health Care

Sec. 211. Veterans Expedited Recovery Commission.
Sec. 212. Mental health treatment for veterans who served in classified 
                            missions.
Sec. 213. Inclusion of mental health professionals in education and 
                            training program for health personnel of 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 214. Expansion of qualifications for licensed mental health 
                            counselors of the Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs to include doctoral degrees.
              Subtitle C--Improvement of Medical Workforce

Sec. 221. Modification of hours of employment for physicians and 
                            physician assistants employed by the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 222. Requirement that physician assistants employed by the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs receive 
                            competitive pay.
Sec. 223. Extension of period for increase in graduate medical 
                            education residency positions at medical 
                            facilities of the Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 224. Additional requirements for hiring of health care providers 
                            by Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 225. Provision of information on health care providers of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs to State 
                            medical boards.
Sec. 226. Report on medical workforce of the Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 227. Report on compliance by Department of Veterans Affairs with 
                            reviews of health care providers leaving 
                            the Department or transferring to other 
                            facilities.
                     Subtitle D--Family Caregivers

Sec. 231. Expansion of family caregiver program of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 232. Implementation of information technology system of Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs to assess and improve 
                            the family caregiver program.
Sec. 233. Modifications to annual evaluation report on caregiver 
                            program of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 234. Advisory committee on caregiver policy.
Sec. 235. Comprehensive study on seriously injured veterans and their 
                            caregivers.
                 Subtitle E--Health Care Administration

Sec. 241. Requirement that Department of Veterans Affairs collect 
                            health-plan contract information from 
                            veterans.
Sec. 242. Expansion of availability of prosthetic and orthotic care for 
                            veterans.
Sec. 243. Revival of Intermediate Care Technician Pilot Program of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 244. Transfer of health care provider credentialing data from 
                            Secretary of Defense to Secretary of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 245. Authority to place certain veterans in non-Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs medical foster homes upon 
                            request.
Sec. 246. Examination and treatment by Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            for emergency medical conditions and women 
                            in labor.
Sec. 247. Comptroller General audit of budget of Veterans Health 
                            Administration.
Sec. 248. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and 
                            furnishing of hospital care, medical 
                            services, and nursing home care.
             Subtitle F--Opioid Therapy and Pain Management

Sec. 251. Guidelines on management of opioid therapy by Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs and Department of Defense 
                            and implementation of such guidelines by 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 252. Improvement of opioid safety measures by Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 253. Enhancement of joint working group on pain management of the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
                            Department of Defense.
Sec. 254. Review, investigation, and report on use of opioids in 
                            treatment by Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 255. Elimination of copayment requirement for veterans receiving 
                            opioid antagonists or education on use of 
                            opioid antagonists.
               Subtitle G--Patient Advocacy and Outreach

Sec. 261. Establishment of Office of Patient Advocacy of the Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 262. Community meetings on improving care from Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 263. Outreach to veterans regarding effect of certain delayed 
                            payments by Chief Business Office of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 264. Improvement of awareness of patient advocacy program and 
                            patient bill of rights of Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 265. Comptroller General Report on Patient Advocacy Program of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
        Subtitle H--Administration of Non-Department Health Care

Sec. 271. Payment of non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care 
                            providers.
Sec. 272. Authorization of agreements between the Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs and non-Department 
                            providers.
Sec. 273. Elimination of requirement to act as secondary payer for care 
                            relating to non-service-connected 
                            disabilities under Choice Program.
Sec. 274. Requirement for advance appropriations for the Medical 
                            Community Care account of the Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 275. Annual transfer of amounts within Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs to pay for health care from non-
                            Department health care providers.
Sec. 276. Authorization of use of certain amounts appropriated to the 
                            Veterans Choice Fund for other non-
                            Department of Veterans Affairs care.
Sec. 277. Applicability of Directive of Office of Federal Contract 
                            Compliance Programs.
                 Subtitle I--Research on Toxic Exposure

Sec. 281. Definitions.
Sec. 282. National Academy of Medicine assessment on research relating 
                            to the descendants of individuals with 
                            toxic exposure.
Sec. 283. Advisory board on research relating to health conditions of 
                            descendants of veterans with toxic exposure 
                            while serving in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 284. Research relating to health conditions of descendants of 
                            veterans with toxic exposure while serving 
                            in the Armed Forces.
                 Subtitle J--Other Health Care Matters

Sec. 291. Authorization of certain major medical facility projects of 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 292. Identification and tracking of biological implants used in 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs medical 
                            facilities.
Sec. 293. Procurement of biological implants used in Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs medical facilities.
Sec. 294. Expansion of research and education on and delivery of 
                            complementary and integrative health to 
                            veterans.
Sec. 295. Pilot program on integration of complementary and integrative 
                            health within Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs medical centers.
Sec. 296. Report on public access to research by Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
             TITLE III--DISABILITY COMPENSATION AND PENSION

Sec. 301. Expedited payment of survivor's benefits.
Sec. 302. Increase in special pension for Medal of Honor recipients.
Sec. 303. Board of Veterans' Appeals video hearings.
Sec. 304. Improvements to authority for performance of medical 
                            disabilities examinations by contract 
                            physicians.
Sec. 305. Department of Veterans Affairs pilot program on fully 
                            developed appeals.
Sec. 306. Requirement that Secretary of Veterans Affairs publish the 
                            average time required to adjudicate timely 
                            and untimely appeals.
Sec. 307. Comptroller General review of claims processing performance 
                            of regional offices of Veterans Benefits 
                            Administration.
Sec. 308. Report on participation of veterans service organizations in 
                            Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 309. Inclusion in annual budget submission of information on 
                            capacity of Veterans Benefits 
                            Administration to process benefits claims.
Sec. 310. Report on staffing levels at regional offices of Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs after transition to 
                            National Work Queue.
Sec. 311. Annual report on progress in implementing Veterans Benefits 
                            Management System.
Sec. 312. Report on plans of Secretary of Veterans Affairs to reduce 
                            inventory of non-rating workload.
Sec. 313. Sense of Congress on increased transparency relating to 
                            claims for benefits and appeals of 
                            decisions relating to benefits in Monday 
                            Morning Workload Report.
Sec. 314. Sense of Congress regarding American veterans disabled for 
                            life.
Sec. 315. Sense of Congress on submittal of information relating to 
                            claims for disabilities incurred or 
                            aggravated by military sexual trauma.
                          TITLE IV--EDUCATION

    Subtitle A--Educational Assistance and Vocational Rehabilitation

Sec. 401. Clarification of eligibility for Marine Gunnery Sergeant John 
                            David Fry Scholarship.
Sec. 402. Restoration of entitlement to Post-9/11 Educational 
                            Assistance for veterans affected by 
                            closures of educational institutions.
Sec. 403. Consideration of eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational 
                            Assistance for certain time on active duty 
                            in reserve components of Armed Forces.
Sec. 404. Approval of courses of education and training for purposes of 
                            the vocational rehabilitation program of 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 405. Authority to prioritize vocational rehabilitation services 
                            based on need.
Sec. 406. Codification and improvement of election process for Post-9/
                            11 Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 407. Work-study allowance.
Sec. 408. Retention of entitlement to educational assistance during 
                            certain additional periods of active duty.
Sec. 409. Eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance for certain 
                            members of reserve components of Armed 
                            Forces who lost entitlement to educational 
                            assistance under Reserve Educational 
                            Assistance Program.
Sec. 410. Reports on progress of students receiving Post-9/11 
                            Educational Assistance.
          Subtitle B--Administration of Educational Assistance

Sec. 421. Centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain 
                            groups, districts, and consortiums of 
                            educational institutions.
Sec. 422. Provision of information regarding veteran entitlement to 
                            educational assistance.
Sec. 423. Role of State approving agencies.
Sec. 424. Criteria used to approve courses.
Sec. 425. Modification of requirements for approval for purposes of 
                            educational assistance provided by 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs of programs 
                            designed to prepare individuals for 
                            licensure or certification.
Sec. 426. Compliance surveys.
Sec. 427. Survey of individuals using their entitlement to educational 
                            assistance under the educational assistance 
                            programs administered by the Secretary of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 428. Technical amendment relating to in-State tuition rate for 
                            individuals to whom entitlement is 
                            transferred under All-Volunteer Force 
                            Educational Assistance Program and Post-9/
                            11 Educational Assistance.
                   TITLE V--EMPLOYMENT AND TRANSITION

Sec. 501. Required coordination between Directors for Veterans' 
                            Employment and Training with State 
                            departments of labor and veterans affairs.
Sec. 502. Longitudinal study of job counseling, training, and placement 
                            service for veterans.
                      TITLE VI--HOMELESS VETERANS

                 Subtitle A--Homeless Matters Generally

Sec. 601. Expansion of definition of homeless veteran for purposes of 
                            benefits under the laws administered by the 
                            Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 602. Increased per diem payments for transitional housing 
                            assistance that becomes permanent housing 
                            for homeless veterans.
Sec. 603. Clarification of eligibility for services under homeless 
                            veterans reintegration programs.
Sec. 604. Program to improve retention of housing by formerly homeless 
                            veterans and veterans at risk of becoming 
                            homeless.
Sec. 605. Pilot program on provision of intensive case management 
                            interventions to homeless veterans who 
                            receive the most health care from the 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 606. Establishment of National Center on Homelessness Among 
                            Veterans.
Sec. 607. Administrative improvements to grant and per diem programs of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 608. Partnerships with public and private entities to provide 
                            legal services to homeless veterans and 
                            veterans at risk of homelessness.
Sec. 609. Comptroller General of the United States study on homeless 
                            veterans programs of Department of Veterans 
                            Affairs.
Sec. 610. Requirement for Department of Veterans Affairs to assess 
                            comprehensive service programs for homeless 
                            veterans.
Sec. 611. Report on outreach relating to increasing the amount of 
                            housing available to veterans.
       Subtitle B--Eligibility of Homeless Veterans for Benefits

Sec. 621. Waiver of minimum period of continuous active duty in Armed 
                            Forces for certain benefits for homeless 
                            veterans.
Sec. 622. Authorization to furnish certain benefits to homeless 
                            veterans with discharges or releases under 
                            other than honorable conditions.
Sec. 623. Modification of definition of veteran for purposes of 
                            providing certain benefits to homeless 
                            veterans.
Sec. 624. Training of personnel of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            and grant recipients.
Sec. 625. Authorization of per diem payments for furnishing care to 
                            dependents of certain homeless veterans.
Sec. 626. Regulations.
Sec. 627. Effective date.
     TITLE VII--UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS

Sec. 701. Extension of temporary increase in number of judges on United 
                            States Court of Appeals for Veterans 
                            Claims.
Sec. 702. Life insurance program relating to judges of United States 
                            Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims.
Sec. 703. Voluntary contributions to enlarge survivors' annuity.
Sec. 704. Selection of chief judge of United States Court of Appeals 
                            for Veterans Claims.
                      TITLE VIII--BURIAL BENEFITS

Sec. 801. Expansion of eligibility for medallions.
Sec. 802. Inurnment of cremated remains in Arlington National Cemetery 
                            of certain persons whose service is deemed 
                            to be active service.
Sec. 803. Report on capacity of Arlington National Cemetery.
Sec. 804. Department of Veterans Affairs study on matters relating to 
                            burial of unclaimed remains of veterans in 
                            national cemeteries.
                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 901. Authority to enter into certain leases at the Department of 
                            Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Campus.
Sec. 902. Restoration of prior reporting fee multipliers.
Sec. 903. Repeal inapplicability of modification of basic allowance for 
                            housing to benefits under laws administered 
                            by Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 904. Observance of Veterans Day.
Sec. 905. Honoring as veterans certain persons who performed service in 
                            the reserve components of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 906. Extension of requirement for collection of fees for housing 
                            loans guaranteed by Secretary of Veterans 
                            Affairs.

             TITLE I--PERSONNEL AND ACCOUNTABILITY MATTERS

   Subtitle A--Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection

SEC. 101. OFFICE OF ACCOUNTABILITY AND WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 323. Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department an 
office to be known as the Office of Accountability and Whistleblower 
Protection (in this section referred to as the `Office').
    ``(b) Head of Office.--(1) The head of the Office shall be 
responsible for the functions of the Office and shall be appointed by 
the President pursuant to section 308(a) of this title.
    ``(2) The head of the Office shall be known as the `Assistant 
Secretary for Accountability and Whistleblower Protection'.
    ``(3) The Assistant Secretary shall report directly to the 
Secretary on all matters relating to the Office.
    ``(4) Notwithstanding section 308(b) of this title, the Secretary 
may only assign to the Assistant Secretary responsibilities relating to 
the functions of the Office set forth in subsection (c).
    ``(c) Functions.--(1) The functions of the Office are as follows:
            ``(A) Advising the Secretary on all matters of the 
        Department relating to accountability, including accountability 
        of employees of the Department, retaliation against 
        whistleblowers, and such matters as the Secretary considers 
        similar and affect public trust in the Department.
            ``(B) Issuing reports and providing recommendations related 
        to the duties described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Receiving whistleblower disclosures.
            ``(D) Referring whistleblower disclosures received under 
        subparagraph (C) for investigation to the Office of the Medical 
        Inspector, the Office of Inspector General, or other 
        investigative entity, as appropriate, if the Assistant 
        Secretary has reason to believe the whistleblower disclosure is 
        evidence of a violation of a provision of law, mismanagement, 
        gross waste of funds, abuse of authority, or a substantial and 
        specific danger to public health and safety.
            ``(E) Receiving and referring disclosures from the Special 
        Counsel for investigation to the Medical Inspector of the 
        Department, the Inspector General of the Department, or such 
        other person with investigatory authority, as the Assistant 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(F) Recording, tracking, reviewing, and confirming 
        implementation of recommendations from audits and 
        investigations carried out by the Inspector General of the 
        Department, the Medical Inspector of the Department, the 
        Special Counsel, and the Comptroller General of the United 
        States, including the imposition of disciplinary actions and 
        other corrective actions contained in such recommendations.
            ``(G) Analyzing data from the Office and the Office of 
        Inspector General telephone hotlines, other whistleblower 
        disclosures, disaggregated by facility and area of health care 
        if appropriate, and relevant audits and investigations to 
        identify trends and issue reports to the Secretary based on 
        analysis conducted under this subparagraph.
            ``(H) Receiving, reviewing, and investigating allegations 
        of misconduct, retaliation, or poor performance involving--
                    ``(i) an individual in a senior executive position 
                (as defined in section 713(d) of this title) in the 
                Department;
                    ``(ii) an individual employed in a confidential, 
                policy-making, policy-determining, or policy-advocating 
                position in the Department; or
                    ``(iii) a supervisory employee, if the allegation 
                involves retaliation against an employee for making a 
                whistleblower disclosure.
            ``(I) Making such recommendations to the Secretary for 
        disciplinary action as the Assistant Secretary considers 
        appropriate after substantiating any allegation of misconduct 
        or poor performance pursuant to an investigation carried out as 
        described in subparagraph (F) or (H).
    ``(2) In carrying out the functions of the Office, the Assistant 
Secretary shall ensure that the Office maintains a toll-free telephone 
number and Internet website to receive anonymous whistleblower 
disclosures.
    ``(3) In any case in which the Assistant Secretary receives a 
whistleblower disclosure from an employee of the Department under 
paragraph (1)(C), the Assistant Secretary may not disclose the identity 
of the employee without the consent of the employee, except in 
accordance with the provisions of section 552a of title 5, or as 
required by any other applicable provision of Federal law.
    ``(d) Staff and Resources.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
Assistant Secretary has such staff, resources, and access to 
information as may be necessary to carry out the functions of the 
Office.
    ``(e) Relation to Office of General Counsel.--The Office shall not 
be established as an element of the Office of the General Counsel and 
the Assistant Secretary may not report to the General Counsel.
    ``(f) Reports.--(1)(A) Not later than June 30 of each calendar 
year, beginning with June 30, 2017, the Assistant Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on the activities of the Office during the calendar year in which the 
report is submitted.
    ``(B) Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall include, 
for the period covered by the report, the following:
            ``(i) A full and substantive analysis of the activities of 
        the Office, including such statistical information as the 
        Assistant Secretary considers appropriate.
            ``(ii) Identification of any issues reported to the 
        Secretary under subsection (c)(1)(G), including such data as 
        the Assistant Secretary considers relevant to such issues and 
        any trends the Assistant Secretary may have identified with 
        respect to such issues.
            ``(iii) Identification of such concerns as the Assistant 
        Secretary may have regarding the size, staffing, and resources 
        of the Office and such recommendations as the Assistant 
        Secretary may have for legislative or administrative action to 
        address such concerns.
            ``(iv) Such recommendations as the Assistant Secretary may 
        have for legislative or administrative action to improve--
                    ``(I) the process by which concerns are reported to 
                the Office; and
                    ``(II) the protection of whistleblowers within the 
                Department.
            ``(v) Such other matters as the Assistant Secretary 
        considers appropriate regarding the functions of the Office or 
        other matters relating to the Office.
    ``(2) If the Secretary receives a recommendation for disciplinary 
action under subsection (c)(1)(I) and does not take or initiate the 
recommended disciplinary action before the date that is 60 days after 
the date on which the Secretary received the recommendation, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a detailed justification for not taking or initiating 
such disciplinary action.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `supervisory employee' means an employee of 
        the Department who is a supervisor as defined in section 
        7103(a) of title 5.
            ``(2) The term `whistleblower' means one who makes a 
        whistleblower disclosure.
            ``(3) The term `whistleblower disclosure' means any 
        disclosure of information by an employee of the Department or 
        individual applying to become an employee of the Department 
        which the employee or individual reasonably believes 
        evidences--
                    ``(A) a violation of a provision of law; or
                    ``(B) gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, 
                an abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific 
                danger to public health or safety.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 308(b) of such title is amended 
by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(12) The functions set forth in section 323(c) of this 
        title.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 3 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``323. Office of Accountability and Whistleblower Protection.''.

SEC. 102. PROTECTION OF WHISTLEBLOWERS IN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new sections:
``Sec. 720. Protection of whistleblowers as criteria in evaluation of 
              supervisors
    ``(a) Development and Use of Criteria Required.--The Secretary, in 
consultation with the Assistant Secretary of Accountability and 
Whistleblower Protection, shall develop criteria that--
            ``(1) the Secretary shall use as a critical element in any 
        evaluation of the performance of a supervisory employee; and
            ``(2) promotes the protection of whistleblowers.
    ``(b) Principles for Protection of Whistleblowers.--The criteria 
required by subsection (a) shall include principles for the protection 
of whistleblowers, such as the degree to which supervisory employees 
respond constructively when employees of the Department report 
concerns, take responsible action to resolve such concerns, and foster 
an environment in which employees of the Department feel comfortable 
reporting concerns to supervisory employees or to the appropriate 
authorities.
    ``(c) Supervisory Employee and Whistleblower Defined.--In this 
section, the terms `supervisory employee' and `whistleblower' have the 
meanings given such terms in section 323 of this title.
``Sec. 721. Training regarding whistleblower disclosures
    ``(a) Training.--Not less frequently than once every two years, the 
Secretary, in coordination with the Whistleblower Protection Ombudsman 
designated under section 3(d)(1)(C) of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), shall provide to each employee of the Department 
training regarding whistleblower disclosures, including--
            ``(1) an explanation of each method established by law in 
        which an employee may file a whistleblower disclosure;
            ``(2) the right of the employee to petition Congress 
        regarding a whistleblower disclosure in accordance with section 
        7211 of title 5;
            ``(3) an explanation that the employee may not be 
        prosecuted or reprised against for disclosing information to 
        Congress, the Inspector General, or another investigatory 
        agency in instances where such disclosure is permitted by law, 
        including under sections 5701, 5705, and 7732 of this title, 
        under section 552a of title 5 (commonly referred to as the 
        Privacy Act), under chapter 93 of title 18, and pursuant to 
        regulations promulgated under section 264(c) of the Health 
        Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (Public 
        Law 104-191);
            ``(4) an explanation of the language that is required to be 
        included in all nondisclosure policies, forms, and agreements 
        pursuant to section 115(a)(1) of the Whistleblower Protection 
        Enhancement Act of 2012 (5 U.S.C. 2302 note); and
            ``(5) the right of contractors to be protected from 
        reprisal for the disclosure of certain information under 
        section 4705 or 4712 of title 41.
    ``(b) Manner Training Is Provided.--The Secretary shall ensure, to 
the maximum extent practicable, that training provided under subsection 
(a) is provided in person.
    ``(c) Certification.--Not less frequently than once every two 
years, the Secretary shall provide training on merit system protection 
in a manner that the Special Counsel certifies as being satisfactory.
    ``(d) Publication.--The Secretary shall publish on the Internet 
website of the Department, and display prominently at each facility of 
the Department, the rights of an employee to make a whistleblower 
disclosure, including the information described in paragraphs (1) 
through (5) of subsection (a).
    ``(e) Whistleblower Disclosure Defined.--In this section, the term 
`whistleblower disclosure' has the meaning given such term in section 
323 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, is amended by adding at the end the following new items:

``720. Protection of whistleblowers as criteria in evaluation of 
                            supervisors.
``721. Training regarding whistleblower disclosures.''.

SEC. 103. TREATMENT OF CONGRESSIONAL TESTIMONY BY DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS EMPLOYEES AS OFFICIAL DUTY.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by section 102, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 722. Congressional testimony by employees: treatment as official 
              duty
    ``(a) Congressional Testimony.--An employee of the Department is 
performing official duty during the period with respect to which the 
employee is testifying in an official capacity in front of either 
chamber of Congress, a committee of either chamber of Congress, or a 
joint or select committee of Congress.
    ``(b) Travel Expenses.--The Secretary shall provide travel 
expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in accordance with 
applicable provisions under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, to 
any employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs performing official 
duty described under subsection (a).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by section 102, is further amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 721 the following new 
item:

``Sec. 722. Congressional testimony by employees: treatment as official 
                            duty.''.

SEC. 104. REPORT ON METHODS USED TO INVESTIGATE EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary for Accountability and 
Whistleblower Protection shall submit to the Secretary, the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on methods used to 
investigate employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs and whether 
such methods are used to retaliate against whistleblowers.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the use of administrative 
        investigation boards, peer review, searches of medical records, 
        and other methods for investigating employees of the 
        Department.
            (2) A determination of whether and to what degree the 
        methods described in paragraph (1) are being used to retaliate 
        against whistleblowers.
            (3) Recommendations for legislative or administrative 
        action to implement safeguards to prevent the retaliation 
        described in paragraph (2).
    (c) Whistleblower Defined.--In this section, the term 
``whistleblower'' has the meaning given such term in section 323 of 
title 38, United States Code, as added by section 101.

             Subtitle B--Supervisors and Senior Executives

SEC. 111. TREATMENT OF MEDICAL CENTER DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS OF 
              VETERANS INTEGRATED SERVICE NETWORKS.

    (a) Establishment of VISN Directors in Office of Under Secretary 
for Health.--Subsection (a)(4) of section 7306 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Such Medical Directors'' and inserting 
        ``Such Medical Center Directors and Directors of Veterans 
        Integrated Service Networks''; and
            (2) by striking ``, who shall be either a qualified doctor 
        of medicine or a qualified doctor of dental surgery or dental 
        medicine''.
    (b) Qualifications.--Such section is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Notwithstanding any provision of law that requires the Office 
of Personnel Management to determine qualifications or certify a 
candidate for appointment under this section, Medical Center Directors 
and Directors of Veterans Integrated Service Networks may be appointed 
under subsection (a)(4) in accordance with qualifications established 
by the Secretary for purposes of this section.''.
    (c) Ability to Transfer.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to such regulations as the 
        Director of the Office of Personnel Management may prescribe, 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Director shall enter 
        into an agreement that permits employees appointed under 
        section 7306(a)(4) of title 38, United States Code, as amended 
        by subsection (a), to transfer to Senior Executive Service 
        positions in other Federal agencies and to be deemed career 
        appointees who are not subject to competition or certification 
        by a qualifications review board under section 3393 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (2) Definitions.--In this subsection, the terms ``Senior 
        Executive Service position'' and ``career appointee'' have the 
        meanings given those terms in section 3132(a) of title 5, 
        United States Code.

SEC. 112. PAY FOR MEDICAL CENTER DIRECTORS AND DIRECTORS OF VETERANS 
              INTEGRATED SERVICE NETWORKS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 74 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subchapter:

  ``Subchapter VII--Pay for Medical Center Directors and Directors of 
                  Veterans Integrated Service Networks

``Sec. 7481. Pay for Medical Center Directors and Directors of Veterans 
              Integrated Service Networks
    ``(a) Elements of Pay.--Pay for a Medical Center Director or 
Director of a Veterans Integrated Service Network appointed under 
section 7306(a)(4) of this title (in this section referred to as a 
`Director') shall consist of basic pay set forth under section 7404(a) 
of this title and market pay determined under subsection (b).
    ``(b) Market Pay.--(1) Each Director is eligible for market pay 
determined under this subsection.
    ``(2) The amount of market pay payable to a Director under this 
section shall be determined by the Secretary on a case-by-case basis 
and shall consist of pay intended to reflect needs of the Department 
with respect to the recruitment and retention (as determined by the 
Secretary) of such Director.
    ``(3) In determining the amount of market pay payable to a Director 
under this section, the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) consult not fewer than two national surveys on pay 
        for hospital directors, medical facility directors, or other 
        similar positions, whether prepared by private, public, or 
        quasi-public entities, to make a general assessment of the 
        range of potential pay for the Director; and
            ``(B) take into account--
                    ``(i) the experience of the Director in managing 
                facilities or program offices of the Department, 
                including the complexity of such facilities or offices;
                    ``(ii) the complexity of the facility or facilities 
                to be managed by the Director;
                    ``(iii) the labor market, in such geographic area 
                as the Secretary considers relevant, for hospital 
                directors, medical facility directors, and other 
                similar positions;
                    ``(iv) the experience of the Director in managing 
                medical facilities for other Federal agencies, private 
                entities, or non-profit entities; and
                    ``(v) such other considerations as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
    ``(4)(A) The Secretary shall evaluate the amount of market pay 
payable to a Director under this section not less frequently than once 
every two years and may adjust the market pay payable to such Director 
as a result of such evaluation.
    ``(B) A Director whose market pay is evaluated under subparagraph 
(A) shall receive written notice of the results of such evaluation.
    ``(c) Requirements and Limitations on Total Pay.--(1) Not less 
frequently than once every two years, the Secretary shall set forth a 
departmentwide minimum and maximum amount for total annual pay under 
subsection (a) that may be paid to a Director and shall publish each 
such amount in the Federal Register.
    ``(2) The minimum and maximum amounts set forth under paragraph (1) 
shall take effect not earlier than the date that is 60 days after the 
publication of such amounts under such paragraph.
    ``(3) The sum of the basic pay set forth under section 7404(a) of 
this title and market pay determined under subsection (b) for a 
Director for a calendar year--
            ``(A) may not be less than the most recent minimum amount 
        set forth under paragraph (1) before the beginning of such 
        calendar year; and
            ``(B) may not be more than the most recent maximum amount 
        set forth under such paragraph before the beginning of such 
        calendar year.
    ``(4) The total amount of compensation paid to a Director under 
this title in any calendar year may not exceed the amount of annual 
compensation (excluding expenses) of the President under section 102 of 
title 3.
    ``(5) The Secretary may not delegate to an officer or employee of 
the Department the requirement of the Secretary to set forth a 
departmentwide minimum and maximum amount under paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Treatment of Pay.--Pay under this section shall be considered 
pay for all purposes, including retirement benefits under chapters 83 
and 84 of title 5 and other benefits.
    ``(e) Ancillary Effects of Decreases in Pay.--(1) A decrease in pay 
of a Director resulting from an adjustment in the amount of market pay 
of the Director under subsection (b) shall not be treated as an adverse 
action.
    ``(2) A decrease in the amount of pay of a Director resulting from 
an involuntary reassignment in connection with a disciplinary action 
taken against the Director is not subject to appeal or judicial 
review.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 74 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:

  ``subchapter vii. pay for medical center directors and directors of 
                  veterans integrated service networks

``7481. Pay for Medical Center Directors and Directors of Veterans 
                            Integrated Service Networks.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

SEC. 113. IMPROVED AUTHORITIES OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO 
              IMPROVE ACCOUNTABILITY OF SENIOR EXECUTIVES.

    (a) Accountability of Senior Executives.--
            (1) In general.--Section 713 of title 38, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 713. Accountability of senior executives
    ``(a) Authority.--(1) The Secretary may, as provided in this 
section, reprimand or suspend, involuntarily reassign, demote, or 
remove a covered individual from a senior executive position at the 
Department if the Secretary determines that the misconduct or 
performance of the covered individual warrants such action.
    ``(2) If the Secretary so removes such an individual, the Secretary 
may remove the individual from the civil service (as defined in section 
2101 of title 5).
    ``(b) Rights and Procedures.--(1) A covered individual who is the 
subject of an action under subsection (a) is entitled to--
            ``(A) be represented by an attorney or other representative 
        of the covered individual's choice;
            ``(B) not fewer than 10 business days advance written 
        notice of the charges and evidence supporting the action and an 
        opportunity to respond, in a manner prescribed by the 
        Secretary, before a decision is made regarding the action; and
            ``(C) grieve the action in accordance with an internal 
        grievance process that the Secretary, in consultation with the 
        Assistant Secretary for Accountability and Whistleblower 
        Protection, shall establish for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary shall ensure that the grievance process 
established under paragraph (1)(C) takes fewer than 21 days.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall ensure that, under the process 
established pursuant to paragraph (1)(C), grievances are reviewed only 
by employees of the Department.
    ``(3) A decision or grievance decision under paragraph (1)(C) shall 
be final and conclusive.
    ``(4) A covered individual adversely affected by a final decision 
under paragraph (1)(C) may obtain judicial review of the decision.
    ``(5) In any case in which judicial review is sought under 
paragraph (4), the court shall review the record and may set aside any 
Department action found to be--
            ``(A) arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or 
        otherwise not in accordance with a provision of law;
            ``(B) obtained without procedures required by a provision 
        of law having been followed; or
            ``(C) unsupported by substantial evidence.
    ``(c) Relation to Other Provisions of Law.--(1) The authority 
provided by subsection (a) is in addition to the authority provided by 
section 3592 or subchapter V of chapter 75 of title 5.
    ``(2) Section 3592(b)(1) of title 5 and the procedures under 
section 7543(b) of such title do not apply to an action under 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `covered individual' means--
                    ``(A) a career appointee (as that term is defined 
                in section 3132(a)(4) of title 5); or
                    ``(B) any individual who occupies an administrative 
                or executive position and who was appointed under 
                section 7306(a) or section 7401(1) of this title.
            ``(2) The term `misconduct' includes neglect of duty, 
        malfeasance, or failure to accept a directed reassignment or to 
        accompany a position in a transfer of function.
            ``(3) The term `senior executive position' means--
                    ``(A) with respect to a career appointee (as that 
                term is defined in section 3132(a) of title 5), a 
                Senior Executive Service position (as such term is 
                defined in such section); and
                    ``(B) with respect to a covered individual 
                appointed under section 7306(a) or section 7401(1) of 
                this title, an administrative or executive position.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 7461(c)(1) of such title 
        is amended by inserting ``employees in senior executive 
        positions (as defined in section 713(d) of this title) and'' 
        before ``interns''.
    (b) Performance Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        establish a performance management system for employees in 
        senior executive positions, as defined in section 713(d) of 
        title 38, United States Code, as amended by subsection (a), 
        that ensures performance ratings and awards given to such 
        employees--
                    (A) meaningfully differentiate extraordinary from 
                satisfactory contributions; and
                    (B) substantively reflect organizational 
                achievements over which the employee has responsibility 
                and control.
            (2) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations 
        to carry out paragraph (1).

SEC. 114. REDUCTION OF BENEFITS FOR MEMBERS OF THE SENIOR EXECUTIVE 
              SERVICE WITHIN THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              CONVICTED OF CERTAIN CRIMES.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by subtitle A, is further amended by inserting after section 
713 the following new section:
``Sec. 714. Senior executives: reduction of benefits of individuals 
              convicted of certain crimes
    ``(a) Reduction of Annuity for Removed Individual.--The covered 
service of an individual removed from a senior executive position at 
the Department by the Secretary for performance or misconduct shall not 
be considered creditable service under section 8332 or section 8411 of 
title 5 for purposes of calculating an annuity with respect to such 
individual under chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title if the 
individual is convicted of a felony (and the conviction is final) that 
was related, as determined by the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, to the individual's performance while employed in such 
senior executive position.
    ``(b) Reduction of Annuity for Retired Individual.--(1) The 
Secretary may order that the covered service of an individual who is 
subject to a removal or transfer from a senior executive position at 
the Department by the Secretary for performance or misconduct but who 
leaves employment at the Department prior to the issuance of a final 
decision with respect to such removal or transfer shall not be 
considered creditable service under section 8332 or section 8411 of 
title 5 for purposes of calculating an annuity with respect to such 
individual under chapter 83 or chapter 84 of such title if the 
individual is convicted of a felony (and the conviction is final) that 
was related, as determined by the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, to the individual's performance while employed in such 
senior executive position.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall make such an order not later than seven 
days after the date on which such individual is convicted of such 
felony.
    ``(3) Not later than 30 days after the Secretary issues any order 
with respect to an individual under paragraph (1), the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management shall recalculate the annuity of the 
individual.
    ``(c) Lump-sum Annuity Credit.--Any individual with respect to whom 
an annuity is reduced under subsection (a) or (b) shall be entitled to 
be paid so much of such individual's lump-sum credit as is attributable 
to the period of covered service.
    ``(d) Review of Reduction of Annuity.--Any individual with respect 
to whom an annuity is reduced under subsection (a) or (b) may appeal 
the reduction to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
pursuant to such regulations as the Director may prescribe for purposes 
of this section.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `covered service' means, with respect to an 
        individual subject to a removal or transfer from a senior 
        executive position at the Department for performance or 
        misconduct, the period of service beginning on the date that 
        the Secretary determines under such section that such 
        individual engaged in activity that gave rise to such action 
        and ending on the date that such individual is removed from the 
        civil service or leaves employment at the Department prior to 
        the issuance of a final decision with respect to such action, 
        as the case may be.
            ``(2) The term `lump-sum credit' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 8331 or 8401 of title 5, as the case may be.
            ``(3) The term `senior executive position' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 713(d) of this title.
            ``(4) The term `service' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 8331 or 8401 of title 5, as the case may be.''.
    (b) Application.--Section 714 of such title, as added by subsection 
(a), shall apply to any action of removal or transfer from a senior 
executive position (as defined in section 713(d) of such title) at the 
Department of Veterans Affairs commencing on or after the date of the 
enactment of this title.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by subtitle A, is further amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 713 the following new item:

``714. Senior executives: reduction of benefits of individuals 
                            convicted of certain crimes.''.

SEC. 115. INDEPENDENT REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF MANAGEMENT TRAINING AND 
              APPRAISAL AT DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Review and Assessment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this title, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall enter into a contract with a nongovernmental entity to 
        review and assess the following:
                    (A) The management training program for individuals 
                employed in senior executive positions of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs that is being provided 
                as of the date of the enactment of this title.
                    (B) The performance appraisal system of the 
                Department in effect on the day before the date of the 
                enactment of this title for individuals employed in 
                senior executive positions.
            (2) Elements.--The review and assessment required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following:
                    (A) A comparison of the training provided by the 
                Department to the management training provided for 
                senior executives of other Federal departments and 
                agencies and to the management training provided to 
                senior executives in the private sector.
                    (B) Recommendations for improving the program 
                described in paragraph (1)(A).
                    (C) Recommendations for improving the system 
                described in paragraph (1)(B).
                    (D) An assessment of the ability of the Department 
                to attract and develop employees suitable for senior 
                executive service positions of the Department.
                    (E) An assessment of the leadership and management 
                actions of the Department resulting from Department of 
                Veterans Affairs Performance and Accountability Reports 
                submitted in the two most recent fiscal years ending 
                before the date of the enactment of this title.
                    (F) A review of the strategy of the Secretary 
                called ``Lean Management''.
                    (G) An assessment of the compliance of the 
                Department with provisions of law added or amended by 
                the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-352) 
                and an explanation of the changes made to the 
                Department and the activities carried out by the 
                Secretary in response to the enactment of such Act.
                    (H) An assessment of the results of the most recent 
                Annual Employee Survey carried out pursuant to part 250 
                of title 5, Code of Federal Regulations.
                    (I) An assessment of the efforts of the Secretary 
                to conduct data-driven reviews and develop a results-
                oriented culture pursuant to part 6 of Circular A-11 of 
                the Office of Management and Budget.
                    (J) An assessment of the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs Federal Performance Improvement Officer role 
                and oversight function.
                    (K) A survey of the morale of employees and their 
                satisfaction with their work and work environment in 
                each Department of Veterans Affairs staff organization, 
                staff office, and administration as described by 
                Directive 0211 of the Department and provided for in 
                version 3.0a of the Functional Organization Manual of 
                the Department.
            (3) Report to secretary.--The contract required by 
        paragraph (1) shall provide that the nongovernmental entity 
        must complete and submit to the Secretary a report containing 
        the findings and conclusions of the review by not later than 
        180 days after the date on which the Secretary and the 
        nongovernmental entity enter into the contract.
    (b) Report to Congress.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
which the Secretary receives the report under subsection (a)(3), the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives the report together with a plan for carrying out the 
recommendations contained in the report or, as the case may be, a 
detailed explanation and justification for the Secretary's 
determination not to implement any of the recommendations contained in 
the report.
    (c) Senior Executive Position Defined.--In this section, the term 
``senior executive position'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 713(d) of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 116. ACCOUNTABILITY OF LEADERS FOR MANAGING THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
further amended by inserting after section 709 the following new 
section:
``Sec. 710. Annual performance plan for political appointees
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall conduct an annual 
performance plan for each political appointee of the Department that is 
similar to the annual performance plan conducted for an employee of the 
Department who is appointed as a career appointee in a Senior Executive 
Service position at the Department.
    ``(b) Elements of Plan.--Each annual performance plan conducted 
under subsection (a) with respect to a political appointee of the 
Department shall include, to the extent applicable, an assessment of 
whether the appointee is meeting the following goals:
            ``(1) Recruiting, selecting, and retaining well-qualified 
        individuals for employment at the Department.
            ``(2) Engaging and motivating employees.
            ``(3) Training and developing employees and preparing those 
        employees for future leadership roles within the Department.
            ``(4) Holding each employee of the Department that is a 
        supervisor accountable for addressing issues relating to 
        performance, in particular issues relating to the performance 
        of employees that report to the supervisor.
            ``(5) Promoting a positive culture of service that--
                    ``(A) reflects the mission of the Department and 
                the values of integrity, commitment, advocacy, respect, 
                and excellence; and
                    ``(B) emphasizes the greatest degree of performance 
                and conduct.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The terms `career appointee' and `Senior Executive 
        Service position' have the meanings given such terms in section 
        3132(a) of title 5.
            ``(2) The term `supervisor' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 7103(a) of such title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is further amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 709 the following new item:

``710. Annual performance plan for political appointees.''.

SEC. 117. ACCOUNTABILITY OF SUPERVISORS AT DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS FOR HIRING WELL-QUALIFIED PEOPLE.

    (a) Assessment During Probationary Period.--
            (1) Determination required.--With respect to any employee 
        of the Department of Veterans Affairs who is required to serve 
        a probationary period in a position in the Department, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall require the supervisor of 
        such employee to determine, during the 30-day period ending on 
        the date on which the probationary period ends, whether the 
        employee--
                    (A) has demonstrated successful performance; and
                    (B) should continue past the probationary period.
            (2) Limitation on employment after probationary period.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), no employee of the Department serving a 
                probationary period as described in paragraph (1) may 
                complete that probationary period unless and until the 
                supervisor of the employee, or another supervisor 
                capable of making the requisite determination, has made 
                an affirmative determination under such paragraph.
                    (B) Probationary period deemed completed.--
                            (i) No determination.--If no determination 
                        under paragraph (1) is made with respect to an 
                        employee before the end of the 60-day period 
                        following the end of the 30-day period 
                        specified in such paragraph, the employee shall 
                        be deemed to have completed the probationary 
                        period of the employee effective as of the end 
                        of that 60-day period.
                            (ii) Retroactive effect of determination.--
                        If an affirmative determination under paragraph 
                        (1) is made with respect to an employee after 
                        the end of the 30-day period specified in such 
                        paragraph, the employee shall be deemed to have 
                        completed the probationary period of the 
                        employee effective as of the end of that 30-day 
                        period.
            (3) Notification to congress regarding determinations.--Not 
        less frequently than monthly, the Secretary shall notify the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        regarding--
                    (A) each instance during such month in which a 
                supervisor did not make a determination required under 
                paragraph (1) during the period required in such 
                paragraph; and
                    (B) each such instance included in a previous 
                notification under this paragraph for which the 
                supervisor still has not made such a determination.
    (b) Supervisors.--With respect to any employee of the Department 
who is serving a probationary period in a supervisory position at the 
Department, successful performance under subsection (a) shall include 
demonstrating management competencies in addition to the technical 
skills required for such position.
    (c) Performance Plan.--Each annual performance plan conducted for a 
supervisor of an employee serving a probationary period shall hold the 
supervisor accountable for--
            (1) providing regular feedback to such employee during such 
        period before making a determination under subsection (a) 
        regarding the probationary status of such employee; and
            (2) making a timely determination under subsection (a) 
        regarding the probationary status of such employee.
    (d) Supervisor Defined.--In this section, the term ``supervisor'' 
has the meaning given such term in section 7103(a) of title 5, United 
States Code.

SEC. 118. ACCOUNTABILITY OF SUPERVISORS AT DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS FOR ADDRESSING PERFORMANCE OF EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure 
that, as a part of the annual performance plan of a supervisor in the 
Department, the supervisor is evaluated on the following:
            (1) Taking action to address poor performance and 
        misconduct among the employees that report to the supervisor.
            (2) Taking steps to improve or sustain high levels of 
        employee engagement.
            (3) Promoting a positive culture of service that--
                    (A) reflects the mission of the Department and the 
                values of integrity, commitment, advocacy, respect, and 
                excellence; and
                    (B) emphasizes the greatest degree of performance 
                and conduct.
    (b) Supervisor Defined.--In this section, the term ``supervisor'' 
has the meaning given such term in section 7103(a) of title 5, United 
States Code.

SEC. 119. IMPROVEMENT OF TRAINING FOR SUPERVISORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide to 
each employee of the Department of Veterans Affairs who is employed as 
a supervisor periodic training on the following:
            (1) The rights of whistleblowers and how to address a 
        report by an employee of a hostile work environment, reprisal, 
        or harassment.
            (2) How to effectively motivate, manage, and reward the 
        employees who report to the supervisor.
            (3) How to effectively manage employees who are performing 
        at an unacceptable level and access assistance from the human 
        resources office of the Department and the Office of the 
        General Counsel of the Department with respect to those 
        employees.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Supervisor.--The term ``supervisor'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 7103(a) of title 5, United States 
        Code.
            (2) Whistleblower.--The term ``whistleblower'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 323(g) of title 38, United 
        States Code, as added by section 101.

SEC. 120. ASSESSMENT AND REPORT ON EFFECT ON SENIOR EXECUTIVES AT 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall--
            (1) measure and assess the effect of the enactment of this 
        title on the morale, engagement, hiring, promotion, retention, 
        discipline, and productivity of individuals in senior executive 
        positions at the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the findings of the Secretary with 
        respect to the measurement and assessment carried out under 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a)(1) shall 
include the following:
            (1) With respect to engagement, trends in morale of 
        individuals in senior executive positions and individuals 
        aspiring to senior executive positions.
            (2) With respect to promotions--
                    (A) whether the Department is experiencing an 
                increase or decrease in the number of employees 
                participating in leadership development and candidate 
                development programs with the intention of becoming 
                candidates for senior executive positions; and
                    (B) trends in applications to senior executive 
                positions within the Department.
            (3) With respect to retention--
                    (A) trends in retirement rates of individuals in 
                senior executive positions at the Department;
                    (B) trends in quit rates of individuals in senior 
                executive positions at the Department;
                    (C) rates of transfer of--
                            (i) individuals from other Federal agencies 
                        into senior executive positions at the 
                        Department; and
                            (ii) individuals from senior executive 
                        positions at the Department to other Federal 
                        agencies; and
                    (D) trends in total loss rates by job function.
            (4) With respect to disciplinary processes--
                    (A) regarding individuals in senior executive 
                positions at the Department who are the subject of 
                disciplinary action--
                            (i) the length of the disciplinary process 
                        in days for such individuals both before the 
                        date of the enactment of this Act and under the 
                        provisions of this Act described in subsection 
                        (a)(1); and
                            (ii) the extent to which appeals by such 
                        individuals are upheld under such provisions as 
                        compared to before the date of the enactment of 
                        this Act;
                    (B) the components or offices of the Department 
                which experience the greatest number of proposed 
                adverse actions against individuals in senior executive 
                positions and components and offices which experience 
                the least relative to the size of the components or 
                offices' total number of senior executive positions;
                    (C) the tenure of individuals in senior executive 
                positions who are the subject of disciplinary action;
                    (D) whether the individuals in senior executive 
                positions who are the subject of disciplinary action 
                have previously been disciplined; and
                    (E) the number of instances of disciplinary action 
                taken by the Secretary against individuals in senior 
                executive positions at the Department as compared to 
                governmentwide discipline against individuals in Senior 
                Executive Service positions (as defined in section 
                3132(a) of title 5, United States Code) as a percentage 
                of the total number of individuals in senior executive 
                positions at the Department and Senior Executive 
                Service positions (as so defined).
            (5) With respect to hiring--
                    (A) the degree to which the skills of newly hired 
                individuals in senior executive positions at the 
                Department are appropriate with respect to the needs of 
                the Department;
                    (B) the types of senior executive positions at the 
                Department most commonly filled under the authorities 
                in the provisions described in subsection (a)(1);
                    (C) the number of senior executive positions at the 
                Department filled by hires outside of the Department 
                compared to hires from within the Department;
                    (D) the length of time to fill a senior executive 
                position at the Department and for a new hire to begin 
                working in a new senior executive position;
                    (E) the mission-critical deficiencies filled by 
                newly hired individuals in senior executive positions 
                and the connection between mission-critical 
                deficiencies filled under the provisions described in 
                subsection (a) and annual performance of the 
                Department;
                    (F) the satisfaction of applicants for senior 
                executive positions at the Department with the hiring 
                process, including the clarity of job announcements, 
                reasons for withdrawal of applications, communication 
                regarding status of applications, and timeliness of 
                hiring decision; and
                    (G) the satisfaction of newly hired individuals in 
                senior executive positions at the Department with the 
                hiring process and the process of joining and becoming 
                oriented with the Department.
    (c) Senior Executive Position Defined.--In this section, the term 
``senior executive position'' has the meaning given such term in 
section 713 of title 38, United States Code.

                         Subtitle C--Employees

SEC. 121. REMOVAL OF EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS BASED 
              ON PERFORMANCE OR MISCONDUCT.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by subtitles A and B, is further amended by inserting after 
section 714, as added by section 114, the following new section:
``Sec. 715. Employees: removal based on performance or misconduct
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary may remove a covered 
individual who is an employee of the Department if the Secretary 
determines that--
            ``(A) the performance or misconduct of the covered 
        individual warrants such removal; and
            ``(B) in the case of removal for performance, a portion of 
        such performance occurred during the two-year period ending on 
        the date of the determination.
    ``(2) If the Secretary removes a covered individual under paragraph 
(1), the Secretary may remove the covered individual from the civil 
service (as defined in section 2101 of title 5).
    ``(3) Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize a 
finalized performance appraisal of an employee to be retroactively 
amended.
    ``(b) Notice to Congress.--Not later than 30 days after removing a 
covered individual under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to 
the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of 
Representatives notice in writing of such removal and the reason for 
such removal.
    ``(c) Procedure.--(1) An employee removed under subsection (a) is 
entitled, before removal, to--
            ``(A) at least 10 business days written notice (which, in 
        the case of removal for performance, shall identify specific 
        instances as described in clause (i) of section 4303(b)(1)(A) 
        of title 5 and critical elements as described in clause (ii) of 
        such section), unless there is reasonable cause to believe that 
        the employee committed a crime for which a sentence of 
        imprisonment can be imposed--
                    ``(i) stating the specific reasons for the proposed 
                action; and
                    ``(ii) including a file containing all evidence in 
                support of the proposed action;
            ``(B) 10 business days to answer the charges orally and in 
        writing and to furnish affidavits and other documentary 
        evidence in support of the answer;
            ``(C) be represented by an attorney or other 
        representative;
            ``(D) a review of the case by the Secretary before a 
        decision adverse to the employee is made final;
            ``(E) as soon as practicable, a decision of the Secretary 
        with respect to the charges of the employee; and
            ``(F) a written statement of the decision of the Secretary 
        that--
                    ``(i) includes the specific reasons of the 
                decision; and
                    ``(ii) in the case of a removal based on 
                performance, complies with section 4303(b)(1)(D) of 
                title 5.
    ``(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B) and subsection (e), any final 
decision of the Secretary regarding removal under subsection (a) may be 
appealed to the Merit Systems Protection Board.
    ``(B) An appeal under subparagraph (A) of a removal may only be 
made if such appeal is made not later than 10 business days after the 
date of such removal.
    ``(C)(i) Subject to clause (ii), the decision of the Secretary 
shall be sustained under subparagraph (A) only if the Secretary's 
decision--
            ``(I) in the case of an action based on performance, is 
        supported by substantial evidence; or
            ``(II) in any other case, is supported by a preponderance 
        of the evidence.
    ``(ii) Notwithstanding clause (i), the Secretary's decision may not 
be sustained under subparagraph (A) if the covered individual--
            ``(I) shows harmful error in the application of the 
        Secretary's procedures in arriving at such decision;
            ``(II) shows that the decision was based on any prohibited 
        personnel practice described in section 2302(b) of title 5; or
            ``(III) shows that the decision was not in accordance with 
        law.
    ``(3) The procedures under section 7513(b) of title 5 and chapter 
43 of such title shall not apply to a removal under this section.
    ``(d) Expedited Review.--(1) The Merit Systems Protection Board 
shall promulgate such rules as the Board considers appropriate to 
expedite appeals under subsection (c)(2).
    ``(2) The Board shall ensure that a final decision on an appeal 
described in paragraph (1) is issued not later than 90 days after the 
appeal is made.
    ``(3) During the period beginning on the date on which a covered 
individual appeals a removal from the civil service under subsection 
(c)(2) and ending on the date that the Board issues a final decision on 
such appeal, such covered individual may not receive any pay, awards, 
bonuses, incentives, allowances, differentials, student loan 
repayments, special payments, or benefits.
    ``(4) To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary shall 
provide to the Merit Systems Protection Board such information and 
assistance as may be necessary to ensure an appeal under subsection 
(c)(2) is expedited.
    ``(e) Relation to Title 5.--The authority provided by this section 
is in addition to the authority provided by subchapter V of chapter 75 
of title 5 and chapter 43 of such title.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `covered individual' means an individual 
        occupying a position at the Department but does not include--
                    ``(A) an individual, as that term is defined in 
                section 713(d); or
                    ``(B) a political appointee.
            ``(2) The term `misconduct' includes a violation of 
        paragraph (8) or (9) of section 2302(b) of title 5, neglect of 
        duty, malfeasance, or failure to accept a directed reassignment 
        or to accompany a position in a transfer of function.
            ``(3) The term `political appointee' means an individual 
        who is--
                    ``(A) employed in a position described under 
                sections 5312 through 5316 of title 5 (relating to the 
                Executive Schedule);
                    ``(B) a limited term appointee, limited emergency 
                appointee, or noncareer appointee in the Senior 
                Executive Service, as defined under paragraphs (5), 
                (6), and (7), respectively, of section 3132(a) of title 
                5; or
                    ``(C) employed in a position of a confidential or 
                policy-determining character under schedule C of 
                subpart C of part 213 of title 5 of the Code of Federal 
                Regulations.''.
    (b) Clerical and Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Clerical.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
        such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
        section 714, as added by section 114, the following new item:

``715. Employees: removal based on performance or misconduct.''.
            (2) Conforming.--
                    (A) Title 5.--Section 4303(f) of title 5, United 
                States Code, is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at 
                        the end;
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking the 
                        period at the end and inserting ``, or''; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) any removal under section 715 of title 38.''.
                    (B) Title 38.--Subchapter V of chapter 74 of title 
                38, United States Code, is amended--
                            (i) in section 7461(b)(1), by striking ``If 
                        the'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
                        section 715 of this title, if the''; and
                            (ii) in section 7462--
                                    (I) in subsection (a)(1), by 
                                striking ``Disciplinary'' and inserting 
                                ``Except as provided in section 715 of 
                                this title, the Disciplinary''; and
                                    (II) in subsection (b)(1), by 
                                striking ``In any case'' and inserting 
                                ``Except as provided in section 715 of 
                                this title, in any case''.

SEC. 122. PROHIBITION ON AWARD OF BONUSES TO EMPLOYEES OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS UNDER CONSIDERATION FOR ADVERSE ACTIONS 
              OR SUBJECT OF ADVERSE FINDINGS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
further amended by inserting after section 715, as added by section 
121, the following new section:
``Sec. 716. Prohibition on award of bonuses to employees under 
              consideration for adverse actions or subject of adverse 
              findings
    ``(a) Under Consideration for Adverse Action.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of law, the Secretary may not pay any bonus to any 
employee of the Department, including an employee in a senior executive 
position (as defined in section 713(d) of this title), while the 
Secretary is considering carrying out an adverse personnel action with 
respect to the employee under this title or title 5.
    ``(b) Subject of Adverse Finding.--(1) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, in a case in which the Secretary makes an adverse 
finding relating to an employee of the Department, the Secretary may 
not award a bonus to such employee until the earlier of--
            ``(A) such date as the Secretary considers appropriate, but 
        not sooner than the date that is two years after the end of the 
        fiscal year in which the adverse finding was made and not more 
        than five years after the end of such fiscal year; or
            ``(B) the date that the finding is found to have been made 
        in error.
    ``(2) The Secretary may base an adverse finding under paragraph (1) 
on an investigation by, determination of, or information provided by 
the Inspector General of the Department or another senior ethics 
official of the Department or the Comptroller General of the United 
States in connection with the carrying out by such official of an 
activity, authority, or function under a provision of law other than 
this section.
    ``(c) Previously Awarded Bonuses.--(1) If the Secretary makes an 
adverse finding relating to an employee under subsection (b), the 
Secretary, after notice and an opportunity for a hearing, shall issue 
an order directing the employee to repay the amount of any bonus 
awarded to the employee during the year during which the adverse 
finding is made, unless such finding is found to have been made in 
error.
    ``(2) A hearing under paragraph (1) shall be conducted in 
accordance with regulations relating to hearings promulgated by the 
Secretary under chapter 75 of title 5.
    ``(d) Condition of Receipt.--As a condition of receiving a bonus 
awarded after the date of the enactment of this section, an employee of 
the Department shall sign a certification stating that the employee 
shall repay the bonus in accordance with a final order issued in 
accordance with subsection (c).
    ``(e) Appeal.--An employee determined to be ineligible for a bonus 
under subsection (b) or against whom an order is issued under 
subsection (c) may appeal to the Merit Systems Protection Board under 
section 7701 of title 5.
    ``(f) Rulemaking.--The Secretary may promulgate such rules as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to carry out this section.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `adverse finding' relating to an employee 
        means a determination that the conduct of the employee--
                    ``(A) violated a policy of the Department for which 
                the employee may be removed or suspended for a period 
                of not less than 14 days; or
                    ``(B) violated a law for which the employee may be 
                imprisoned for more than 1 year.
            ``(2) The term `adverse personnel action' means any of the 
        adverse actions described in section 7461(c)(2) of this title.
            ``(3) The term `bonus' means any bonus or cash award, 
        including--
                    ``(A) an award under chapter 45 of title 5;
                    ``(B) an award under section 5384 of such title; 
                and
                    ``(C) a retention bonus under section 5754 of such 
                title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is further amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 715, as added by section 121, the following new item:

``716. Prohibition on award of bonuses to employees under consideration 
                            for adverse actions or subject of adverse 
                            findings.''.

SEC. 123. RETENTION OF RECORDS OF REPRIMANDS AND ADMONISHMENTS RECEIVED 
              BY EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
further amended by inserting after section 716, as added by section 
122, the following new section:
``Sec. 717. Record of reprimands and admonishments
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), if any 
employee of the Department receives a reprimand or admonishment from 
the Secretary, the Secretary shall retain a copy of such reprimand or 
admonishment in the permanent record of the employee for not less than 
three years after the date on which the employee received the reprimand 
or admonishment.
    ``(b) Removal.--After the end of the three-year period specified in 
subsection (a) with respect to a reprimand or admonishment received by 
an employee, the Secretary shall remove the reprimand or admonishment, 
as the case may be, from the permanent record of the employee on the 
earlier of the following:
            ``(1) The date on which the Secretary determines that the 
        reprimand or admonishment merits removal from the permanent 
        record of the employee.
            ``(2) The date that is five years after the date on which 
        the employee received the reprimand or admonishment.
    ``(c) Appeals.--If an employee receives a reprimand or admonishment 
that the employee believes he or she received improperly, the employee 
may immediately appeal the reprimand or admonishment.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is further amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 716, as added by section 122, the following new item:

``717. Record of reprimands and admonishments.''.

SEC. 124. LIMITATION ON ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE FOR EMPLOYEES OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, is 
further amended by inserting after section 717, as added by section 
123, the following new section:
``Sec. 718. Administrative leave limitation and report
    ``(a) Limitation Applicable to Employees Within the Department.--
(1) The Secretary may not place any covered individual on 
administrative leave for more than a total of 14 business days during 
any 365-day period.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary may waive the limitation under paragraph (1) 
and extend the period of administrative leave of a covered individual 
if the Secretary submits to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a detailed explanation of the reasons the covered 
individual was placed on administrative leave and the reasons for the 
extension of such leave.
    ``(B) Such explanation shall include the position of the covered 
individual and the location where the covered individual is employed.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `covered individual' means an 
employee of the Department, including an employee in a senior executive 
position (as defined in section 713(d) of this title)--
            ``(A) who is subject to an investigation for purposes of 
        determining whether such individual should be subject to any 
        disciplinary action under this title or title 5; or
            ``(B) against whom any disciplinary action is proposed or 
        initiated under this title or title 5.
    ``(b) Report on Administrative Leave.--(1) Not later than 30 days 
after the end of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report listing the 
position of each employee of the Department (if any) who has been 
placed on administrative leave for a period longer than 14 business 
days during such fiscal year.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, with 
respect to each employee listed in such report, the following:
            ``(A) The position occupied by the employee.
            ``(B) The number of business days of such leave.
            ``(C) The reason that such employee was placed on such 
        leave.
    ``(3) In submitting each report under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall take such measures to protect the privacy of the employees listed 
in the report as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(c) Administrative Leave Defined.--In this section, the term 
`administrative leave'--
            ``(1) means an administratively authorized absence from 
        duty without loss of pay or charge to leave, for which the 
        employee is placed--
                    ``(A) due to an investigation; or
                    ``(B) while disciplinary action is proposed or 
                initiated; and
            ``(2) includes any type of paid nonduty status without a 
        charge to leave.''.
    (b) Application.--
            (1) Administrative leave limitation.--Subsection (a) of 
        section 718 of title 38, United States Code, as added by 
        subsection (a) of this section, shall apply to any period of 
        administrative leave (as defined in such section) commencing on 
        or after the date of the enactment of this title.
            (2) Report.--The report under section 718(b) of such title 
        (as added by subsection (a)) shall apply beginning in the first 
        quarter that ends after the date that is 180 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is further amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 717, as added by section 123, the following new 
item:

``718. Administrative leave limitation and report.''.

SEC. 125. MEASUREMENT OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS DISCIPLINARY 
              PROCESS OUTCOMES AND EFFECTIVENESS.

    (a) Measuring and Collecting.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        measure and collect information on the outcomes of disciplinary 
        actions carried out by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
        during the three-year period ending on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act and the effectiveness of such actions.
            (2) Elements.--In measuring and collecting pursuant to 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall measure and collect 
        information regarding the following:
                    (A) The average time from the initiation of an 
                adverse action against an employee at the Department to 
                the final resolution of that action.
                    (B) The number of distinct steps and levels of 
                review within the Department involved in the 
                disciplinary process and the average length of time 
                required to complete these steps.
                    (C) The rate of use of alternate disciplinary 
                procedures compared to traditional disciplinary 
                procedures and the frequency with which employees who 
                are subject to alternative disciplinary procedures 
                commit additional offenses.
                    (D) The number of appeals from adverse actions 
                filed against employees of the Department, the number 
                of appeals upheld, and the reasons for which the 
                appeals were upheld.
                    (E) The use of paid administrative leave during the 
                disciplinary process and the length of such leave.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2016, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress a report on the disciplinary procedures and actions of 
        the Department.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The information collected under subsection (a).
                    (B) The findings of the Secretary with respect to 
                the measurement and collection carried out under 
                subsection (a).
                    (C) An analysis of the disciplinary procedures and 
                actions of the Department.
                    (D) Suggestions for improving the disciplinary 
                procedures and actions of the Department.
                    (E) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate.
            (3) Appropriate committees of congress.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Committee on Appropriations and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Appropriations and the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives.

         Subtitle D--Other Personnel and Accountability Matters

SEC. 131. WRITTEN OPINION ON CERTAIN EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS AFTER 
              TERMINATING EMPLOYMENT WITH THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 7 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by subtitles A, B, and C, is further amended by inserting after 
section 718, as added by section 124, the following new section:
``Sec. 719. Written opinion on certain employment restrictions after 
              terminating employment with the Department
    ``(a)  In General.--Before terminating employment with the 
Department, any official of the Department who has participated 
personally and substantially during the one-year period ending on the 
date of the termination in an acquisition by the Department that 
exceeds $10,000,000 shall obtain a written opinion from an appropriate 
ethics counselor at the Department regarding any restrictions on 
activities that the official may undertake on behalf of a covered 
contractor during the two-year period beginning on the date on which 
the official terminates such employment.
    ``(b) Covered Contractor Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered contractor' means a contractor carrying out a contract entered 
into with the Department, including pursuant to a subcontract.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is further amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 718, as added by section 124, the following new 
item:

``719. Written opinion on certain employment restrictions after leaving 
                            the Department.''.

SEC. 132. REQUIREMENT FOR CONTRACTORS OF THE DEPARTMENT EMPLOYING 
              CERTAIN RECENTLY SEPARATED DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 81 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 8129. Requirement for contractors employing certain recently 
              separated Department employees
    ``(a) In General.--A covered contractor may not knowingly provide 
compensation to an individual described in subsection (b) during the 
two-year period beginning on the date on which the individual 
terminates employment with the Department unless the covered contractor 
determines that the individual--
            ``(1) has obtained the written opinion required under 
        section 719(a) of this title; or
            ``(2) has requested such written opinion not later than 30 
        days before receiving compensation from the covered contractor.
    ``(b) Individual Described.--An individual described in this 
subsection is any official of the Department who participated 
personally and substantially during the one-year period ending on the 
date of the termination of the individual's employment with the 
Department in an acquisition by the Department that exceeds 
$10,000,000.
    ``(c) Covered Contractor Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered contractor' means a contractor carrying out a contract entered 
into with the Department, including pursuant to a subcontract.''.
    (b) Application.--The requirement under section 8129(a) of title 
38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with 
respect to any entity that enters into a contract with the Department 
on or after the date of the enactment of this title.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 81 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 8128 the following new item:

``8129. Requirement for contractors employing certain recently 
                            separated Department employees.''.

SEC. 133. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PROGRAM OF INTERNAL AUDITS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 527 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 527A. Program of internal audits
    ``(a) Program Required.--(1) The Secretary shall carry out a 
program of internal audits and self-analysis to improve the furnishing 
of benefits and health care to veterans and their families.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall carry out the program required by 
paragraph (1) through an office the Secretary shall establish for 
purposes of the program within the office of the Secretary that is 
interdisciplinary and independent of--
            ``(A) the other offices within the office of the Secretary; 
        and
            ``(B) the covered administrations (or functions of such 
        administrations), staff organizations, and staff offices 
        identified under subsection (b)(1)(A).
    ``(b) Program Requirements.--(1) In carrying out the program 
required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) conduct periodic risk assessments of the Department 
        to identify those covered administrations (or functions of such 
        administrations), staff organizations, and staff offices of the 
        Department the audit of which would lead towards the greatest 
        improvement in the furnishing of benefits and health care to 
        veterans and their families;
            ``(B) develop plans that are informed by the risk 
        assessments conducted under paragraph (1) to conduct internal 
        audits of the covered administrations (or functions of such 
        administrations), staff organizations, and staff offices 
        identified under subparagraph (A); and
            ``(C) conduct internal audits in accordance with the plans 
        developed pursuant to subparagraph (B).
    ``(2) The Secretary shall carry out under the program required by 
subsection (a) an audit of not fewer than five covered administrations 
(or functions of such administrations), staff organizations, or staff 
offices of the Department each year.
    ``(3) In identifying covered administrations (or functions of such 
administrations), staff organizations, and staff offices of the 
Department under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall accord priority 
to the covered administrations and functions of such administrations.
    ``(4)(A) For purposes of this subsection, the covered 
administrations of the Department are the following:
            ``(i) The National Cemetery Administration.
            ``(ii) The Veterans Benefits Administration.
            ``(iii) The Veterans Health Administration.
    ``(B) For purposes of this subsection, the covered staff 
organizations of the Department are the following:
            ``(i) The Office of Acquisition, Logistics, and 
        Construction.
            ``(ii) The Advisory Committee Management Office.
            ``(iii) The Board of Veterans' Appeals.
            ``(iv) The Center for Faith-Based and Neighborhood 
        Partnerships.
            ``(v) The Center for Minority Veterans.
            ``(vi) The Center for Women Veterans.
            ``(vii) The Office of General Counsel.
            ``(viii) The Office of Regulation Policy and Management.
            ``(ix) The Office of Employment Discrimination Complaint 
        Adjudication.
            ``(x) The Office of Interagency Care and Benefits 
        Coordination.
            ``(xi) The Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
        Utilization.
            ``(xii) The Office of Survivors Assistance.
            ``(xiii) The Veterans' Service Organizations Liaison.
            ``(xiv) The Office of Patient Advocacy.
            ``(xv) The Office of Accountability and Whistleblower 
        Protection.
    ``(C) For purposes of this subsection, the covered staff offices of 
the Department are the following:
            ``(i) The office of the Assistant Secretary for 
        Congressional and Legislative Affairs.
            ``(ii) The office of the Assistant Secretary for Human 
        Resources and Administration.
            ``(iii) The office of the Assistant Secretary for 
        Information and Technology.
            ``(iv) The Office of Management.
            ``(v) The office of the Assistant Secretary for Operations, 
        Security, and Preparedness.
            ``(vi) The office of the Assistant Secretary for Policy and 
        Planning.
            ``(vii) The office of the Assistant Secretary for Public 
        and Intergovernmental Affairs.
    ``(c) Reports.--(1)(A) Not later than 90 days after completing an 
audit under the program required by subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the audit.
    ``(B) Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) with respect to 
an audit shall include the following:
            ``(i) A summary of the audit.
            ``(ii) The findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
        audit.
            ``(iii) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislative or administrative action to improve the furnishing 
        of benefits and health care to veterans and their families.
            ``(iv) Plans to carry out the recommendations submitted 
        under clause (iii), including timelines for completion of such 
        plans.
    ``(2)(A) Not later than September 1 of each year, the Secretary 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
administration of this section.
    ``(B) Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) shall include 
the following:
            ``(i) A detailed description of each matter for which a 
        recommendation was submitted under clause (iii) of paragraph 
        (1)(B) and with respect to which plans that were submitted 
        under clause (iv) of such paragraph have not been completed.
            ``(ii) A plan for the conduct of audits under this section 
        during the first fiscal year beginning after the fiscal year in 
        which the report is submitted, which shall include the 
        following:
                    ``(I) A description of any risk assessments the 
                Secretary plans to conduct in such fiscal year.
                    ``(II) A summary of each audit the Secretary plans 
                to conduct in such fiscal year, including a description 
                of the subject matter of the audit and identification 
                of the administration, office, or function to be 
                audited.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `appropriate committees of 
Congress' includes--
            ``(A) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Oversight and Government 
        Reform of the House of Representatives.''.
    (b) First Risk Assessment.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
complete the first risk assessment required by section 527A(b)(1)(A) of 
such title, as added by subsection (a), by not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 5 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 527 the following new item:

``527A. Program of internal audits.''.

                     TITLE II--HEALTH CARE MATTERS

SEC. 200. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Jason Simcakoski Memorial Act''.

     Subtitle A--Expansion and Improvement of Health Care Benefits

SEC. 201. IMPROVED ACCESS TO APPROPRIATE IMMUNIZATIONS FOR VETERANS.

    (a) Inclusion of Recommended Adult Immunizations as Medical 
Services.--
            (1) Covered benefit.--Subparagraph (F) of section 1701(9) 
        of title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
                    ``(F) immunizations against infectious diseases, 
                including each immunization on the recommended adult 
                immunization schedule at the time such immunization is 
                indicated on that schedule;''.
            (2) Recommended adult immunization schedule defined.--
        Section 1701 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(10) The term `recommended adult immunization schedule' 
        means the schedule established (and periodically reviewed and, 
        as appropriate, revised) by the Advisory Committee on 
        Immunization Practices established by the Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services and delegated to the Centers for Disease 
        Control and Prevention.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Recommended Adult Immunizations in Annual 
Report.--Section 1704(1)(A) of such title is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after clause (ii) the following new 
        clause:
                            ``(iii) to provide veterans each 
                        immunization on the recommended adult 
                        immunization schedule at the time such 
                        immunization is indicated on that schedule.''.
    (c) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the development and implementation 
        by the Department of Veterans Affairs of quality measures and 
        metrics, including targets for compliance, to ensure that 
        veterans receiving medical services under chapter 17 of title 
        38, United States Code, receive each immunization on the 
        recommended adult immunization schedule at the time such 
        immunization is indicated on that schedule.
            (2) Recommended adult immunization schedule defined.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``recommended adult immunization 
        schedule'' has the meaning given that term in section 1701(10) 
        of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(2).
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section may be construed to require a veteran 
to receive an immunization that the veteran does not want to receive.

SEC. 202. EXPANSION OF PROVISION OF CHIROPRACTIC CARE AND SERVICES TO 
              VETERANS.

    (a) Program for Provision of Chiropractic Care and Services to 
Veterans.--Section 204(c) of the Department of Veterans Affairs Health 
Care Programs Enhancement Act of 2001 (Public Law 107-135; 115 Stat. 
2459; 38 U.S.C. 1710 note) is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The program''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The program shall be carried out at not fewer than two 
medical centers or clinics in each Veterans Integrated Service Network 
by not later than two years after the date of the enactment of the 
Jason Simcakoski Memorial Act, and at not fewer than 50 percent of all 
medical centers in each Veterans Integrated Service Network by not 
later than three years after such date of enactment.''.
    (b) Expanded Chiropractor Services Available to Veterans.--
            (1) Medical services.--Paragraph (6) of section 1701 of 
        title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(H) Chiropractic services.''.
            (2) Rehabilitative services.--Paragraph (8) of such section 
        is amended by inserting ``chiropractic,'' after 
        ``counseling,''.
            (3) Preventive health services.--Paragraph (9) of such 
        section is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) through (K) 
                as subparagraphs (G) through (L), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the 
                following new subparagraph (F):
                    ``(F) periodic and preventive chiropractic 
                examinations and services;''.

SEC. 203. PRIORITY OF MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS IN HEALTH CARE SYSTEM 
              OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Enrollment Priority.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1705(a) of title 38, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting the following: ``and veterans who 
                were awarded the medal of honor under section 3741, 
                6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of title 
                14.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``veterans who 
                were awarded the medal of honor under section 3741, 
                6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of title 
                14,''.
            (2) Application.--The priority of enrollment of medal of 
        honor recipients in the system of annual patient enrollment 
        established and operated under section 1705(a) of such title, 
        as amended by paragraph (1), shall apply to each such 
        recipient, regardless of the date on which the medal is 
        awarded.
    (b) Eligibility.--Section 1710(a)(2)(D) of such title is amended by 
inserting after ``war'' the following: ``, who was awarded the medal of 
honor under section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of 
title 14,''.
    (c) Extended Care Services.--Section 1710B(c)(2) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) to a veteran who was awarded the medal of honor under 
        section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of title 
        14.''.
    (d) Copayment for Medications.--Section 1722A(a)(3) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) to a veteran who was awarded the medal of honor under 
        section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of title 
        14.''.

                     Subtitle B--Mental Health Care

SEC. 211. VETERANS EXPEDITED RECOVERY COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established the Veterans Expedited 
Recovery Commission (in this section referred to as the 
``Commission'').
    (b) Duties.--The Commission shall perform the following duties:
            (1) Examine the efficacy of the evidence-based therapy 
        model used by the Department of Veterans Affairs for treating 
        mental health conditions of veterans and identify areas to 
        improve wellness-based outcomes.
            (2) Conduct a patient-centered survey within each of the 
        Veterans Integrated Service Networks to examine--
                    (A) the experience of veterans with the Department 
                when seeking medical assistance for mental health 
                conditions through the health care system of the 
                Department;
                    (B) the experience of veterans with non-Department 
                medical facilities and health professionals for 
                treating mental health conditions;
                    (C) the preferences of veterans regarding available 
                treatments for mental health conditions and which 
                methods the veterans believe to be most effective;
                    (D) the experience, if any, of veterans with 
                respect to the complementary and integrative health 
                services described in subparagraphs (A) through (I) of 
                paragraph (3);
                    (E) the prevalence of prescribing prescription 
                medication among veterans seeking treatment through the 
                health care system of the Department as remedies for 
                addressing mental health conditions; and
                    (F) the outreach efforts of the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs regarding the availability of benefits 
                and treatments for veterans for addressing mental 
                health conditions, including by identifying ways to 
                reduce barriers to and gaps in such benefits and 
                treatments.
            (3) Examine available research on complementary and 
        integrative health services for mental health conditions and 
        identify what benefits could be made with the inclusion of such 
        treatments for veterans, including with respect to--
                    (A) music therapy;
                    (B) equine therapy;
                    (C) training and caring for service dogs;
                    (D) yoga therapy;
                    (E) acupuncture therapy;
                    (F) meditation therapy;
                    (G) outdoor sports therapy;
                    (H) hyperbaric oxygen therapy; and
                    (I) such other therapies as the Commission 
                determines appropriate.
            (4) Study the potential increase of claims relating to 
        mental health conditions submitted to the Secretary by veterans 
        who served in Operation Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi 
        Freedom, or Operation New Dawn, including an assessment of the 
        resources available within the Department to ensure that 
        quality health care demands relating to such claims can be 
        delivered in a timely manner.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Number and appointment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission shall be composed 
                of 10 members, appointed as follows:
                            (i) Two members appointed by the Speaker of 
                        the House of Representatives, at least one of 
                        whom shall be a veteran.
                            (ii) Two members appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the House of Representatives, at 
                        least one of whom shall be a veteran.
                            (iii) Two members appointed by the Majority 
                        Leader of the Senate, at least one of whom 
                        shall be a veteran.
                            (iv) Two members appointed by the Minority 
                        Leader of the Senate, at least one of whom 
                        shall be a veteran.
                            (v) Two members appointed by the President, 
                        at least one of whom shall be a veteran.
                    (B) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission 
                shall be individuals who--
                            (i) are of recognized standing and 
                        distinction within the medical community with a 
                        background in treating mental health;
                            (ii) have experience working with the 
                        military and veteran population; and
                            (iii) do not have a financial interest in 
                        any of the complementary and integrative health 
                        services reviewed by the Commission.
            (2) Chair.--The President shall designate a member of the 
        Commission to be the Chair.
            (3) Period of appointment.--Members of the Commission shall 
        be appointed for the life of the Commission.
            (4) Vacancy.--A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled 
        in the manner in which the original appointment was made.
            (5) Appointment deadline.--The appointment of members of 
        the Commission in this section shall be made not later than 90 
        days after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Powers of Commission.--
            (1) Meeting.--
                    (A) Initial meeting.--The Commission shall hold its 
                first meeting not later than 30 days after a majority 
                of members are appointed to the Commission.
                    (B) Meeting.--The Commission shall regularly meet 
                at the call of the Chair. Such meetings may be carried 
                out through the use of telephonic or other appropriate 
                telecommunication technology if the Commission 
                determines that such technology will allow the members 
                to communicate simultaneously.
            (2) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit 
        and act at such times and places, take such testimony, and 
        receive such evidence as the Commission considers advisable to 
        carry out the responsibilities of the Commission.
            (3) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission may 
        secure directly from any Federal agency such information as the 
        Commission considers necessary to carry out the duties of the 
        Commission under subsection (b).
            (4) Information from nongovernmental organizations.--In 
        carrying out the duties of the Commission under subsection (b), 
        the Commission may seek guidance through consultation with 
        foundations, veterans service organizations, nonprofit groups, 
        faith-based organizations, private and public institutions of 
        higher education, and such other organizations as the 
        Commission determines appropriate.
            (5) Commission records.--The Commission shall keep an 
        accurate and complete record of the actions and meetings of the 
        Commission. Such record shall be made available for public 
        inspection and the Comptroller General of the United States may 
        audit and examine such record.
            (6) Personnel matters.--Upon request of the Chair of the 
        Commission, the head of any Federal agency may detail, on a 
        reimbursable basis, any personnel of that agency to assist the 
        Commission in carrying out the duties of the Commission.
            (7) Compensation of members; travel expenses.--Each member 
        shall serve without pay, except that each member shall receive 
        travel expenses to perform the duties of the Commission under 
        subsection (b), including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
        rates authorized under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, 
        United States Code.
            (8) Staff.--The Chair, in accordance with rules agreed upon 
        by the Commission, may appoint and fix the compensation of a 
        staff director and such other personnel as may be necessary to 
        enable the Commission to carry out its functions, without 
        regard to the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
        governing appointments in the competitive service or chapter 51 
        and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to 
        classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no 
        rate of pay fixed under this subsection may exceed the 
        equivalent of the rate payable for a position at level IV of 
        the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of such title.
            (9) Personnel as federal employees.--
                    (A) In general.--The executive director and any 
                personnel of the Commission are employees under section 
                2105 of title 5, United States Code, for purposes of 
                chapters 63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, and 90 of such 
                title.
                    (B) Members of the commission.--Subparagraph (A) 
                shall not be construed to apply to members of the 
                Commission.
            (10) Contracting.--The Commission may, to such extent and 
        in such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts, enter 
        into contracts to enable the Commission to discharge the duties 
        of the Commission under this section.
            (11) Expert and consultant services.--The Commission may 
        procure the services of experts and consultants in accordance 
        with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates not 
        to exceed the daily rate paid to a person occupying a position 
        at level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of 
        such title.
            (12) Postal service.--The Commission may use the United 
        States mails in the same manner and under the same conditions 
        as a Federal agency.
            (13) Physical facilities and equipment.--Upon the request 
        of the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall 
        provide to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the 
        administrative support services necessary for the Commission to 
        carry out its responsibilities under this section. These 
        administrative services may include human resource management, 
        budget, leasing, accounting, and payroll services.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) Interim reports.--
                    (A) Cooperation by heads of federal agencies.--Not 
                later than 60 days after the date on which the 
                Commission first meets, and not less frequently than 
                once during each 30-day period thereafter ending on the 
                date on which the Commission submits the final report 
                under paragraph (2), the Commission shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives, and the President a report detailing 
                the level of cooperation the Secretary of Veterans 
                Affairs (and the heads of other Federal agencies) has 
                provided to the Commission.
                    (B) Other reports.--In carrying out the duties of 
                the Commission under subsection (b), at times that the 
                Commission determines appropriate, the Commission shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives, and such other entities as the 
                Commission determines appropriate an interim report 
                with respect to the findings identified by the 
                Commission.
            (2) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the 
                date on which the Commission first meets, the 
                Commission shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
                Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' 
                Affairs of the House of Representatives, the President, 
                and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a final report on 
                the findings of the Commission.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) Recommendations to implement in a 
                        feasible, timely, and cost-effective manner any 
                        solutions and remedies identified by the 
                        Commission in carrying out the duties of the 
                        Commission under subsection (b).
                            (ii) An analysis of the evidence-based 
                        therapy model used by the Secretary for 
                        treating veterans with mental health conditions 
                        and an examination of the prevalence and 
                        efficacy of prescription drugs as a means of 
                        treatment.
                            (iii) The findings of the patient-centered 
                        survey conducted within each of the Veterans 
                        Integrated Service Networks under subsection 
                        (b)(2).
                            (iv) An examination of the complementary 
                        and integrative health services described in 
                        subsection (b)(3) and the potential benefits of 
                        incorporating such services in the therapy 
                        model used by the Secretary for treating 
                        veterans with mental health conditions.
            (3) Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
        the Commission submits the final report under paragraph (2), 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on 
        the following:
                    (A) An action plan for implementing the 
                recommendations set forth by the Commission in such 
                report regarding solutions and remedies for improving 
                wellness-based outcomes for veterans with mental health 
                conditions.
                    (B) A feasible timeframe on when complementary and 
                integrative health services described in subsection 
                (b)(3) can be implemented throughout the Department.
                    (C) With respect to each recommendation set forth 
                by the Commission, including regarding any 
                complementary and integrative health service, that the 
                Secretary determines is not appropriate or feasible to 
                implement, a justification for each such determination 
                and an alternative solution to improve the efficacy of 
                the therapy model used by the Secretary for treating 
                veterans with mental health conditions.
    (f) Termination of Commission.--The Commission shall terminate 30 
days after the Commission submits the final report under subsection 
(e)(2).
    (g) Complementary and Integrative Health Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``complementary and integrative health'' has the meaning given 
that term or any subsequent similar term by the National Institutes of 
Health.

SEC. 212. MENTAL HEALTH TREATMENT FOR VETERANS WHO SERVED IN CLASSIFIED 
              MISSIONS.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that veterans 
who experience combat-related mental health wounds should have 
immediate, appropriate, and consistent access to comprehensive mental 
health care.
    (b) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1720H. Mental health treatment for veterans who served in 
              classified missions
    ``(a) Establishment of Standards.--(1) The Secretary shall 
establish standards and procedures to ensure that each eligible veteran 
may access mental health care furnished by the Secretary in a manner 
that fully accommodates the obligation of the veteran to not improperly 
disclose classified information.
    ``(2) In establishing standards and procedures under paragraph (1), 
the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Defense to ensure 
that such standards and procedures are consistent with the policies on 
classified information of the Department of Defense.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall disseminate guidance to employees of the 
Veterans Health Administration, including mental health professionals, 
on the standards and procedures established under paragraph (1) and how 
to best engage eligible veterans during the course of mental health 
treatment with respect to classified information.
    ``(b) Identification.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall ensure that a veteran may elect to identify as an eligible 
veteran on an appropriate form.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `classified information' means any 
        information or material that has been determined by an official 
        of the United States pursuant to law to require protection 
        against unauthorized disclosure for reasons of national 
        security.
            ``(2) The term `eligible veteran' means a veteran who--
                    ``(A) is enrolled in the system of annual patient 
                enrollment established and operated under section 
                1705(a) of this title;
                    ``(B) is seeking mental health treatment; and
                    ``(C) in the course of serving in the Armed Forces, 
                participated in a sensitive mission or served in a 
                sensitive unit.
            ``(3) The term `sensitive mission' means a mission of the 
        Armed Forces that, at the time at which a eligible veteran 
        seeks treatment, is classified.
            ``(4) The term `sensitive unit' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 130b(c)(4) of title 10.''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1720G the following new item:

``1720H. Mental health treatment for veterans who served in classified 
                            missions.''.

SEC. 213. INCLUSION OF MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS IN EDUCATION AND 
              TRAINING PROGRAM FOR HEALTH PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out the program of education and 
training required under section 7302(a)(1) of title 38, United States 
Code, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall include education and 
training of marriage and family therapists and licensed professional 
mental health counselors.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (a) shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 214. EXPANSION OF QUALIFICATIONS FOR LICENSED MENTAL HEALTH 
              COUNSELORS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO 
              INCLUDE DOCTORAL DEGREES.

    Section 7402(b)(11)(A) of title 38, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting ``or doctoral degree'' after ``master's degree''.

              Subtitle C--Improvement of Medical Workforce

SEC. 221. MODIFICATION OF HOURS OF EMPLOYMENT FOR PHYSICIANS AND 
              PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS EMPLOYED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Section 7423(a) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``(a) The hours'' and inserting ``(a)(1) 
        Except as provided in paragraph (2), the hours''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary may modify the hours of employment for a 
physician or physician assistant appointed in the Administration under 
any provision of this chapter on a full-time basis to be more than or 
less than 80 hours in a biweekly pay period if the total hours of 
employment for such employee in a calendar year does not exceed 2,080 
hours.''.

SEC. 222. REQUIREMENT THAT PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS EMPLOYED BY THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS RECEIVE COMPETITIVE PAY.

    (a) In General.--Section 7451(a)(2) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C);
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
        subparagraph (B):
            ``(B) Physician assistant.''; and
            (3) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated by paragraph (1), 
        by striking ``and registered nurse'' and inserting ``registered 
        nurse, and physician assistant''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date that is one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 223. EXTENSION OF PERIOD FOR INCREASE IN GRADUATE MEDICAL 
              EDUCATION RESIDENCY POSITIONS AT MEDICAL FACILITIES OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Paragraph (2) of section 301(b) of the Veterans 
Access, Choice, and Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 
U.S.C. 7302 note) is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``Five-year'' and 
        inserting ``Ten-year''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``5-year period'' and 
        inserting ``10-year period''.
    (b) Report.--Paragraph (3)(A) of such section is amended by 
striking ``until 2019'' and inserting ``until 2024''.

SEC. 224. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HIRING OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS 
              BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, as part 
of the hiring process for each health care provider considered for a 
position at the Department of Veterans Affairs after the date specified 
in subsection (c), require from the medical board of each State in 
which the health care provider holds or has held a medical license--
            (1) information on any violation of the requirements of the 
        medical license of the health care provider; and
            (2) information on whether the health care provider has 
        entered into any settlement agreement for a disciplinary charge 
        relating to the practice of medicine by the health care 
        provider.
    (b) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to 
carry out this section.
    (c) Date Specified.--
            (1) In general.--The date specified in this subsection is 
        the date on which the Secretary prescribes regulations to carry 
        out this section.
            (2) Publication.--The Secretary shall publish in the 
        Federal Register the date specified in this subsection not 
        later than 30 days before such date.

SEC. 225. PROVISION OF INFORMATION ON HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO STATE MEDICAL BOARDS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 552a of title 5, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, with respect to 
each health care provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs that 
violates a requirement of the medical license of the health care 
provider after the date of the enactment of this Act, provide to the 
medical board of each State in which the health care provider is 
licensed or practices all relevant information contained in the State 
Licensing Board Reporting File or any successor file of the Department 
with respect to such violation.
    (b) No Request Required.--The Secretary shall provide the 
information required in subsection (a) to a medical board described in 
such subsection notwithstanding that such board may not have formally 
requested such information from the Department.

SEC. 226. REPORT ON MEDICAL WORKFORCE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
medical workforce of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) With respect to licensed professional mental health 
        counselors and marriage and family therapists of the 
        Department--
                    (A) how many such counselors and therapists are 
                currently enrolled in the mental health professionals 
                trainee program of the Department;
                    (B) how many such counselors and therapists are 
                expected to enroll in the mental health professionals 
                trainee program of the Department during the 180-day 
                period beginning on the date of the submittal of the 
                report;
                    (C) a description of the eligibility criteria for 
                such counselors and therapists as compared to other 
                behavioral health professions in the Department;
                    (D) a description of the objectives, goals, and 
                timing of the Department with respect to increasing the 
                representation of such counselors and therapists in the 
                behavioral health workforce of the Department; and
                    (E) a description of the actions taken by the 
                Secretary, in consultation with the Director of the 
                Office of Personnel Management, to create an 
                occupational series for such counselors and therapists 
                and a timeline for the creation of such an occupational 
                series.
            (2) A breakdown of spending by the Department in connection 
        with the education debt reduction program of the Department 
        under subchapter VII of chapter 76 of title 38, United States 
        Code, including--
                    (A) the amount spent by the Department in debt 
                reduction payments during the three-year period 
                preceding the submittal of the report disaggregated by 
                the medical profession of the individual receiving the 
                payments;
                    (B) a description of how the Department prioritizes 
                such spending by medical profession, including an 
                assessment of whether such priority reflects the five 
                occupations identified in the most recent determination 
                by the Inspector General of the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs as having the largest staffing shortages in the 
                Veterans Health Administration; and
                    (C) a description of the actions taken by the 
                Secretary to increase the effectiveness of such 
                spending for purposes of recruitment of health care 
                providers to the Department, including efforts to more 
                consistently include eligibility for the education debt 
                reduction program in vacancy announcements of positions 
                for health care providers at the Department.
            (3) A description of any impediments to the delivery by the 
        Department of telemedicine services to veterans and any actions 
        taken by the Department to address such impediments, including 
        with respect to--
                    (A) restrictions under Federal or State law;
                    (B) licensing or credentialing issues for health 
                care providers, including non-Department health care 
                providers, practicing telemedicine with a veteran 
                located in a different State;
                    (C) the effect of limited broadband access or 
                limited information technology capabilities on the 
                delivery of health care;
                    (D) the distance a veteran is required to travel, 
                if the veteran is required to travel, to access a 
                facility or clinic with telemedicine capabilities;
                    (E) the effect on the provision of telemedicine 
                services to veterans of policies of and limited 
                liability protection for certain entities; and
                    (F) issues relating to reimbursement and travel 
                limitations for veterans that affect the participation 
                of non-Department health care providers in the 
                telemedicine program.
            (4) An update on the efforts of the Secretary to offer 
        training opportunities in telemedicine to medical residents in 
        medical facilities of the Department that use telemedicine, 
        consistent with medical residency program requirements 
        established by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical 
        Education, as required in section 108(b) of the Honoring 
        America's Veterans and Caring for Camp Lejeune Families Act of 
        2012 (Public Law 112-154; 38 U.S.C. 7406 note).
            (5) An assessment of the development and implementation by 
        the Secretary of succession planning policies to address the 
        prevalence of vacancies in positions in the Veterans Health 
        Administration of more than 180 days, including the development 
        of an enterprise position management system to more effectively 
        identify, track, and resolve such vacancies.
            (6) A description of the actions taken by the Secretary, in 
        consultation with the Director of the Office of Personnel 
        Management, to address any impediments to the timely 
        appointment and determination of qualifications for Directors 
        of Veterans Integrated Service Networks and Medical Center 
        Directors of the Department.

SEC. 227. REPORT ON COMPLIANCE BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS WITH 
              REVIEWS OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS LEAVING THE DEPARTMENT 
              OR TRANSFERRING TO OTHER FACILITIES.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on the compliance by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs with the policy of the Department--
            (1) to conduct a review of each health care provider of the 
        Department who transfers to another medical facility of the 
        Department or leaves the Department to determine whether there 
        are any concerns, complaints, or allegations of violations 
        relating to the medical practice of the health care provider; 
        and
            (2) to take appropriate action with respect to any such 
        concern, complaint, or allegation.

                     Subtitle D--Family Caregivers

SEC. 231. EXPANSION OF FAMILY CAREGIVER PROGRAM OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Family Caregiver Program.--
            (1) Expansion of eligibility.--
                    (A) In general.--Subsection (a)(2)(B) of section 
                1720G of title 38, United States Code, is amended to 
                read as follows:
            ``(B) for assistance provided under this subsection--
                    ``(i) before the date on which the Secretary 
                submits to Congress a certification that the Department 
                has fully implemented the information technology system 
                required by section 232(a) of the Jason Simcakoski 
                Memorial Act, has a serious injury (including traumatic 
                brain injury, psychological trauma, or other mental 
                disorder) incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in 
                the active military, naval, or air service on or after 
                September 11, 2001;
                    ``(ii) during the two-year period beginning on the 
                date specified in clause (i), has a serious injury 
                (including traumatic brain injury, psychological 
                trauma, or other mental disorder) incurred or 
                aggravated in the line of duty in the active military, 
                naval, or air service--
                            ``(I) on or before May 7, 1975; or
                            ``(II) on or after September 11, 2001; or
                    ``(iii) after the date that is two years after the 
                date specified in clause (i), has a serious injury 
                (including traumatic brain injury, psychological 
                trauma, or other mental disorder) incurred or 
                aggravated in the line of duty in the active military, 
                naval, or air service; and''.
                    (B) Publication in federal register.--Not later 
                than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs submits to Congress the certification 
                described in subsection (a)(2)(B)(i) of section 1720G 
                of such title, as amended by subparagraph (A) of this 
                paragraph, the Secretary shall publish the date 
                specified in such subsection in the Federal Register.
            (2) Expansion of needed services in eligibility criteria.--
        Subsection (a)(2)(C) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``; or'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); 
                and
                    (C) by inserting after clause (ii) the following 
                new clause (iii):
                    ``(iii) a need for regular or extensive instruction 
                or supervision without which the ability of the veteran 
                to function in daily life would be seriously impaired; 
                or''.
            (3) Expansion of services provided.--Subsection 
        (a)(3)(A)(ii) of such section is amended--
                    (A) in subclause (IV), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in subclause (V), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subclause:
                    ``(VI) through the use of contracts with, or the 
                provision of grants to, public or private entities--
                            ``(aa) financial planning services relating 
                        to the needs of injured veterans and their 
                        caregivers; and
                            ``(bb) legal services, including legal 
                        advice and consultation, relating to the needs 
                        of injured veterans and their caregivers.''.
            (4) Modification of stipend calculation.--Subsection 
        (a)(3)(C) of such section is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (iv); 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after clause (ii) the following 
                new clause (iii):
    ``(iii) In determining the amount and degree of personal care 
services provided under clause (i) with respect to an eligible veteran 
whose need for personal care services is based in whole or in part on a 
need for supervision or protection under paragraph (2)(C)(ii) or 
regular or extensive instruction or supervision under paragraph 
(2)(C)(iii), the Secretary shall take into account the following:
            ``(I) The assessment by the family caregiver of the needs 
        and limitations of the veteran.
            ``(II) The extent to which the veteran can function safely 
        and independently in the absence of such supervision, 
        protection, or instruction.
            ``(III) The amount of time required for the family 
        caregiver to provide such supervision, protection, or 
        instruction to the veteran.''.
            (5) Periodic evaluation of need for certain services.--
        Subsection (a)(3) of such section is amended by adding at the 
        end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(D) In providing instruction, preparation, and training under 
subparagraph (A)(i)(I) and technical support under subparagraph 
(A)(i)(II) to each family caregiver who is approved as a provider of 
personal care services for an eligible veteran under paragraph (6), the 
Secretary shall periodically evaluate the needs of the eligible veteran 
and the skills of the family caregiver of such veteran to determine if 
additional instruction, preparation, training, or technical support 
under those subparagraphs is necessary.''.
            (6) Use of primary care teams.--Subsection (a)(5) of such 
        section is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), 
        by inserting ``(in collaboration with the primary care team for 
        the eligible veteran to the maximum extent practicable)'' after 
        ``evaluate''.
            (7) Assistance for family caregivers.--Subsection (a) of 
        such section is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        paragraph:
    ``(11)(A) In providing assistance under this subsection to family 
caregivers of eligible veterans, the Secretary may enter into 
contracts, provider agreements, and memoranda of understanding with 
Federal agencies, States, and private, nonprofit, and other entities to 
provide such assistance to such family caregivers.
    ``(B) The Secretary may provide assistance under this paragraph 
only if such assistance is reasonably accessible to the family 
caregiver and is substantially equivalent or better in quality to 
similar services provided by the Department.
    ``(C) The Secretary may provide fair compensation to Federal 
agencies, States, and other entities that provide assistance under this 
paragraph.''.
    (b) Modification of Definition of Personal Care Services.--
Subsection (d)(4) of such section is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``independent'';
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (D); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
        subparagraphs:
                    ``(B) Supervision or protection based on symptoms 
                or residuals of neurological or other impairment or 
                injury.
                    ``(C) Regular or extensive instruction or 
                supervision without which the ability of the veteran to 
                function in daily life would be seriously impaired.''.

SEC. 232. IMPLEMENTATION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SYSTEM OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO ASSESS AND IMPROVE THE FAMILY 
              CAREGIVER PROGRAM.

    (a) Implementation of New System.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2016, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall implement an information 
        technology system that fully supports the Program and allows 
        for data assessment and comprehensive monitoring of the 
        Program.
            (2) Elements of system.--The information technology system 
        required to be implemented under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) The ability to easily retrieve data that will 
                allow all aspects of the Program (at the medical center 
                and aggregate levels) and the workload trends for the 
                Program to be assessed and comprehensively monitored.
                    (B) The ability to manage data with respect to a 
                number of caregivers that is more than the number of 
                caregivers that the Secretary expects to apply for the 
                Program.
                    (C) The ability to integrate the system with other 
                relevant information technology systems of the Veterans 
                Health Administration.
    (b) Assessment of Program.--Not later than 180 days after 
implementing the system described in subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall, through the Under Secretary for Health, use data from the system 
and other relevant data to conduct an assessment of how key aspects of 
the Program are structured and carried out.
    (c) Ongoing Monitoring of and Modifications to Program.--
            (1) Monitoring.--The Secretary shall use the system 
        implemented under subsection (a) to monitor and assess the 
        workload of the Program, including monitoring and assessment of 
        data on--
                    (A) the status of applications, appeals, and home 
                visits in connection with the Program; and
                    (B) the use by caregivers participating in the 
                Program of other support services under the Program 
                such as respite care.
            (2) Modifications.--Based on the monitoring and assessment 
        conducted under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall identify and 
        implement such modifications to the Program as the Secretary 
        considers necessary to ensure the Program is functioning as 
        intended and providing veterans and caregivers participating in 
        the Program with services in a timely manner.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Initial report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
                submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
                of Representatives, and the Comptroller General of the 
                United States a report that includes--
                            (i) the status of the planning, 
                        development, and deployment of the system 
                        required to be implemented under subsection 
                        (a), including any changes in the timeline for 
                        the implementation of the system; and
                            (ii) an assessment of the needs of family 
                        caregivers of veterans described in 
                        subparagraph (B), the resources needed for the 
                        inclusion of such family caregivers in the 
                        Program, and such changes to the Program as the 
                        Secretary considers necessary to ensure the 
                        successful expansion of the Program to include 
                        such family caregivers.
                    (B) Veterans described.--Veterans described in this 
                subparagraph are veterans who are eligible for the 
                Program under clause (ii) or (iii) of section 
                1720G(a)(2)(B) of title 38, United States Code, as 
                amended by section 231(a)(1) of this Act, solely due to 
                a serious injury (including traumatic brain injury, 
                psychological trauma, or other mental disorder) 
                incurred or aggravated in the line of duty in the 
                active military, naval, or air service before September 
                11, 2001.
            (2) Notification by comptroller general.--The Comptroller 
        General shall review the report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        and notify the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives with respect to the progress of the Secretary 
        in--
                    (A) fully implementing the system required under 
                subsection (a); and
                    (B) implementing a process for using such system to 
                monitor and assess the Program under subsection (c)(1) 
                and modify the Program as considered necessary under 
                subsection (c)(2).
            (3) Final report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2017, 
                the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
                Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on 
                Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, and 
                the Comptroller General a report on the implementation 
                of subsections (a) through (c).
                    (B) Elements.--The report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) A certification by the Secretary with 
                        respect to whether the information technology 
                        system described in subsection (a) has been 
                        implemented.
                            (ii) A description of how the Secretary has 
                        implemented such system.
                            (iii) A description of the modifications to 
                        the Program, if any, that were identified and 
                        implemented under subsection (c)(2).
                            (iv) A description of how the Secretary is 
                        using such system to monitor the workload of 
                        the Program.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Active military, naval, or air service.--The term 
        ``active military, naval, or air service'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Program.--The term ``Program'' means the program of 
        comprehensive assistance for family caregivers under section 
        1720G(a) of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 
        231 of this Act.

SEC. 233. MODIFICATIONS TO ANNUAL EVALUATION REPORT ON CAREGIVER 
              PROGRAM OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Barriers to Care and Services.--Subparagraph (A)(iv) of section 
101(c)(2) of the Caregivers and Veterans Omnibus Health Services Act of 
2010 (Public Law 111-163; 38 U.S.C. 1720G note) is amended by inserting 
``, including a description of any barriers to accessing and receiving 
care and services under such programs'' before the semicolon.
    (b) Sufficiency of Training for Family Caregiver Program.--
Subparagraph (B) of such section is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iii) an evaluation of the sufficiency 
                        and consistency of the training provided to 
                        family caregivers under such program in 
                        preparing family caregivers to provide care to 
                        veterans under such program.''.

SEC. 234. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON CAREGIVER POLICY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department of 
Veterans Affairs an advisory committee on policies relating to 
caregivers of veterans (in this section referred to as the 
``Committee'').
    (b) Composition.--The Committee shall be composed of the following:
            (1) A Chair selected by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) A representative from each of the following agencies or 
        organizations selected by the head of such agency or 
        organization:
                    (A) The Department of Veterans Affairs.
                    (B) The Department of Defense.
                    (C) The Department of Health and Human Services.
                    (D) The Department of Labor.
                    (E) The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services.
            (3) Not fewer than seven individuals who are not employees 
        of the Federal Government selected by the Secretary from among 
        the following individuals:
                    (A) Academic experts in fields relating to 
                caregivers.
                    (B) Clinicians.
                    (C) Caregivers.
                    (D) Individuals in receipt of caregiver services.
                    (E) Such other individuals with expertise that is 
                relevant to the duties of the Committee as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the Committee are as follows:
            (1) To regularly review and recommend policies of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs relating to caregivers of 
        veterans.
            (2) To examine and advise the implementation of such 
        policies.
            (3) To evaluate the effectiveness of such policies.
            (4) To recommend standards of care for caregiver services 
        and respite care services provided to a caregiver or veteran by 
        a nonprofit or private sector entity.
            (5) To develop recommendations for legislative or 
        administrative action to enhance the provision of services to 
        caregivers and veterans, including eliminating gaps in such 
        services and eliminating disparities in eligibility for such 
        services.
            (6) To make recommendations on coordination with State and 
        local agencies and relevant nonprofit organizations on 
        maximizing the use and effectiveness of resources for 
        caregivers of veterans.
    (d) Reports.--
            (1) Annual report to secretary.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2017, 
                and not less frequently than annually thereafter until 
                the termination date specified in subsection (e), the 
                Chair of the Committee shall submit to the Secretary a 
                report on policies and services of the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs relating to caregivers of veterans.
                    (B) Elements.--Each report required by subparagraph 
                (A) shall include the following:
                            (i) An assessment of the policies of the 
                        Department relating to caregivers of veterans 
                        and services provided pursuant to such policies 
                        as of the date of the submittal of the report.
                            (ii) A description of any recommendations 
                        made by the Committee to improve the 
                        coordination of services for caregivers of 
                        veterans between the Department and the 
                        entities specified in subparagraphs (B) through 
                        (E) of subsection (b)(2) and to eliminate 
                        barriers to the effective use of such services, 
                        including with respect to eligibility criteria.
                            (iii) An evaluation of the effectiveness of 
                        the Department in providing services for 
                        caregivers of veterans.
                            (iv) An evaluation of the quality and 
                        sufficiency of services for caregivers of 
                        veterans available from nongovernmental 
                        organizations.
                            (v) A description of any gaps identified by 
                        the Committee in care or services provided by 
                        caregivers to veterans and recommendations for 
                        legislative or administrative action to address 
                        such gaps.
                            (vi) Such other matters or recommendations 
                        as the Chair considers appropriate.
            (2) Transmittal to congress.--Not later than 90 days after 
        the receipt of a report under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        shall transmit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a copy of such report, together with such 
        comments and recommendations concerning such report as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (e) Termination.--The Committee shall terminate on December 31, 
2022.

SEC. 235. COMPREHENSIVE STUDY ON SERIOUSLY INJURED VETERANS AND THEIR 
              CAREGIVERS.

    (a) Study Required.--During the period specified in subsection (d), 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide for the conduct by an 
independent entity of a comprehensive study on the following:
            (1) Veterans who have incurred a serious injury or illness, 
        including a mental health injury or illness.
            (2) Individuals who are acting as caregivers for veterans.
    (b) Elements.--The comprehensive study required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following with respect to each veteran included in 
such study:
            (1) The health of the veteran and, if applicable, the 
        impact of the caregiver of such veteran on the health of such 
        veteran.
            (2) The employment status of the veteran and, if 
        applicable, the impact of the caregiver of such veteran on the 
        employment status of such veteran.
            (3) The financial status and needs of the veteran.
            (4) The use by the veteran of benefits available to such 
        veteran from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (5) Such other information as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (c) Contract.--The Secretary shall enter into a contract with an 
appropriate independent entity to conduct the study required by 
subsection (a).
    (d) Period Specified.--The period specified in this subsection is 
the one-year period beginning on the date that is four years after the 
date specified in section 1720G(a)(2)(B)(i) of title 38, United States 
Code, as amended by section 231(a)(1) of this Act.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the end of the period 
specified in subsection (d), the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
results of the study required by subsection (a).

                 Subtitle E--Health Care Administration

SEC. 241. REQUIREMENT THAT DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS COLLECT 
              HEALTH-PLAN CONTRACT INFORMATION FROM VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 17 is amended by inserting 
after section 1705 the following new section:
``Sec. 1705A. Management of health care: information regarding health-
              plan contracts
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Any individual who seeks hospital care or 
medical services under this chapter shall provide to the Secretary such 
current information as the Secretary may require to identify any 
health-plan contract under which such individual is covered.
    ``(2) The information required to be provided to the Secretary 
under paragraph (1) with respect to a health-plan contract shall 
include, as applicable, the following:
            ``(A) The name of the entity providing coverage under the 
        health-plan contract.
            ``(B) If coverage under the health-plan contract is in the 
        name of an individual other than the individual required to 
        provide information under this section, the name of the policy 
        holder of the health-plan contract.
            ``(C) The identification number for the health-plan 
        contract.
            ``(D) The group code for the health-plan contract.
    ``(b) Action To Collect Information.--The Secretary may take such 
action as the Secretary considers appropriate to collect the 
information required under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Effect on Services From Department.--The Secretary may not 
deny any services under this chapter to an individual solely due to the 
fact that the individual fails to provide information required under 
subsection (a).
    ``(d) Health-plan Contract Defined.--In this section, the term 
`health-plan contract' has the meaning given that term in section 
1725(f) of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1705 the following new item:

``1705A. Management of health care: information regarding health-plan 
                            contracts.''.

SEC. 242. EXPANSION OF AVAILABILITY OF PROSTHETIC AND ORTHOTIC CARE FOR 
              VETERANS.

    (a) Establishment or Expansion of Advanced Degree Programs To 
Expand Availability of Care.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
work with institutions of higher education to develop partnerships for 
the establishment or expansion of programs of advanced degrees in 
prosthetics and orthotics in order to improve and enhance the 
availability of high quality prosthetic and orthotic care for veterans.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
        effective date specified in subsection (d), the Secretary shall 
        submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report setting forth a plan for carrying out 
        subsection (a).
            (2) Development of plan.--The Secretary shall develop the 
        plan required under paragraph (1) in consultation with veterans 
        service organizations, institutions of higher education with 
        accredited degree programs in prosthetics and orthotics, and 
        representatives of the prosthetics and orthotics field.
    (c) Funding.--
            (1) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs, $5,000,000 to carry out this section.
            (2) Availability.--The amount authorized to be appropriated 
        by paragraph (1) shall remain available for expenditure until 
        September 30, 2019.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 243. REVIVAL OF INTERMEDIATE CARE TECHNICIAN PILOT PROGRAM OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Revival.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall revive the 
Intermediate Care Technician Pilot Program of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs that was carried out by the Secretary between January 
2013 and February 2014.
    (b) Technicians.--
            (1) Selection.--The Secretary shall select not fewer than 
        72 intermediate care technicians to participate in the pilot 
        program.
            (2) Facilities.--
                    (A) In general.--Any intermediate care technician 
                hired pursuant to paragraph (1) may be assigned to a 
                medical facility of the Department as determined by the 
                Secretary for purposes of this section.
                    (B) Priority.--In assigning intermediate care 
                technicians under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall 
                give priority to facilities at which veterans have the 
                longest wait times for appointments for the receipt of 
                hospital care or medical services from the Department, 
                as determined by the Secretary for purposes of this 
                section.
    (c) Termination.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a) during the three-year period beginning on the 
effective date specified in subsection (e).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``hospital care'' and 
``medical services'' have the meanings given those terms in section 
1701 of title 38, United States Code.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 244. TRANSFER OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDER CREDENTIALING DATA FROM 
              SECRETARY OF DEFENSE TO SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--In a case in which the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs hires a covered health care provider, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, after receiving a request from the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
for the credentialing data of the Secretary of Defense relating to such 
health care provider, transfer to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
such credentialing data.
    (b) Covered Health Care Providers.--For purposes of this section, a 
covered provider is a health care provider who--
            (1) is or was employed by the Secretary of Defense;
            (2) provides or provided health care related services as 
        part of such employment; and
            (3) was credentialed by the Secretary of Defense.
    (c) Policies and Regulations.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
and the Secretary of Defense shall establish such policies and 
prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.
    (d) Credentialing Defined.--In this section, the term 
``credentialing'' means the systematic process of screening and 
evaluating qualifications and other credentials, including licensure, 
required education, relevant training and experience, and current 
competence and health status.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 245. AUTHORITY TO PLACE CERTAIN VETERANS IN NON-DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FOSTER HOMES UPON REQUEST.

    (a) In General.--Section 1720 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h)(1) Subject to paragraph (2), at the request of a veteran for 
whom the Secretary is required to provide nursing home care under 
section 1710A of this title, the Secretary may place the veteran in a 
medical foster home that meets Department standards, at the expense of 
the United States, pursuant to a contract or agreement entered into 
between the Secretary and the medical foster home for such purpose. A 
veteran who is placed in a medical foster home under this subsection 
shall agree, as a condition of such placement, to accept home health 
services furnished by the Secretary under section 1717 of this title.
    ``(2) Not more than 900 veterans placed in a medical foster home, 
whether placed before, on, or after the enactment of the Jason 
Simcakoski Memorial Act, may have their care covered at the expense of 
the United States under paragraph (1).
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `medical foster home' means a 
home designed to provide noninstitutional, long-term, supportive care 
for veterans who are unable to live independently and prefer a family 
setting.
    ``(4) The authority of the Secretary under this subsection 
terminates on September 30, 2019.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (h) of such section, as added by 
subsection (a), shall take effect on October 1, 2016.

SEC. 246. EXAMINATION AND TREATMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              FOR EMERGENCY MEDICAL CONDITIONS AND WOMEN IN LABOR.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VIII of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1784 the following 
new section:
``Sec. 1784A. Examination and treatment for emergency medical 
              conditions and women in labor
    ``(a) In General.--In the case of a hospital of the Department that 
has an emergency department, if any individual comes to the hospital or 
the campus of the hospital and a request is made on behalf of the 
individual for examination or treatment for a medical condition, the 
hospital must provide for an appropriate medical screening examination 
within the capability of the emergency department, including ancillary 
services routinely available to the emergency department, to determine 
whether or not an emergency medical condition exists.
    ``(b) Necessary Stabilizing Treatment for Emergency Medical 
Conditions and Labor.--(1) If any individual comes to a hospital of the 
Department that has an emergency department or the campus of such a 
hospital and the hospital determines that the individual has an 
emergency medical condition, the hospital must provide either--
            ``(A) within the staff and facilities available at the 
        hospital, for such further medical examination and such 
        treatment as may be required to stabilize the medical 
        condition; or
            ``(B) for transfer of the individual to another medical 
        facility in accordance with subsection (c).
    ``(2) A hospital is deemed to meet the requirement of paragraph 
(1)(A) with respect to an individual if the hospital offers the 
individual the further medical examination and treatment described in 
that paragraph and informs the individual (or a person acting on behalf 
of the individual) of the risks and benefits to the individual of such 
examination and treatment, but the individual (or a person acting on 
behalf of the individual) refuses to consent to the examination and 
treatment. The hospital shall take all reasonable steps to secure the 
written informed consent of the individual (or person) to refuse such 
examination and treatment.
    ``(3) A hospital is deemed to meet the requirement of paragraph 
(1)(B) with respect to an individual if the hospital offers to transfer 
the individual to another medical facility in accordance with 
subsection (c) and informs the individual (or a person acting on behalf 
of the individual) of the risks and benefits to the individual of such 
transfer, but the individual (or a person acting on behalf of the 
individual) refuses to consent to the transfer. The hospital shall take 
all reasonable steps to secure the written informed consent of the 
individual (or person) to refuse such transfer.
    ``(c) Restricting Transfers Until Individual Stabilized.--(1) If an 
individual at a hospital of the Department has an emergency medical 
condition that has not been stabilized, the hospital may not transfer 
the individual unless--
            ``(A)(i) the individual (or a legally responsible person 
        acting on behalf of the individual), after being informed of 
        the obligations of the hospital under this section and of the 
        risk of transfer, requests, in writing, transfer to another 
        medical facility;
            ``(ii) a physician of the Department has signed a 
        certification that, based upon the information available at the 
        time of transfer, the medical benefits reasonably expected from 
        the provision of appropriate medical treatment at another 
        medical facility outweigh the increased risks to the individual 
        and, in the case of labor, to the unborn child from effecting 
        the transfer; or
            ``(iii) if a physician of the Department is not physically 
        present in the emergency department at the time an individual 
        is transferred, a qualified medical person (as defined by the 
        Secretary for purposes of this section) has signed a 
        certification described in clause (ii) after a physician of the 
        Department, in consultation with the person, has made the 
        determination described in such clause, and subsequently 
        countersigns the certification; and
            ``(B) the transfer is an appropriate transfer to that 
        facility.
    ``(2) A certification described in clause (ii) or (iii) of 
paragraph (1)(A) shall include a summary of the risks and benefits upon 
which the certification is based.
    ``(3) For purposes of paragraph (1)(B), an appropriate transfer to 
a medical facility is a transfer--
            ``(A) in which the transferring hospital provides the 
        medical treatment within its capacity that minimizes the risks 
        to the health of the individual and, in the case of a woman in 
        labor, the health of the unborn child;
            ``(B) in which the receiving facility--
                    ``(i) has available space and qualified personnel 
                for the treatment of the individual; and
                    ``(ii) has agreed to accept transfer of the 
                individual and to provide appropriate medical 
                treatment;
            ``(C) in which the transferring hospital sends to the 
        receiving facility all medical records (or copies thereof) 
        available at the time of the transfer relating to the emergency 
        medical condition for which the individual has presented, 
        including--
                    ``(i) observations of signs or symptoms;
                    ``(ii) preliminary diagnosis;
                    ``(iii) treatment provided;
                    ``(iv) the results of any tests; and
                    ``(v) the informed written request or certification 
                (or copy thereof) provided under paragraph (1)(A);
            ``(D) in which the transfer is effected through qualified 
        personnel and transportation equipment, including the use of 
        necessary and medically appropriate life support measures 
        during the transfer; and
            ``(E) that meets such other requirements as the Secretary 
        considers necessary in the interest of the health and safety of 
        the individual or individuals transferred.
    ``(d) Payment to the Department.--The Secretary shall charge for 
any care or services provided under this section in accordance with 
billing and reimbursement authorities available to the Secretary under 
other provisions of law.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `campus' means, with respect to a hospital 
        of the Department--
                    ``(A) the physical area immediately adjacent to the 
                main buildings of the hospital;
                    ``(B) other areas and structures that are not 
                strictly contiguous to the main buildings but are 
                located not more than 250 yards from the main 
                buildings; and
                    ``(C) any other areas determined by the Secretary 
                to be part of the campus of the hospital.
            ``(2) The term `emergency medical condition' means--
                    ``(A) a medical condition manifesting itself by 
                acute symptoms of sufficient severity (including severe 
                pain) such that the absence of immediate medical 
                attention could reasonably be expected to result in--
                            ``(i) placing the health of the individual 
                        (or, with respect to a pregnant woman, the 
                        health of the woman or her unborn child) in 
                        serious jeopardy;
                            ``(ii) serious impairment to bodily 
                        functions; or
                            ``(iii) serious dysfunction of any bodily 
                        organ or part; or
                    ``(B) with respect to a pregnant woman who is 
                having contractions--
                            ``(i) that there is inadequate time to 
                        effect a safe transfer to another hospital 
                        before delivery; or
                            ``(ii) that transfer may pose a threat to 
                        the health or safety of the woman or the unborn 
                        child.
            ``(3)(A) The term `to stabilize' means--
                    ``(i) with respect to an emergency medical 
                condition described in paragraph (2)(A), to provide 
                such medical treatment of the condition as may be 
                necessary to assure, within reasonable medical 
                probability, that no material deterioration of the 
                condition is likely to result from or occur during the 
                transfer of the individual from a facility; or
                    ``(ii) with respect to an emergency medical 
                condition described in paragraph (2)(B), to deliver 
                (including the placenta).
            ``(B) The term `stabilized' means--
                    ``(i) with respect to an emergency medical 
                condition described in paragraph (2)(A), that no 
                material deterioration of the condition is likely, 
                within reasonable medical probability, to result from 
                or occur during the transfer of the individual from a 
                facility; or
                    ``(ii) with respect to an emergency medical 
                condition described in paragraph (2)(B), that the woman 
                has delivered (including the placenta).
            ``(4) The term `transfer' means the movement (including the 
        discharge) of an individual outside the facilities of a 
        hospital of the Department at the direction of any person 
        employed by (or affiliated or associated, directly or 
        indirectly, with) the hospital, but does not include such a 
        movement of an individual who--
                    ``(A) has been declared dead; or
                    ``(B) leaves the facility without the permission of 
                any such person.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1784 the following new item:

``Sec. 1784A. Examination and treatment for emergency medical 
                            conditions and women in labor.''.

SEC. 247. COMPTROLLER GENERAL AUDIT OF BUDGET OF VETERANS HEALTH 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330B. Comptroller General audit of budget of Veterans Health 
              Administration
    ``(a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall periodically conduct an audit of elements of the budget of the 
Veterans Health Administration, including the budget formulation, 
execution, allocation, and use of funds.
    ``(b) Selection of Elements.--(1) In selecting elements of the 
budget of the Veterans Health Administration for purposes of an audit 
under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall take into 
consideration--
            ``(A) knowledge of the programs of the Veterans Health 
        Administration;
            ``(B) current issues;
            ``(C) national priorities; and
            ``(D) priorities expressed by the appropriate congressional 
        committees.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days before conducting an audit under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees notice of the elements selected by the 
Comptroller General for purposes of the audit.
    ``(c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on the Budget of the Senate; 
        and
            ``(2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 7330A the following new item:

``7330B. Comptroller General audit of budget of Veterans Health 
                            Administration.''.

SEC. 248. ANNUAL REPORT ON VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION AND 
              FURNISHING OF HOSPITAL CARE, MEDICAL SERVICES, AND 
              NURSING HOME CARE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, as amended by section 247(a), is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330C. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and 
              furnishing of hospital care, medical services, and 
              nursing home care
    ``(a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1 of each of years 
2018 through 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on, for the calendar year 
preceding the calendar year during which the report is submitted--
            ``(1) the furnishing of hospital care, medical services, 
        and nursing home care under the laws administered by the 
        Secretary; and
            ``(2) the administration of the furnishing of such care and 
        services by the Veterans Health Administration.
    ``(b) Elements.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
include each of the following for the year covered by the report:
            ``(1) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans 
        Health Administration in increasing the access of veterans to 
        hospital care, medical services, and nursing home care 
        furnished by the Secretary for which such veterans are 
        eligible.
            ``(2) An evaluation of the effectiveness of the Veterans 
        Health Administration in improving the quality of health care 
        provided to veterans, without increasing the costs incurred for 
        such health care by the Federal Government or veterans, 
        including relevant information for each medical center and 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network of the Department set forth 
        separately.
            ``(3) An assessment of--
                    ``(A) the workload of physicians and other 
                employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
                    ``(B) patient demographics and utilization rates;
                    ``(C) physician compensation;
                    ``(D) the productivity of physicians and other 
                employees of the Veterans Health Administration;
                    ``(E) the percentage of hospital care, medical 
                services, and nursing home care provided to veterans in 
                facilities of the Department and in non-Department 
                facilities and any changes in such percentages compared 
                to the year preceding the year covered by the report;
                    ``(F) pharmaceutical prices; and
                    ``(G) third-party health billings owed to the 
                Department, including the total amount of such billings 
                and the total amount collected by the Department, set 
                forth separately for claims greater than $1,000 and for 
                claims equal to or less than $1,000.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `hospital care', 
`medical services', `nursing home care', `facilities of the 
Department', and `non-Department facilities' have the meanings given 
those terms in section 1701 of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 of such title, as amended by section 247(b), is further 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7330B the 
following new item:

``7330C. Annual report on Veterans Health Administration and furnishing 
                            of hospital care, medical services, and 
                            nursing home care.''.

             Subtitle F--Opioid Therapy and Pain Management

SEC. 251. GUIDELINES ON MANAGEMENT OF OPIOID THERAPY BY DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND 
              IMPLEMENTATION OF SUCH GUIDELINES BY DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Guidelines.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly update the VA/DOD 
        Clinical Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy 
        for Chronic Pain to include the following:
                    (A) Guidelines developed by the Centers for Disease 
                Control and Prevention for safely prescribing opioids 
                for the treatment of chronic, noncancer related pain in 
                outpatient settings.
                    (B) Enhanced guidance with respect to absolute 
                contraindications for opioid therapy, including 
                guidance with respect to the following:
                            (i) The coadministration of drugs, 
                        including benzodiazepines, that are capable of 
                        inducing a life-limiting drug-drug interaction.
                            (ii) The treatment of patients with current 
                        acute psychiatric instability or substance use 
                        disorder or patients at risk of suicide.
                            (iii) The use of opioid therapy to treat 
                        patients without any pain, including to treat 
                        mental health disorders other than opioid use 
                        disorder.
                    (C) Enhanced guidance with respect to the treatment 
                of patients with behaviors or comorbidities, such as 
                post-traumatic stress disorder, psychiatric disorders, 
                or a history of substance abuse or addiction, that 
                require consultation or comanagement of opioid therapy 
                with one or more specialists in pain management, mental 
                health, or addictions.
                    (D) Enhanced guidance with respect to the conduct 
                by health care providers of an effectiveness assessment 
                for patients receiving opioid therapy, including 
                patients on long-term opioid therapy, to determine--
                            (i) whether opioid therapy is meeting the 
                        expected goals of the patient and health care 
                        provider of relieving pain and improving 
                        function; and
                            (ii) whether opioid therapy should be 
                        continued.
                    (E) Requirements that each health care provider of 
                the Department of Veterans Affairs, before initiating 
                opioid therapy to treat a patient, use the Opioid 
                Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department, including 
                by accessing the most recent patient information from 
                the prescription drug monitoring program of each State, 
                as required to be included in such tool under section 
                252(d)(1), to assess the risk for adverse outcomes of 
                opioid therapy for the patient, including the 
                concurrent use of controlled substances such as 
                benzodiazepines, as part of the comprehensive 
                assessment conducted by the health care provider.
                    (F) Guidelines to inform the methodologies used by 
                health care providers of the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs and the Department of Defense to safely titrate 
                and taper opioid therapy when adjusting or 
                discontinuing the use of opioid therapy, including--
                            (i) prescription of the lowest effective 
                        dose based on patient need;
                            (ii) use of opioids only for a limited 
                        period of time; and
                            (iii) augmentation of opioid therapy with 
                        other pain management therapies and modalities.
                    (G) Enhanced recommendations with respect to the 
                use of routine and random urine drug tests for all 
                patients before and during opioid therapy to help 
                prevent substance abuse, dependence, and diversion, 
                including--
                            (i) that such tests should occur not less 
                        frequently than annually or as otherwise 
                        determined according to patient treatment 
                        protocols; and
                            (ii) that health care providers should 
                        appropriately interpret and respond to the 
                        results from such tests to tailor pain therapy, 
                        safeguards, and risk management strategies to 
                        each patient.
                    (H) Guidance that health care providers discuss 
                with patients, before initiating opioid therapy, 
                options for pain management therapies without the use 
                of opioids and options to augment opioid therapy with 
                other clinical and complementary and integrative health 
                services to minimize opioid dependence.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to prevent the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and 
        the Secretary of Defense from considering all relevant 
        evidence, as appropriate, in updating the VA/DOD Clinical 
        Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic 
        Pain, as required under paragraph (1), or from ensuring that 
        the final clinical practice guideline updated under such 
        paragraph remains applicable to the patient populations of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
    (b) Consultation Before Update.--Before updating the clinical 
practice guideline under subsection (a), the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly consult with the 
Pain Management Working Group of the Health Executive Committee of the 
Department of Veterans Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive 
Committee established under section 320 of title 38, United States 
Code.
    (c) Controlled Substance Defined.--In this section, the term 
``controlled substance'' has the meaning given that term in section 102 
of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).

SEC. 252. IMPROVEMENT OF OPIOID SAFETY MEASURES BY DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Expansion of Opioid Safety Initiative.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall expand the Opioid Safety Initiative of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs to include all medical facilities of the Department.
    (b) Pain Management Education and Training.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the Opioid Safety 
        Initiative of the Department, the Secretary shall require all 
        employees of the Department responsible for prescribing opioids 
        to receive education and training described in paragraph (2).
            (2) Education and training.--Education and training 
        described in this paragraph is education and training on pain 
        management and safe opioid prescribing practices for purposes 
        of safely and effectively managing patients with chronic pain, 
        including education and training on the following:
                    (A) The implementation of and full compliance with 
                the VA/DOD Clinical Practice Guideline for Management 
                of Opioid Therapy for Chronic Pain, including any 
                update to such guideline.
                    (B) The use of evidence-based pain management 
                therapies, including cognitive-behavioral therapy, 
                nonopioid alternatives, and non-drug methods and 
                procedures for managing pain and related health 
                conditions including complementary and integrative 
                health services.
                    (C) Screening and identification of patients with 
                substance use disorder, including drug-seeking 
                behavior, before prescribing opioids, assessment of the 
                risk potential for patients developing an addiction, 
                and referral of patients to appropriate addiction 
                treatment professionals if addiction is identified or 
                strongly suspected.
                    (D) Communication with patients on the potential 
                harm associated with the use of opioids and other 
                controlled substances, including the need to safely 
                store and dispose of supplies relating to the use of 
                opioids and other controlled substances.
                    (E) Such other education and training as the 
                Secretary considers appropriate to ensure that veterans 
                receive safe and high-quality pain management care from 
                the Department.
            (3) Use of existing program.--In providing education and 
        training described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall use 
        the Interdisciplinary Chronic Pain Management Training Team 
        Program of the Department (or any successor program).
    (c) Pain Management Teams.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the Opioid Safety 
        Initiative of the Department, the director of each medical 
        facility of the Department shall identify and designate a pain 
        management team of health care professionals, which may include 
        board certified pain medicine specialists, responsible for 
        coordinating and overseeing pain management therapy at such 
        facility for patients experiencing acute and chronic pain that 
        is noncancer related.
            (2) Establishment of protocols.--
                    (A) In general.--In consultation with the Directors 
                of the Veterans Integrated Service Networks, the 
                Secretary shall establish standard protocols for the 
                designation of pain management teams at each medical 
                facility of the Department.
                    (B) Consultation on prescription of opioids.--Each 
                protocol established for a medical facility under 
                subparagraph (A) shall ensure that any health care 
                provider without expertise in prescribing analgesics or 
                who has not completed the education and training under 
                subsection (b), such as a mental health care provider, 
                does not prescribe opioids to a patient unless that 
                health care provider--
                            (i) consults with a health care provider 
                        with pain management expertise or who is on the 
                        pain management team of the medical facility; 
                        and
                            (ii) refers the patient to that pain 
                        management team for any subsequent 
                        prescriptions and related therapy.
            (3) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the director of each 
                medical facility of the Department shall submit to the 
                Under Secretary for Health of the Department and the 
                Director of the Veterans Integrated Service Network in 
                which the medical facility is located a report 
                identifying the health care professionals that have 
                been designated as members of the pain management team 
                at the medical facility under paragraph (1).
                    (B) Elements.--Each report submitted under 
                subparagraph (A) with respect to a medical facility of 
                the Department shall include--
                            (i) a certification as to whether all 
                        members of the pain management team at the 
                        medical facility have completed the education 
                        and training required under subsection (b);
                            (ii) a plan for the management and referral 
                        of patients to such pain management team if 
                        health care providers without expertise in 
                        prescribing analgesics prescribe opioid 
                        medications to treat acute and chronic pain 
                        that is noncancer related; and
                            (iii) a certification as to whether the 
                        medical facility--
                                    (I) fully complies with the 
                                stepped-care model of pain management 
                                and other pain management policies of 
                                the Department; or
                                    (II) does not fully comply with the 
                                stepped-care model of pain management 
                                and other pain management policies of 
                                the Department but is carrying out a 
                                corrective plan of action to ensure 
                                such full compliance.
    (d) Tracking and Monitoring of Opioid Use.--
            (1) Prescription drug monitoring programs of states.--In 
        carrying out the Opioid Safety Initiative and the Opioid 
        Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) ensure access by health care providers of the 
                Department to information on controlled substances, 
                including opioids and benzodiazepines, prescribed to 
                veterans who receive care outside the Department 
                through the prescription drug monitoring program of 
                each State with such a program, including by seeking to 
                enter into memoranda of understanding with States to 
                allow shared access of such information between States 
                and the Department;
                    (B) include such information in the Opioid Therapy 
                Risk Report tool of the Department; and
                    (C) require health care providers of the Department 
                to submit to the prescription drug monitoring program 
                of each State with such a program information on 
                prescriptions of controlled substances received by 
                veterans in that State under the laws administered by 
                the Secretary.
            (2) Report on tracking of data on opioid use.--Not later 
        than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives a report on the feasibility and advisability 
        of improving the Opioid Therapy Risk Report tool of the 
        Department to allow for more advanced real-time tracking of and 
        access to data on--
                    (A) the key clinical indicators with respect to the 
                totality of opioid use by veterans;
                    (B) concurrent prescribing by health care providers 
                of the Department of opioids in different health care 
                settings, including data on concurrent prescribing of 
                opioids to treat mental health disorders other than 
                opioid use disorder; and
                    (C) mail-order prescriptions of opioids prescribed 
                to veterans under the laws administered by the 
                Secretary.
    (e) Availability of Opioid Receptor Antagonists.--
            (1) Increased availability and use.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall increase the 
                availability of opioid receptor antagonists approved by 
                the Food and Drug Administration, such as naloxone, to 
                veterans.
                    (B) Availability, training, and distribution.--In 
                carrying out subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall, not 
                later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
                this Act--
                            (i) equip each pharmacy of the Department 
                        with opioid receptor antagonists approved by 
                        the Food and Drug Administration to be 
                        dispensed to outpatients as needed; and
                            (ii) expand the Overdose Education and 
                        Naloxone Distribution program of the Department 
                        to ensure that all veterans in receipt of 
                        health care under the laws administered by the 
                        Secretary who are at risk of opioid overdose 
                        may access such opioid receptor antagonists and 
                        training on the proper administration of such 
                        opioid receptor antagonists.
                    (C) Veterans who are at risk.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (B), veterans who are at risk of opioid 
                overdose include--
                            (i) veterans receiving long-term opioid 
                        therapy;
                            (ii) veterans receiving opioid therapy who 
                        have a history of substance use disorder or 
                        prior instances of overdose; and
                            (iii) veterans who are at risk as 
                        determined by a health care provider who is 
                        treating the veteran.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
        on compliance with paragraph (1) that includes an assessment of 
        any remaining steps to be implemented by the Secretary to 
        comply with such paragraph.
    (f) Inclusion of Certain Information and Capabilities in Opioid 
Therapy Risk Report Tool.--
            (1) Information.--The Secretary shall include in the Opioid 
        Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department--
                    (A) information on the most recent time the tool 
                was accessed by a health care provider of the 
                Department with respect to each veteran; and
                    (B) information on the results of the most recent 
                urine drug test for each veteran.
            (2) Capabilities.--The Secretary shall include in the 
        Opioid Therapy Risk Report tool the ability of health care 
        providers of the Department to determine whether a health care 
        provider of the Department prescribed opioids to a veteran 
        without checking the information in the tool with respect to 
        the veteran.
    (g) Notification of Risk in Computerized Health Record.--The 
Secretary shall modify the Computerized Patient Record System of the 
Department to ensure that any health care provider that accesses the 
record of a veteran, regardless of the reason the veteran seeks care 
from the health care provider, will be immediately notified whether the 
veteran--
            (1) is receiving opioid therapy and has a history of 
        substance use disorder or prior instances of overdose;
            (2) has a history of opioid abuse; or
            (3) is at risk of becoming an opioid abuser as determined 
        by a health care provider who is treating the veteran.
    (h) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Controlled substance.--The term ``controlled 
        substance'' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of 
        the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).
            (2) State.--The term ``State'' means each of the several 
        States, territories, and possessions of the United States, the 
        District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.

SEC. 253. ENHANCEMENT OF JOINT WORKING GROUP ON PAIN MANAGEMENT OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              DEFENSE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Pain Management Working 
Group of the Health Executive Committee of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs-Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee established 
under section 320 of title 38, United States Code, includes a focus on 
the following:
            (1) The opioid prescribing practices of health care 
        providers of each Department.
            (2) The ability of each Department to manage acute and 
        chronic pain among individuals receiving health care from that 
        Department, including training health care providers with 
        respect to pain management.
            (3) The use by each Department of complementary and 
        integrative health in treating such individuals.
            (4) The concurrent use by health care providers of each 
        Department of opioids for patients who take prescription drugs, 
        including benzodiazepines, to treat mental health disorders.
            (5) The use of care transition plans by health care 
        providers of each Department to address case management issues 
        for patients receiving opioid therapy who transition between 
        inpatient and outpatient settings.
            (6) The coordination in coverage of and consistent access 
        to medications prescribed for patients transitioning from 
        receiving health care from the Department of Defense to 
        receiving health care from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (7) The ability of each Department to properly screen, 
        identify, and refer for treatment patients with substance abuse 
        disorders who are seeking treatment for acute and chronic pain 
        management conditions.
    (b) Coordination and Consultation.--The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs and the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the working 
group described in subsection (a)--
            (1) coordinates the activities of the working group with 
        other relevant working groups established under section 320 of 
        title 38, United States Code, including the working groups on 
        evidence based practice, patient safety, pharmacy, and 
        psychological health;
            (2) consults with other relevant Federal agencies, 
        including the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with 
        respect to the activities of the working group;
            (3) consults with the Department of Veterans Affairs and 
        the Department of Defense with respect to the VA/DOD Clinical 
        Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic 
        Pain, or any successor guideline, before any update to the 
        guideline is released; and
            (4) reviews and comments on the guideline described in 
        paragraph (3) before any update to such guideline is released.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the working group described in 
subsection (a) is able to meaningfully consult with respect to the 
updated guideline required under subsection (a) of section 251, as 
required by subsection (b) of such section, not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 254. REVIEW, INVESTIGATION, AND REPORT ON USE OF OPIOIDS IN 
              TREATMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Comptroller General Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the House of Representatives a report on the Opioid Safety 
        Initiative of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the opioid 
        prescribing practices of health care providers of the 
        Department.
            (2) Elements.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the implementation and 
                monitoring by the Veterans Health Administration of the 
                Opioid Safety Initiative of the Department, including 
                examining, as appropriate, the following:
                            (i) How the Department monitors the key 
                        clinical outcomes of such safety initiative 
                        (for example, the percentage of unique veterans 
                        visiting each medical center of the Department 
                        that are prescribed an opioid or an opioid and 
                        benzodiazepine concurrently) and how the 
                        Department uses that information--
                                    (I) to improve prescribing 
                                practices; and
                                    (II) to identify high prescribing 
                                or otherwise inappropriate prescribing 
                                practices by health care providers.
                            (ii) How the Department monitors the use of 
                        the Opioid Therapy Risk Report tool of the 
                        Department (as developed through such safety 
                        initiative) and compliance with such tool by 
                        medical facilities and health care providers of 
                        the Department, including any findings by the 
                        Department of prescription rates or 
                        prescription practices by medical facilities or 
                        health care providers that are inappropriate.
                            (iii) The implementation of academic 
                        detailing programs within the Veterans 
                        Integrated Service Networks of the Department 
                        and how such programs are being used to improve 
                        opioid prescribing practices.
                    (B) Information with respect to known deaths 
                resulting from sentinel events involving veterans 
                prescribed opioids by a health care provider of the 
                Department.
                    (C) Information made available under the Opioid 
                Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department with respect 
                to the following:
                            (i) Overall prescription rates and, if 
                        available, indications used by health care 
                        providers for prescribing chronic opioid 
                        therapy to treat noncancer, non-palliative 
                        care, and non-hospice care patients.
                            (ii) The prescription rates and indications 
                        used by health care providers of the Department 
                        for prescribing benzodiazepines and chronic 
                        opioid therapy concurrently.
                            (iii) The practice by health care providers 
                        of the Department of prescribing opioids to 
                        treat patients without any known pain, 
                        including to treat patients with mental health 
                        disorders other than an opioid use disorder.
                    (D) An evaluation of processes of the Department to 
                oversee opioid use among veterans, including processes 
                to identify and remedy potential overprescribing of 
                opioids by health care providers of the Department, and 
                an evaluation of the use and effectiveness of such 
                processes.
                    (E) An evaluation of processes of the Department to 
                oversee and ensure the implementation by medical 
                centers of the Department of the VA/DOD Clinical 
                Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy, as 
                updated under section 251(a), including any figures or 
                approaches used by the Department to assess 
                implementation and compliance with such guideline by 
                medical centers and whether any medical centers are 
                operating action plans to improve compliance with such 
                guideline.
                    (F) An assessment of the data that the Department 
                has developed to review the opioid prescribing 
                practices of health care providers of the Department, 
                as required by this subtitle, including a review of how 
                the Department identifies the practices of individual 
                health care providers that warrant further review based 
                on--
                            (i) prescribing levels;
                            (ii) health conditions for which the health 
                        care provider is prescribing opioids or opioids 
                        and benzodiazepines concurrently; or
                            (iii) other practices of the health care 
                        provider.
    (b) Review of Prescription Rates.--Not later than one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
annually thereafter, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, with 
respect to each medical facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs, 
collect and review information on opioids prescribed by health care 
providers at the facility to treat noncancer, non-palliative care, and 
non-hospice care patients, including information on--
            (1) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed opioids, and 
        benzodiazepines and opioids concurrently, to such patients and 
        the aggregate of such prescription rates for all health care 
        providers at the facility;
            (2) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed benzodiazepines or opioids 
        to such patients to treat conditions for which benzodiazepines 
        or opioids are not a recommended treatment and the aggregate of 
        such prescription rates for all health care providers at the 
        facility;
            (3) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed or dispensed mail-order 
        prescriptions of opioids to such patients while such patients 
        were being treated with opioids on an inpatient-basis and the 
        aggregate of such prescription rates for all health care 
        providers at the facility; and
            (4) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed opioids to such patients 
        who were also concurrently prescribed opioids by a health care 
        provider who is not a health care provider of the Department 
        and the aggregate of such prescription rates for all health 
        care providers at the facility.
    (c) Investigation of Prescription Rates.--If the Secretary 
determines that a prescription rate described in subsection (b) with 
respect to a health care provider or medical facility of the Department 
conflicts with or is otherwise inconsistent with the standards of 
appropriate and safe care, the Secretary shall--
            (1) through the Office of the Medical Inspector of the 
        Veterans Health Administration, conduct a full investigation of 
        the health care provider or medical facility, as the case may 
        be;
            (2) immediately notify the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
        of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives who represents the area in which the health 
        care provider or medical facility, as the case may be, is 
        located; and
            (3) include information relating to such determination, 
        prescription rate, and health care provider or medical 
        facility, as the case may be, in the report required under 
        subsection (d).
    (d) Report on Opioid Therapy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
        annually thereafter through 2026, the Secretary shall submit to 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives 
        a report that contains, for the one-year period preceding the 
        submittal of the report, the following:
                    (A) The number of patients and the percentage of 
                the patient population of the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs who were prescribed opioids, and 
                benzodiazepines and opioids concurrently, by a health 
                care provider of the Department.
                    (B) The number of patients and the percentage of 
                the patient population of the Department without any 
                documented pain who were prescribed opioids by a health 
                care provider of the Department, including those who 
                were prescribed benzodiazepines and opioids 
                concurrently.
                    (C) The number of noncancer, non-palliative care, 
                and non-hospice care patients and the percentage of 
                such patients who were treated with opioids by a health 
                care provider of the Department on an inpatient-basis 
                and who were also sent prescription opioids by mail by 
                the Department while being treated on an inpatient-
                basis.
                    (D) The number of noncancer, non-palliative care, 
                and non-hospice care patients and the percentage of 
                such patients who were prescribed opioids concurrently 
                by a health care provider of the Department and a 
                health care provider who is not a health care provider 
                of the Department.
                    (E) With respect to each medical facility of the 
                Department, the number of times a pharmacist at the 
                facility overrode a critical drug interaction warning 
                with respect to an interaction between opioids and 
                another medication before dispensing such other 
                medication to a veteran.
                    (F) The results of the review conducted under 
                subsection (b) (including a summary of such review at 
                the Veterans Integrated Service Network level) and the 
                investigation conducted under subsection (c) (including 
                information described in subsection (c)(3)), compiled 
                in such a manner as the Secretary determines 
                appropriate to ensure that the information is easily 
                accessible.
            (2) Subsequent reports.--Each report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) after the date that is two years after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act shall include an assessment of the 
        compliance of the Department with the VA/DOD Clinical Practice 
        Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic Pain, 
        including any update to such guideline.
    (e) Prescription Rate Defined.--In this section, the term 
``prescription rate'' means, with respect to a health care provider or 
medical facility of the Department, each of the following:
            (1) The number of patients treated with opioids by the 
        health care provider or at the medical facility, as the case 
        may be, divided by the total number of pharmacy users of that 
        health care provider or medical facility.
            (2) The average number of morphine equivalents per day 
        prescribed by the health care provider or at the medical 
        facility, as the case may be, to patients being treated with 
        opioids.
            (3) Of the patients being treated with opioids by the 
        health care provider or at the medical facility, as the case 
        may be, the average number of prescriptions of opioids per 
        patient.

SEC. 255. ELIMINATION OF COPAYMENT REQUIREMENT FOR VETERANS RECEIVING 
              OPIOID ANTAGONISTS OR EDUCATION ON USE OF OPIOID 
              ANTAGONISTS.

    (a) Copayment for Opioid Antagonists.--Section 1722A(a) of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
    ``(4) Paragraph (1) does not apply to opioid antagonists furnished 
under this chapter to a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a 
specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such 
an overdose.''.
    (b) Copayment for Education on Use of Opioid Antagonists.--Section 
1710(g)(3) of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking ``with respect to home health services'' 
        and inserting ``with respect to the following:
            ``(A) Home health services''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) Education on the use of opioid antagonists to reverse 
        the effects of overdoses of specific medications or 
        substances.''.

               Subtitle G--Patient Advocacy and Outreach

SEC. 261. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF PATIENT ADVOCACY OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7309A. Office of Patient Advocacy
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department within 
the Office of the Under Secretary for Health an office to be known as 
the `Office of Patient Advocacy' (in this section referred to as the 
`Office').
    ``(b) Head.--(1) The Director of the Office of Patient Advocacy 
shall be the head of the Office.
    ``(2) The Director of the Office of Patient Advocacy shall be 
appointed by the Under Secretary for Health from among individuals 
qualified to perform the duties of the position and shall report 
directly to the Under Secretary for Health.
    ``(c) Function.--(1) The function of the Office is to carry out the 
Patient Advocacy Program of the Department.
    ``(2) In carrying out the Patient Advocacy Program of the 
Department, the Director shall ensure that patient advocates of the 
Department--
            ``(A) advocate on behalf of veterans with respect to health 
        care received and sought by veterans under the laws 
        administered by the Secretary;
            ``(B) carry out the responsibilities specified in 
        subsection (d); and
            ``(C) receive training in patient advocacy.
    ``(d) Patient Advocacy Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of 
each patient advocate at a medical facility of the Department are the 
following:
            ``(1) To resolve complaints by veterans with respect to 
        health care furnished under the laws administered by the 
        Secretary that cannot be resolved at the point of service or at 
        a higher level easily accessible to the veteran.
            ``(2) To present at various meetings and to various 
        committees the issues experienced by veterans in receiving such 
        health care at such medical facility.
            ``(3) To express to veterans their rights and 
        responsibilities as patients in receiving such health care.
            ``(4) To manage the Patient Advocate Tracking System of the 
        Department at such medical facility.
            ``(5) To compile data at such medical facility of 
        complaints made by veterans with respect to the receipt of such 
        health care at such medical facility and the satisfaction of 
        veterans with such health care at such medical facility to 
        determine whether there are trends in such data.
            ``(6) To ensure that a process is in place for the 
        distribution of the data compiled under paragraph (5) to 
        appropriate leaders, committees, services, and staff of the 
        Department.
            ``(7) To identify, not less frequently than quarterly, 
        opportunities for improvements in the furnishing of such health 
        care to veterans at such medical facility based on complaints 
        by veterans.
            ``(8) To ensure that any significant complaint by a veteran 
        with respect to such health care is brought to the attention of 
        appropriate staff of the Department to trigger an assessment of 
        whether there needs to be a further analysis of the problem at 
        the facility-wide level.
            ``(9) To support any patient advocacy programs carried out 
        by the Department.
            ``(10) To ensure that all appeals and final decisions with 
        respect to the receipt of such health care are entered into the 
        Patient Advocate Tracking System of the Department.
            ``(11) To understand all laws, directives, and other rules 
        with respect to the rights and responsibilities of veterans in 
        receiving such health care, including the appeals processes 
        available to veterans.
            ``(12) To ensure that veterans receiving mental health 
        care, or the surrogate decision-makers for such veterans, are 
        aware of the rights of veterans to seek representation from 
        systems established under section 103 of the Protection and 
        Advocacy for Mentally Ill Individuals Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 
        10803) to protect and advocate the rights of individuals with 
        mental illness and to investigate incidents of abuse and 
        neglect of such individuals.
            ``(13) To fulfill requirements established by the Secretary 
        with respect to the inspection of controlled substances.
            ``(14) To document potentially threatening behavior and 
        report such behavior to appropriate authorities.
    ``(e) Training.--In providing training to patient advocates under 
subsection (c)(2)(C), the Director shall ensure that such training is 
consistent throughout the Department.
    ``(f) Controlled Substance Defined.--In this section, the term 
`controlled substance' has the meaning given that term in section 102 
of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 7309 the following new item:

``7309A. Office of Patient Advocacy.''.
    (c) Date Fully Operational.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall ensure that the Office of Patient Advocacy established under 
section 7309A of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection 
(a), is fully operational not later than the date that is one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 262. COMMUNITY MEETINGS ON IMPROVING CARE FROM DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Community Meetings.--
            (1) Medical centers.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once 
        every 90 days thereafter, each medical center of the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs shall host a community meeting open to the 
        public on improving health care from the Department.
            (2) Community-based outpatient clinics.--Not later than one 
        year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less 
        frequently than annually thereafter, each community-based 
        outpatient clinic of the Department shall host a community 
        meeting open to the public on improving health care from the 
        Department.
    (b) Attendance by Director of Veterans Integrated Service Network 
or Designee.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), each community 
        meeting hosted by a medical center or community-based 
        outpatient clinic under subsection (a) shall be attended by the 
        Director of the Veterans Integrated Service Network in which 
        the medical center or community-based outpatient clinic, as the 
        case may be, is located, or an employee designated by the 
        Director who works in the office of the Director.
            (2) Attendance by director.--Each Director of a Veterans 
        Integrated Service Network shall attend not fewer than one 
        community meeting under subsection (a) hosted by each medical 
        center located in the Veterans Integrated Service Network each 
        year.
    (c) Notice.--With respect to any community meeting at a medical 
facility of the Department under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs shall notify the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives, and each Member of Congress who represents the area in 
which the medical facility is located of such meeting not later than 10 
days before such meeting occurs.

SEC. 263. OUTREACH TO VETERANS REGARDING EFFECT OF CERTAIN DELAYED 
              PAYMENTS BY CHIEF BUSINESS OFFICE OF DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Outreach.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
        conduct outreach, including through national and local veterans 
        service organizations, to inform veterans of how to resolve 
        credit issues caused by delayed payment of a claim for 
        emergency hospital care, medical services, or other emergency 
        health care furnished through a non-Department of Veterans 
        Affairs provider.
            (2) Telephone number.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        toll-free telephone number for veterans to report credit issues 
        described in paragraph (1) to the Chief Business Office of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Annual Report.--
            (1) Report required.--
                    (A) In general.--During the five-year period 
                beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
                Secretary shall annually submit to Congress a report on 
                the effectiveness of the Chief Business Office of the 
                Department in providing timely payment of proper 
                invoices for emergency hospital care, medical services, 
                or other emergency health care furnished through non-
                Department providers by the required payment date 
                during both the five-year period preceding the date of 
                the report and the one-year period preceding such date.
                    (B) Payments by visns.--For any part of the period 
                covered by a report under this subsection that occurred 
                before October 1, 2014, the report shall evaluate the 
                provision of payments described in subparagraph (A) by 
                the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
            (2) Matters included.--Each report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include, for each period covered by the 
        report, the following:
                    (A) The number of veterans who contacted the 
                Secretary regarding a delayed payment that negatively 
                affected, or will potentially negatively affect, the 
                credit of the veteran.
                    (B) The total amount of interest penalties paid by 
                the Secretary under section 3902 of title 31, United 
                States Code, by reason of a delayed payment.
                    (C) The number of proper invoices submitted, listed 
                in a table for each quarter and fiscal year of each 
                such period that includes--
                            (i) the total amount owed by the Secretary 
                        under the proper invoices;
                            (ii) the payment status of each proper 
                        invoice, as of the date of the report; and
                            (iii) the period that elapsed until each 
                        proper invoice was paid, including an 
                        explanation of any delayed payment.
                    (D) Any comments by the Secretary regarding delayed 
                payments made by health care providers.
                    (E) A description of the best practices that the 
                Chief Business Office of the Department uses to provide 
                timely payment of proper invoices, including a plan to 
                improve such timely payments.
    (c) Quarterly Reports on Pending Claims.--
            (1) In general.--During the five-year period beginning on 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Business 
        Office of the Department shall submit to Congress quarterly 
        reports on the number of pending claims for reimbursement for 
        emergency hospital care, medical services, and other emergency 
        health care furnished through non-Department providers.
            (2) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, with respect to pending claims described in such 
        paragraph, the following:
                    (A) The total number of such pending claims for 
                each hospital system of the Department, as of the last 
                day of the quarter covered by the report.
                    (B) The total number of veterans who submitted such 
                a pending claim in each State, as of such day.
                    (C) The aggregate amount of all such pending claims 
                in each State, as of such day.
                    (D) As of such day--
                            (i) the number of such pending claims that 
                        have been pending for 30 days or longer;
                            (ii) the number of such pending claims that 
                        have been pending for 90 days or longer; and
                            (iii) the number of such pending claims 
                        that have been pending for one year or longer.
                    (E) For each hospital system, for the quarter 
                covered by the report--
                            (i) the number of claims for reimbursement 
                        for emergency hospital care, medical services, 
                        and other emergency health care furnished 
                        through non-Department providers approved 
                        during such quarter;
                            (ii) the number of such claims denied 
                        during such quarter; and
                            (iii) the number of such claims denied 
                        listed by each denial reason group.
    (d) Comptroller General Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study that evaluates the effectiveness 
        of the Chief Business Office of the Department in providing 
        timely payment of proper invoices for emergency hospital care, 
        medical services, or other emergency health care furnished 
        through non-Department providers by the required payment date.
            (2) Submittal.--The Comptroller General shall submit to 
        Congress a report on the study conducted under paragraph (1), 
        including the total amount of interest penalties paid by the 
        Secretary under section 3902 of title 31, United States Code, 
        by reason of a delayed payment.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``delayed payment'' means a proper invoice 
        that is not paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs until 
        after the required payment date.
            (2) The term ``proper invoice'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 3901(a) of title 31, United States Code.
            (3) The term ``required payment date'' means the date that 
        payment is due under a contract pursuant to section 3903(a) of 
        title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 264. IMPROVEMENT OF AWARENESS OF PATIENT ADVOCACY PROGRAM AND 
              PATIENT BILL OF RIGHTS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, in as many prominent locations 
as appropriate to be seen by the largest percentage of patients and 
family members of patients at each medical facility of the Department 
of Veterans Affairs--
            (1) display the purposes of the Patient Advocacy Program of 
        the Department and the contact information for the patient 
        advocate at such medical facility; and
            (2) display the rights and responsibilities of--
                    (A) patients and family members of patients at such 
                medical facility; and
                    (B) with respect to community living centers and 
                other residential facilities of the Department, 
                residents and family members of residents at such 
                medical facility.

SEC. 265. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON PATIENT ADVOCACY PROGRAM OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than three years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
report on the Patient Advocacy Program of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs (in this section referred to as the ``Program'').
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a)--
            (1) shall include--
                    (A) such recommendations and proposals for 
                improving or modifying the Program as the Comptroller 
                General considers appropriate; and
                    (B) such other information with respect to the 
                Program as the Comptroller General considers 
                appropriate; and
            (2) may include--
                    (A) a description of the Program, including--
                            (i) the purposes of the Program;
                            (ii) the activities carried out under the 
                        Program; and
                            (iii) an assessment by the Secretary of 
                        Veterans Affairs of the sufficiency of the 
                        Program in achieving the purposes of the 
                        Program;
                    (B) an assessment of the sufficiency of staffing of 
                employees of the Department responsible for carrying 
                out the Program;
                    (C) an assessment of the sufficiency of the 
                training of such employees; and
                    (D) an assessment of--
                            (i) awareness of the Program among veterans 
                        and their family members; and
                            (ii) the use of the Program by veterans and 
                        their family members.

        Subtitle H--Administration of Non-Department Health Care

SEC. 271. PAYMENT OF NON-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS HEALTH CARE 
              PROVIDERS.

    (a) Payment of Providers.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 17 of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 1703 
        the following new section:
``Sec. 1703A. Payment of non-Department health care providers
    ``(a) Prompt Payment Compliance.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
payments made to non-Department health care providers pursuant to an 
agreement under this chapter comply with chapter 39 of title 31 
(commonly referred to as the `Prompt Payment Act') and the requirements 
of this section. If there is a conflict between the requirements of the 
Prompt Payment Act and the requirements of this section, the Secretary 
shall comply with the requirements of this section.
    ``(b) Submittal of Claim.--(1) A non-Department health care 
provider that seeks reimbursement under this section for care or 
services furnished under the laws administered by the Secretary shall 
submit to the Secretary a claim for reimbursement not later than 180 
days after furnishing such care or services.
    ``(2) On and after January 1, 2019, the Secretary shall not accept 
any claim under this section that is submitted to the Secretary in a 
manner other than electronically.
    ``(c) Payment Schedule.--(1) The Secretary shall reimburse a non-
Department health care provider for care or services furnished under 
the laws administered by the Secretary--
            ``(A) in the case of a clean claim submitted to the 
        Secretary electronically, not later than 30 days after 
        receiving the claim; or
            ``(B) in the case of a clean claim submitted to the 
        Secretary in a manner other than electronically, not later than 
        45 days after receiving the claim.
    ``(2)(A) If the Secretary determines that a claim received from a 
non-Department health care provider for care or services furnished 
under the laws administered by the Secretary is a non-clean claim, the 
Secretary shall submit to the provider, not later than 30 days after 
receiving the claim--
            ``(i) a notification that the claim is a non-clean claim;
            ``(ii) an explanation of why the claim has been determined 
        to be a non-clean claim; and
            ``(iii) an identification of the information or 
        documentation that is required to make the claim a clean claim.
    ``(B) If the Secretary does not comply with the requirements of 
subparagraph (A) with respect to a claim, the claim shall be deemed a 
clean claim for purposes of paragraph (1).
    ``(3) Upon receipt by the Secretary of information or documentation 
described in subparagraph (A)(iii) with respect to a claim, the 
Secretary shall reimburse a non-Department health care provider for 
care or services furnished under the laws administered by the 
Secretary--
            ``(A) in the case of a claim submitted to the Secretary 
        electronically, not later than 30 days after receiving such 
        information or documentation; or
            ``(B) in the case of a claim submitted to the Secretary in 
        a manner other than electronically, not later than 45 days 
        after receiving such information or documentation.
    ``(4) If the Secretary fails to comply with the deadlines for 
payment set forth in this subsection with respect to a claim, interest 
shall accrue on the amount owed under such claim in accordance with 
section 3902 of title 31, United States Code.
    ``(d) Information and Documentation Required.--(1) The Secretary 
shall provide to all non-Department health care providers that furnish 
care or services under the laws administered by the Secretary a list of 
information and documentation that is required to establish a clean 
claim under this section.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall consult with entities in the health care 
industry, in the public and private sector, to determine the 
information and documentation to include in the list under paragraph 
(1).
    ``(3) If the Secretary modifies the information and documentation 
included in the list under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall notify 
all non-Department health care providers that furnish care or services 
under the laws administered by the Secretary not later than 30 days 
before such modifications take effect.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `clean claim' means a claim for 
        reimbursement for care or services furnished by a non-
        Department health care provider under the laws administered by 
        the Secretary, on a nationally recognized standard format, that 
        includes the information and documentation necessary to 
        adjudicate the claim.
            ``(2) The term `non-clean claim' means a claim for 
        reimbursement for care or services furnished by a non-
        Department health care provider under the laws administered by 
        the Secretary, on a nationally recognized standard format, that 
        does not include the information and documentation necessary to 
        adjudicate the claim.
            ``(3) The term `non-Department health care provider' means 
        a health care provider that is not a health care provider of 
        the Department.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting 
        after the item related to section 1703 the following new item:

``1703A. Payment of non-Department health care providers.''.
    (b) Electronic Submittal of Claims for Reimbursement.--
            (1) Prohibition on acceptance of non-electronic claims.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), on and after January 1, 2019, the Secretary of 
                Veterans Affairs shall not accept any claim for 
                reimbursement under section 1703A of title 38, United 
                States Code, as added by subsection (a), that is 
                submitted to the Secretary in a manner other than 
                electronically, including medical records in connection 
                with such a claim.
                    (B) Exception.--If the Secretary determines that 
                accepting claims and medical records in a manner other 
                than electronically is necessary for the timely 
                processing of claims for reimbursement under such 
                section 1703A due to a failure or malfunction of the 
                electronic interface established under paragraph (2), 
                the Secretary--
                            (i) may accept claims and medical records 
                        in a manner other than electronically for a 
                        period not to exceed 90 days; and
                            (ii) shall submit to the Committee on 
                        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
                        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                        Representatives a report setting forth--
                                    (I) the reason for accepting claims 
                                and medical records in a manner other 
                                than electronically;
                                    (II) the duration of time that the 
                                Department of Veterans Affairs will 
                                accept claims and medical records in a 
                                manner other than electronically; and
                                    (III) the steps that the Department 
                                is taking to resolve such failure or 
                                malfunction.
            (2) Electronic interface.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2019, 
                the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs shall establish an electronic 
                interface for health care providers to submit claims 
                for reimbursement under such section 1703A.
                    (B) Functions.--The electronic interface 
                established under subparagraph (A) shall include the 
                following functions:
                            (i) A function through which a health care 
                        provider may input all relevant data required 
                        for claims submittal and reimbursement.
                            (ii) A function through which a health care 
                        provider may upload medical records to 
                        accompany a claim for reimbursement.
                            (iii) A function through which a health 
                        care provider may ascertain the status of a 
                        pending claim for reimbursement that--
                                    (I) indicates whether the claim is 
                                a clean claim or a non-clean claim; and
                                    (II) in the event that a submitted 
                                claim is indicated as a non-clean 
                                claim, provides--
                                            (aa) an explanation of why 
                                        the claim has been determined 
                                        to be a non-clean claim; and
                                            (bb) an identification of 
                                        the information or 
                                        documentation that is required 
                                        to make the claim a clean 
                                        claim.
                            (iv) A function through which a health care 
                        provider is notified when a claim for 
                        reimbursement is accepted or rejected.
                            (v) Such other features as the Secretary 
                        considers necessary.
                    (C) Protection of information.--
                            (i) In general.--The electronic interface 
                        established under subparagraph (A) shall be 
                        developed and implemented based on industry-
                        accepted information security and privacy 
                        engineering principles and best practices and 
                        shall provide for the following:
                                    (I) The elicitation, analysis, and 
                                prioritization of functional and 
                                nonfunctional information security and 
                                privacy requirements for such 
                                interface, including specific security 
                                and privacy services and architectural 
                                requirements relating to security and 
                                privacy based on a thorough analysis of 
                                all reasonably anticipated cyber and 
                                noncyber threats to the security and 
                                privacy of electronic protected health 
                                information made available through such 
                                interface.
                                    (II) The elicitation, analysis, and 
                                prioritization of secure development 
                                requirements relating to such 
                                interface.
                                    (III) The assurance that the 
                                prioritized information security and 
                                privacy requirements of such 
                                interface--
                                            (aa) are correctly 
                                        implemented in the design and 
                                        implementation of such 
                                        interface throughout the system 
                                        development lifecycle; and
                                            (bb) satisfy the 
                                        information objectives of such 
                                        interface relating to security 
                                        and privacy throughout the 
                                        system development lifecycle.
                            (ii) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:
                                    (I) Electronic protected health 
                                information.--The term ``electronic 
                                protected health information'' has the 
                                meaning given that term in section 
                                160.103 of title 45, Code of Federal 
                                Regulations, as in effect on the date 
                                of the enactment of this Act.
                                    (II) Secure development 
                                requirements.--The term ``secure 
                                development requirements'' means, with 
                                respect to the electronic interface 
                                established under subparagraph (A), 
                                activities that are required to be 
                                completed during the system development 
                                lifecycle of such interface, such as 
                                secure coding principles and test 
                                methodologies.
            (3) Analysis of available technology for electronic 
        interface.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2017, or 
                before entering into a contract to procure or design 
                and build the electronic interface described in 
                paragraph (2) or making a decision to internally design 
                and build such electronic interface, whichever occurs 
                first, the Secretary shall--
                            (i) conduct an analysis of commercially 
                        available technology that may satisfy the 
                        requirements of such electronic interface set 
                        forth in such paragraph; and
                            (ii) submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
                        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
                        Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                        Representatives a report setting forth such 
                        analysis.
                    (B) Elements.--The report required under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) shall include the following:
                            (i) An evaluation of commercially available 
                        systems that may satisfy the requirements of 
                        paragraph (2).
                            (ii) The estimated cost of procuring a 
                        commercially available system if a suitable 
                        commercially available system exists.
                            (iii) If no suitable commercially available 
                        system exists, an assessment of the feasibility 
                        of modifying a commercially available system to 
                        meet the requirements of paragraph (2), 
                        including the estimated cost associated with 
                        such modifications.
                            (iv) If no suitable commercially available 
                        system exists and modifying a commercially 
                        available system is not feasible, an assessment 
                        of the estimated cost and time that would be 
                        required to contract with a commercial entity 
                        to design and build an electronic interface 
                        that meets the requirements of paragraph (2).
                            (v) If the Secretary determines that the 
                        Department has the capabilities required to 
                        design and build an electronic interface that 
                        meets the requirements of paragraph (2), an 
                        assessment of the estimated cost and time that 
                        would be required to design and build such 
                        electronic interface.
                            (vi) A description of the decision of the 
                        Secretary regarding how the Department plans to 
                        establish the electronic interface required 
                        under paragraph (2) and the justification of 
                        the Secretary for such decision.
            (4) Limitation on use of amounts.--The Secretary may not 
        spend any amounts to procure or design and build the electronic 
        interface described in paragraph (2) until the date that is 60 
        days after the date on which the Secretary submits the report 
        required under paragraph (3)(A)(ii).

SEC. 272. AUTHORIZATION OF AGREEMENTS BETWEEN THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS AND NON-DEPARTMENT PROVIDERS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 17 of title 38, United 
States Code, as amended by section 271(a)(1), is further amended by 
inserting after section 1703A the following new section:
``Sec. 1703B. Veterans Care Agreements
    ``(a) Agreements To Furnish Care.--(1) In addition to the authority 
of the Secretary under this chapter to furnish hospital care, medical 
services, and extended care at facilities of the Department and under 
contracts or sharing agreements entered into under authorities other 
than this section, the Secretary may furnish hospital care, medical 
services, and extended care through the use of agreements entered into 
under this section. An agreement entered into under this section may be 
referred to as a `Veterans Care Agreement'.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary may enter into agreements under this section 
with eligible providers that are certified under subsection (d) if the 
Secretary is not feasibly able to furnish care or services described in 
paragraph (1) at facilities of the Department.
    ``(B) The Secretary is not feasibly able to furnish care or 
services described in paragraph (1) at facilities of the Department if 
the Secretary determines that the medical condition of the veteran, the 
travel involved, the nature of the care or services required, or a 
combination of those factors make the use of facilities of the 
Department impracticable or inadvisable.
    ``(3) An eligible provider, at its discretion, may opt to enter 
into an agreement under this section instead of a contract or sharing 
agreement under authorities other than this section.
    ``(b) Receipt of Care.--(1) Eligibility of a veteran under this 
section for care or services described in subsection (a)(1) shall be 
determined as if such care or services were furnished in a facility of 
the Department and provisions of this title applicable to veterans 
receiving such care or services in a facility of the Department shall 
apply to veterans receiving such care or services under this section.
    ``(2) In carrying out this section, the Secretary--
            ``(A) may not direct veterans seeking care or services 
        described in subsection (a)(1) to health care providers that 
        have entered into contracts or sharing agreements under 
        authorities other than this section, except for agreements 
        under section 101 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
        Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 
        note); and
            ``(B) shall ensure that veterans have the option to 
        determine whether to receive such care or services from a 
        health care provider described in subparagraph (A) or an 
        eligible provider that has entered into an agreement under this 
        section.
    ``(c) Eligible Providers.--For purposes of this section, an 
eligible provider is one of the following:
            ``(1) A provider of services that has enrolled and entered 
        into a provider agreement under section 1866(a) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc(a)).
            ``(2) A physician or supplier that has enrolled and entered 
        into a participation agreement under section 1842(h) of such 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1395u(h)).
            ``(3) A provider of items and services receiving payment 
        under a State plan under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 
        et seq.) or a waiver of such a plan.
            ``(4) A health care provider that is--
                    ``(A) an Aging and Disability Resource Center, an 
                area agency on aging, or a State agency (as defined in 
                section 102 of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 
                U.S.C. 3002)); or
                    ``(B) a center for independent living (as defined 
                in section 702 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 
                U.S.C. 796a)).
            ``(5) A provider that is located in--
                    ``(A) an area that is designated as a health 
                professional shortage area (as defined in section 332 
                of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254e)); or
                    ``(B) a county that is not in a metropolitan 
                statistical area.
            ``(6) Such other health care providers as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate for purposes of this section.
    ``(d) Certification of Eligible Providers.--(1) The Secretary shall 
establish a process for the certification of eligible providers under 
this section that shall, at a minimum, set forth the following.
            ``(A) Procedures for the submittal of applications for 
        certification and deadlines for actions taken by the Secretary 
        with respect to such applications.
            ``(B) Standards and procedures for approval and denial of 
        certification, duration of certification, revocation of 
        certification, and recertification.
            ``(C) Procedures for assessing eligible providers based on 
        the risk of fraud, waste, and abuse of such providers similar 
        to the level of screening under section 1866(j)(2)(B) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395cc(j)(2)(B)) and the 
        standards set forth under section 9.104 of title 48, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall deny or revoke certification to an 
eligible provider under this subsection if the Secretary determines 
that the eligible provider is currently--
            ``(A) excluded from participation in a Federal health care 
        program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f))) under section 1128 or 1128A of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a); or
            ``(B) identified as an excluded source on the list 
        maintained in the System for Award Management, or any successor 
        system.
    ``(e) Terms of Agreements.--Each agreement entered into with an 
eligible provider under this section shall include provisions requiring 
the eligible provider to do the following:
            ``(1) To accept payment for care or services furnished 
        under this section at rates established by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section, which shall be, to the extent 
        practicable, the rates paid by the United States for such care 
        or services to providers of services and suppliers under the 
        Medicare program under title XVIII of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.).
            ``(2) To accept payment under paragraph (1) as payment in 
        full for care or services furnished under this section and to 
        not seek any payment for such care or services from the 
        recipient of such care or services.
            ``(3) To furnish under this section only the care or 
        services authorized by the Department under this section unless 
        the eligible provider receives prior written consent from the 
        Department to furnish care or services outside the scope of 
        such authorization.
            ``(4) To bill the Department for care or services furnished 
        under this section in accordance with a methodology established 
        by the Secretary for purposes of this section.
            ``(5) Not to seek to recover or collect from a health-plan 
        contract or third party, as those terms are defined in section 
        1729 of this title, for any care or services for which payment 
        is made by the Department under this section.
            ``(6) To provide medical records for veterans furnished 
        care or services under this section to the Department in a time 
        frame and format specified by the Secretary for purposes of 
        this section.
            ``(7) To meet such other terms and conditions, including 
        quality of care assurance standards, as the Secretary may 
        specify for purposes of this section.
    ``(f) Termination of Agreements.--(1) An eligible provider may 
terminate an agreement with the Secretary under this section at such 
time and upon such notice to the Secretary as the Secretary may specify 
for purposes of this section.
    ``(2) The Secretary may terminate an agreement with an eligible 
provider under this section at such time and upon such notice to the 
eligible provider as the Secretary may specify for purposes of this 
section, if the Secretary--
            ``(A) determines that the eligible provider failed to 
        comply substantially with the provisions of the agreement or 
        with the provisions of this section and the regulations 
        prescribed thereunder;
            ``(B) determines that the eligible provider is--
                    ``(i) excluded from participation in a Federal 
                health care program (as defined in section 1128B(f) of 
                the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7b(f))) under 
                section 1128 or 1128A of the Social Security Act (42 
                U.S.C. 1320a-7 and 1320a-7a); or
                    ``(ii) identified as an excluded source on the list 
                maintained in the System for Award Management, or any 
                successor system;
            ``(C) ascertains that the eligible provider has been 
        convicted of a felony or other serious offense under Federal or 
        State law and determines that the continued participation of 
        the eligible provider would be detrimental to the best 
        interests of veterans or the Department; or
            ``(D) determines that it is reasonable to terminate the 
        agreement based on the health care needs of a veteran or 
        veterans.
    ``(g) Periodic Review of Certain Agreements.--(1) Not less 
frequently than once every two years, the Secretary shall review each 
Veterans Care Agreement of material size entered into during the two-
year period preceding the review to determine whether it is feasible 
and advisable to furnish the hospital care, medical services, or 
extended care furnished under such agreement at facilities of the 
Department or through contracts or sharing agreements entered into 
under authorities other than this section.
    ``(2)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), a Veterans Care Agreement is 
of material size as determined by the Secretary for purposes of this 
section.
    ``(B) A Veterans Care Agreement entered into after September 30, 
2016, for the purchase of extended care services is of material size if 
the purchase of such services under the agreement exceeds $1,000,000 
annually. The Secretary may adjust such amount to account for changes 
in the cost of health care based upon recognized health care market 
surveys and other available data and shall publish any such adjustments 
in the Federal Register.
    ``(h) Treatment of Certain Laws.--(1) An agreement under this 
section may be entered into without regard to any law that would 
require the Secretary to use competitive procedures in selecting the 
party with which to enter into the agreement.
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), and unless 
otherwise provided in this section or section 277 of the Jason 
Simcakoski Memorial Act or regulations prescribed pursuant to this 
section or such section 277, an eligible provider that enters into an 
agreement under this section is not subject to, in the carrying out of 
the agreement, any law to which an eligible provider described in 
subsection (b)(1), (b)(2), or (b)(3) is not subject under the original 
Medicare fee-for-service program under parts A and B of title XVIII of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395 et seq.) or the Medicaid 
program under title XIX of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
    ``(B) The exclusion under subparagraph (A) does not apply to laws 
regarding integrity, ethics, fraud, or that subject a person to civil 
or criminal penalties.
    ``(3) Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 (42 U.S.C. 2000e et 
seq.) shall apply with respect to an eligible provider that enters into 
an agreement under this section to the same extent as such title 
applies with respect to the eligible provider in providing care or 
services through an agreement or arrangement other than under this 
section.
    ``(i) Monitoring of Quality of Care.--The Secretary shall establish 
a system or systems, consistent with survey and certification 
procedures used by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services and 
State survey agencies to the extent practicable--
            ``(1) to monitor the quality of care and services furnished 
        to veterans under this section; and
            ``(2) to assess the quality of care and services furnished 
        by an eligible provider under this section for purposes of 
        determining whether to renew an agreement under this section 
        with the eligible provider.
    ``(j) Dispute Resolution.--The Secretary shall establish 
administrative procedures for eligible providers with which the 
Secretary has entered into an agreement under this section to present 
any dispute arising under or related to the agreement.
    ``(k) Termination of Authority.--The Secretary may not enter into 
an agreement under this section, other than for the provision of 
extended care or hospice care, after September 30, 2017.
    ``(l) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to alter any contract or agreement entered into between the 
Department and a State home (as that term is used in subchapter V of 
this chapter) before the date of the enactment of the Jason Simcakoski 
Memorial Act.
    ``(m) Annual Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of the Jason Simcakoski Memorial Act, and not less frequently 
than annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that contains the 
following:
            ``(1) The total number of agreements entered into with 
        eligible providers under this section.
            ``(2) A list of the medical centers of the Department that 
        have entered into agreements with eligible providers under this 
        section.''.
    (b) Regulations.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall prescribe 
an interim final rule to carry out section 1703B of such title, as 
added by subsection (a), not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 17 of such title, as amended by section 271(a)(2), is further 
amended by inserting after the item related to section 1703A the 
following new item:

``1703B. Veterans Care Agreements.''.

SEC. 273. ELIMINATION OF REQUIREMENT TO ACT AS SECONDARY PAYER FOR CARE 
              RELATING TO NON-SERVICE-CONNECTED DISABILITIES UNDER 
              CHOICE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Section 101(e) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3);
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (3); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
            ``(2) Responsibility for costs of certain care.--In any 
        case in which an eligible veteran is furnished hospital care or 
        medical services under this section for a non-service-connected 
        disability described in subsection (a)(2) of section 1729 of 
        title 38, United States Code, the Secretary shall recover or 
        collect reasonable charges for such care or services from a 
        health-care plan described in paragraph (3) in accordance with 
        such section.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Paragraph (1) of such section is amended 
by striking ``paragraph (4)'' and inserting ``paragraph (3)''.
    (c) Emergency Designations.--
            (1) In general.--This section is designated as an emergency 
        requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-
        You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)).
            (2) Designation in senate.--In the Senate, this section is 
        designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
        403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
        resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.

SEC. 274. REQUIREMENT FOR ADVANCE APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE MEDICAL 
              COMMUNITY CARE ACCOUNT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 117(c) of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(7) Veterans Health Administration, Medical Community 
        Care.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1105(a)(37) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
                    ``(G) Veterans Health Administration, Medical 
                Community Care.''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
to fiscal years beginning on and after October 1, 2016.

SEC. 275. ANNUAL TRANSFER OF AMOUNTS WITHIN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS TO PAY FOR HEALTH CARE FROM NON-DEPARTMENT HEALTH 
              CARE PROVIDERS.

    Section 106 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act 
of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Transfer of Amounts.--During a fiscal year, to accommodate 
any variances in demand for hospital care, medical services, or other 
health care through non-Department of Veterans Affairs health care 
providers, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may transfer amounts 
between the Medical Services appropriations account of the Department 
and the appropriations account of the Department for non-Department 
provider programs described in section 4003 of the Surface 
Transportation and Veterans Health Care Choice Improvement Act of 2015 
(Public Law 114-41; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note).''.

SEC. 276. AUTHORIZATION OF USE OF CERTAIN AMOUNTS APPROPRIATED TO THE 
              VETERANS CHOICE FUND FOR OTHER NON-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS CARE.

    (a) In General.--Section 802 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Except as provided by 
                        paragraph (3), any'' and inserting ``Any''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``by the Secretary of 
                        Veterans Affairs'' and all that follows through 
                        the period at the end and inserting ``by the 
                        Secretary of Veterans Affairs--
                    ``(A) to carry out section 101, including, subject 
                to paragraph (2), any administrative requirements of 
                such section; and
                    ``(B) to furnish health care to individuals under 
                chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, at non-
                Department facilities, including pursuant to authority 
                other than the authority under section 101.''.
                    (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the 
                following new paragraphs:
            ``(3) Treatment of amounts.--Amounts made available to the 
        Secretary under this subsection shall be used to supplement, 
        not supplant, amounts made available to the Secretary in 
        appropriations Acts for the purpose of furnishing health care 
        at non-Department facilities.
            ``(4) Non-department facilities defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term `non-Department facilities' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 1701 of title 38, United 
        States Code.''; and
            (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking ``only for the 
        program'' and all that follows through the period at the end 
        and inserting ``only for the purposes specified in subsection 
        (c)(1).''.
    (b) Emergency Designations.--
            (1) In general.--This section is designated as an emergency 
        requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-
        You-Go Act of 2010 (2 U.S.C. 933(g)).
            (2) Designation in senate.--In the Senate, this section is 
        designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 
        403(a) of S. Con. Res. 13 (111th Congress), the concurrent 
        resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2010.

SEC. 277. APPLICABILITY OF DIRECTIVE OF OFFICE OF FEDERAL CONTRACT 
              COMPLIANCE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding the treatment of certain laws 
under subsection (h) of section 1703B of title 38, United States Code, 
as added by section 272(a) of this Act, Directive 2014-01 of the Office 
of Federal Contract Compliance Programs of the Department of Labor 
(effective as of May 7, 2014) shall apply to any entity entering into 
an agreement under such section 1703B in the same manner as such 
directive applies to subcontractors under the TRICARE program for the 
duration of the moratorium provided under such directive.
    (b) Applicability Period.--The directive described in subsection 
(a), and the moratorium provided under such directive, shall not be 
altered or rescinded before May 7, 2019.
    (c) TRICARE Program Defined.--In this section, the term ``TRICARE 
program'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 of title 10, 
United States Code.

                 Subtitle I--Research on Toxic Exposure

SEC. 281. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Armed forces.--The term ``Armed Forces'' means the 
        United States Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Air Force, and Coast 
        Guard.
            (2) Descendant.--The term ``descendant'' means, with 
        respect to an individual, the biological child or grandchild of 
        that individual.
            (3) Toxic exposure.--The term ``toxic exposure'' means a 
        condition in which an individual inhaled or ingested an agent 
        determined to be hazardous to the health of the individual or 
        the agent came in contact with the skin or eyes of the 
        individual in a manner that could be hazardous to the health of 
        the individual.
            (4) Veteran.--The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 101 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 282. NATIONAL ACADEMY OF MEDICINE ASSESSMENT ON RESEARCH RELATING 
              TO THE DESCENDANTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH TOXIC EXPOSURE.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Agreement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National Academy 
        of Medicine under which the National Academy of Medicine 
        conducts an assessment on scientific research relating to the 
        descendants of individuals with toxic exposure.
            (2) Alternate organization.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary is unable within 
                the period prescribed in paragraph (1) to enter into an 
                agreement described in such paragraph with the National 
                Academy of Medicine on terms acceptable to the 
                Secretary, the Secretary shall seek to enter into such 
                an agreement with another appropriate organization 
                that--
                            (i) is not part of the Federal Government;
                            (ii) operates as a not-for-profit entity; 
                        and
                            (iii) has expertise and objectivity 
                        comparable to that of the National Academy of 
                        Medicine.
                    (B) Treatment.--If the Secretary enters into an 
                agreement with another organization as described in 
                subparagraph (A), any reference in this section to the 
                National Academy of Medicine shall be treated as a 
                reference to the other organization.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment conducted pursuant to the agreement 
entered into under subsection (a) shall include the following:
            (1) A scientific review of the scientific literature 
        regarding toxicological and epidemiological research on 
        descendants of individuals with toxic exposure.
            (2) An assessment of areas requiring further scientific 
        study relating to the descendants of veterans with toxic 
        exposure.
            (3) An assessment of the scope and methodology required to 
        conduct adequate scientific research relating to the 
        descendants of individuals with toxic exposure, including--
                    (A) the types of individuals to be studied, 
                including veterans with toxic exposure and the 
                descendants of those veterans;
                    (B) the number of veterans and descendants 
                described in subparagraph (A) to be studied;
                    (C) the potential alternatives for participation in 
                such a study, including whether it would be necessary 
                for participants to travel in order to participate;
                    (D) the approximate amount of time and resources 
                needed to prepare and conduct the research; and
                    (E) the appropriate Federal agencies to participate 
                in the research, including the Department of Defense 
                and the Department of Veterans Affairs.
            (4) The establishment of categories, including definitions 
        for each such category, to be used in assessing the evidence 
        that a particular health condition is related to toxic 
        exposure, such as--
                    (A) sufficient evidence of a causal relationship;
                    (B) sufficient evidence of an association;
                    (C) limited or suggestive evidence of an 
                association;
                    (D) inadequate or insufficient evidence to 
                determine whether an association exists; and
                    (E) limited or suggestive evidence of no 
                association.
            (5) An analysis of--
                    (A) the feasibility of conducting scientific 
                research to address the areas that require further 
                study as described under paragraph (2);
                    (B) the value and relevance of the information that 
                could result from such scientific research; and
                    (C) for purposes of conducting further research, 
                the feasibility and advisability of accessing 
                additional information held by a Federal agency that 
                may be sensitive.
            (6) An identification of a research entity or entities 
        with--
                    (A) expertise in conducting research on health 
                conditions of descendants of individuals with toxic 
                exposure; and
                    (B) an ability to conduct research on those health 
                conditions to address areas requiring further 
                scientific study as described under paragraph (2).
    (c) Report.--The agreement entered into under subsection (a) shall 
require the National Academy of Medicine to submit, not later than two 
years after entering into such agreement, to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives--
            (1) the results of the assessment conducted pursuant to 
        such agreement, including such recommendations as the National 
        Academy of Medicine considers appropriate regarding the scope 
        and methodology required to conduct adequate scientific 
        research relating to the descendants of veterans with toxic 
        exposure; and
            (2) a determination regarding whether the results of such 
        assessment indicate that it is feasible to conduct further 
        research regarding health conditions of descendants of veterans 
        with toxic exposure, including an explanation of the basis for 
        the determination.
    (d) Certification.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after receiving the 
        results of the assessment and determination under subsection 
        (c), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the House of Representatives a certification of the 
        understanding of the Secretary, based on such results and 
        determination, regarding the feasibility of conducting further 
        research regarding health conditions of descendants of veterans 
        with toxic exposure that is expressed by such results and 
        determination.
            (2) Basis for certification.--The certification submitted 
        under paragraph (1) shall include an explanation of the basis 
        for the certification.

SEC. 283. ADVISORY BOARD ON RESEARCH RELATING TO HEALTH CONDITIONS OF 
              DESCENDANTS OF VETERANS WITH TOXIC EXPOSURE WHILE SERVING 
              IN THE ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Establishment.--Unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
certifies under section 282(d) that the results of the assessment and 
determination under section 282(c) indicate that it is not feasible to 
conduct further research regarding health conditions of descendants of 
veterans with toxic exposure, not later than 180 days after receiving 
such results and determination, the Secretary shall establish an 
advisory board (in this section referred to as the ``Advisory Board'') 
to advise the Secretary in the selection of a research entity or 
entities under section 284, advise such entity or entities in 
conducting research under such section, and advise the Secretary with 
respect to the activities of such entity or entities under such 
section.
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Secretary, in consultation with the 
        National Academy of Medicine, the Director of the National 
        Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, and such other 
        heads of Federal agencies as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate--
                    (A) shall select not more than 13 voting members of 
                the Advisory Board, of whom--
                            (i) not less than two shall be members of 
                        organizations exempt from taxation under 
                        section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code 
                        of 1986;
                            (ii) not less than two shall be descendants 
                        of veterans with toxic exposure while serving 
                        as members of the Armed Forces; and
                            (iii) not less than seven shall be health 
                        professionals, scientists, or academics who are 
                        not employees of the Federal Government and 
                        have expertise in--
                                    (I) birth defects;
                                    (II) developmental disabilities;
                                    (III) epigenetics;
                                    (IV) public health;
                                    (V) the science of environmental 
                                exposure or environmental exposure 
                                assessment;
                                    (VI) the science of toxic 
                                substances; or
                                    (VII) medical and research ethics; 
                                and
                    (B) may select not more than two nonvoting members 
                who are employees of the Federal Government and who are 
                otherwise described in subparagraph (A)(iii).
            (2) Chair.--The Secretary shall select a Chair from among 
        the members of the Advisory Board selected under paragraph 
        (1)(A).
            (3) Terms.--
                    (A) In general.--Each member of the Advisory Board 
                shall serve a term of two or three years as determined 
                by the Secretary.
                    (B) Reappointment.--At the end of the term of a 
                member of the Advisory Board, the Secretary may 
                reselect the member for another term, except that no 
                member may serve more than four consecutive terms.
    (c) Duties.--The Advisory Board shall--
            (1) advise the Secretary in the selection of a research 
        entity or entities to conduct research under section 284 from 
        among those identified under section 282(b)(6);
            (2) advise such entity or entities and assess the 
        activities of such entity or entities in conducting such 
        research;
            (3) develop a research strategy for such entity or entities 
        based on, but not limited to, the results of the assessment 
        conducted under section 282;
            (4) advise the Secretary with respect to the activities of 
        such entity or entities under section 284;
            (5) submit recommendations to be included by such entity or 
        entities in the report under section 284(d)(2)(C); and
            (6) not less frequently than semiannually, meet with the 
        Secretary and representatives of such entity or entities on the 
        research conducted by such entity or entities under section 
        284.
    (d) Meetings.--The Advisory Board shall meet at the call of the 
Chair, but not less frequently than semiannually.
    (e) Compensation.--The members of the Advisory Board shall serve 
without compensation.
    (f) Expenses.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall determine 
the appropriate expenses of the Advisory Board.
    (g) Personnel.--
            (1) In general.--The Chair may, without regard to the civil 
        service laws and regulations, appoint an executive director of 
        the Advisory Board, who shall be a civilian employee of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, and such other personnel as may 
        be necessary to enable the Advisory Board to perform its 
        duties.
            (2) Approval.--The appointment of an executive director 
        under paragraph (1) shall be subject to approval by the 
        Advisory Board.
            (3) Compensation.--The Chair may fix the compensation of 
        the executive director and other personnel without regard to 
        the provisions of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 
        of title 5, United States Code, except that the rate of pay for 
        the executive director and other personnel may not exceed the 
        rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule under 
        section 5316 of such title.

SEC. 284. RESEARCH RELATING TO HEALTH CONDITIONS OF DESCENDANTS OF 
              VETERANS WITH TOXIC EXPOSURE WHILE SERVING IN THE ARMED 
              FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Unless the Secretary of Veterans Affairs certifies 
under section 282(d) that the results of the assessment and 
determination under section 282(c) indicate that it is not feasible to 
conduct further research regarding health conditions of descendants of 
veterans with toxic exposure, not later than one year after receiving 
such results and determination, the Secretary shall (in consultation 
with the advisory board established under section 283 (in this section 
referred to as the ``Advisory Board'')) enter into an agreement with 
one or more research entities identified under section 282(b)(6) 
(excluding an entity of the Department of Veterans Affairs) to conduct 
research on health conditions of descendants of veterans with toxic 
exposure while serving as members of the Armed Forces (in this section 
referred to as the ``research entity or entities'').
    (b) Research.--
            (1) In general.--To the extent included in the research 
        strategy developed by the Advisory Board under section 
        283(c)(3), the research entity or entities shall conduct 
        research on health conditions of descendants of veterans with 
        toxic exposure while serving as members of the Armed Forces.
            (2) Studies.--In conducting research under paragraph (1), 
        the research entity or entities may study any veteran, at the 
        election of the veteran, identified under section 282(b)(3)(A) 
        as a type of individual to be studied in order to conduct 
        adequate scientific research relating to the descendants of 
        veterans with toxic exposure.
            (3) Categorization.--In conducting research under paragraph 
        (1), the research entity or entities shall assess, using the 
        categories established under section 282(b)(4), the extent to 
        which a health condition of a descendant of a veteran is 
        related to the toxic exposure of the veteran while serving as a 
        member of the Armed Forces.
    (c) Availability of Records.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs, and the head of each Federal agency 
        identified under section 282(b)(3)(E) shall make available to 
        the research entity or entities records held by the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Armed 
        Forces, that Federal agency, or any other source under the 
        jurisdiction of any such Federal agency or the Armed Forces, as 
        appropriate, that the research entity or entities determine are 
        necessary to carry out this section.
            (2) Mechanism for access.--The Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs, the Secretary of Defense, and the head of each Federal 
        agency identified under section 282(b)(3)(E) shall jointly 
        establish a mechanism for access by the research entity or 
        entities to records made available under paragraph (1).
    (d) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after commencing 
        the conduct of research under this section, and not later than 
        September 30 each year thereafter, each research entity with 
        which the Secretary has entered into an agreement under 
        subsection (a) shall, in consultation with the Advisory Board, 
        submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
        functions of such entity under this section during the year 
        preceding the submittal of the report.
            (2) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) A summary of the research efforts that have 
                been completed during the year preceding the submittal 
                of the report and that are ongoing as of the date of 
                the submittal of the report.
                    (B) A description of any findings made during such 
                year in carrying out such research efforts.
                    (C) Recommendations for administrative or 
                legislative action made by the Advisory Board based on 
                such findings, which may include recommendations for 
                further research under this section.
            (3) Upon request.--Upon the request of any organization 
        exempt from taxation under section 501(c)(19) of the Internal 
        Revenue Code of 1986, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may 
        transmit to such organization a copy of a report received by 
        the Secretary under paragraph (1).

                 Subtitle J--Other Health Care Matters

SEC. 291. AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN MAJOR MEDICAL FACILITY PROJECTS OF 
              THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out 
the following major medical facility projects, with each project to be 
carried out in an amount not to exceed the amount specified for that 
project:
            (1) Seismic corrections to buildings, including 
        retrofitting and replacement of high-risk buildings, in San 
        Francisco, California, in an amount not to exceed $180,480,000.
            (2) Seismic corrections to facilities, including facilities 
        to support homeless veterans, at the medical center in West Los 
        Angeles, California, in an amount not to exceed $105,500,000.
            (3) Seismic corrections to the mental health and community 
        living center in Long Beach, California, in an amount not to 
        exceed $287,100,000.
            (4) Construction of an outpatient clinic, administrative 
        space, cemetery, and columbarium in Alameda, California, in an 
        amount not to exceed $87,332,000.
            (5) Realignment of medical facilities in Livermore, 
        California, in an amount not to exceed $194,430,000.
            (6) Construction of a medical center in Louisville, 
        Kentucky, in an amount not to exceed $150,000,000.
            (7) Construction of a replacement community living center 
        in Perry Point, Maryland, in an amount not to exceed 
        $92,700,000.
            (8) Seismic corrections and other renovations to several 
        buildings and construction of a specialty care building in 
        American Lake, Washington, in an amount not to exceed 
        $16,260,000.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations for Construction.--There is 
authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
fiscal year 2016 or the year in which funds are appropriated for the 
Construction, Major Projects, account, $1,113,802,000 for the projects 
authorized in subsection (a).
    (c) Limitation.--The projects authorized in subsection (a) may only 
be carried out using--
            (1) funds appropriated for fiscal year 2016 pursuant to the 
        authorization of appropriations in subsection (b);
            (2) funds available for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
        fiscal year before fiscal year 2016 that remain available for 
        obligation;
            (3) funds available for Construction, Major Projects, for a 
        fiscal year after fiscal year 2016 that remain available for 
        obligation;
            (4) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, 
        for fiscal year 2016 for a category of activity not specific to 
        a project;
            (5) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, 
        for a fiscal year before fiscal year 2016 for a category of 
        activity not specific to a project; and
            (6) funds appropriated for Construction, Major Projects, 
        for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2016 for a category of 
        activity not specific to a project.

SEC. 292. IDENTIFICATION AND TRACKING OF BIOLOGICAL IMPLANTS USED IN 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, as amended by section 248(a), is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330D. Identification and tracking of biological implants
    ``(a) Standard Identification System for Biological Implants.--(1) 
The Secretary shall adopt the unique device identification system 
developed for medical devices by the Food and Drug Administration under 
section 519(f) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
360i(f)), or implement a comparable standard identification system, for 
use in identifying biological implants intended for use in medical 
procedures conducted in medical facilities of the Department.
    ``(2) In adopting or implementing a standard identification system 
for biological implants under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall permit 
a vendor to use any of the accredited entities identified by the Food 
and Drug Administration as an issuing agency pursuant to section 
830.100 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
regulation.
    ``(b) Biological Implant Tracking System.--(1) The Secretary shall 
implement a system for tracking the biological implants described in 
subsection (a) from human donor or animal source to implantation.
    ``(2) The tracking system implemented under paragraph (1) shall be 
compatible with the identification system adopted or implemented under 
subsection (a).
    ``(3) The Secretary shall implement inventory controls compatible 
with the tracking system implemented under paragraph (1) so that all 
patients who have received, in a medical facility of the Department, a 
biological implant subject to a recall can be notified of the recall 
if, based on the evaluation by appropriate medical personnel of the 
Department of the risks and benefits, the Secretary determines such 
notification is appropriate.
    ``(c) Consistency With Food and Drug Administration Regulations.--
To the extent that a conflict arises between this section and a 
provision of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et 
seq.) or section 351 or 361 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
262 and 264) (including any regulations issued under such provisions), 
the provision of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act or Public 
Health Service Act (including any regulations issued under such 
provisions) shall apply.
    ``(d) Biological Implant Defined.--In this section, the term 
`biological implant' means any human cell, tissue, or cellular or 
tissue-based product or animal product--
            ``(1) under the meaning given the term `human cells, 
        tissues, or cellular or tissue-based products' in section 
        1271.3 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        successor regulation; or
            ``(2) that is regulated as a device under section 201(h) of 
        the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321(h)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 of such title, as amended by section 248(b), is further 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7330C the 
following new item:

``7330D. Identification and tracking of biological implants.''.
    (c) Implementation Deadlines.--
            (1) Standard identification system.--The Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall adopt or implement the standard 
        identification system for biological implants required by 
        subsection (a) of section 7330D of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by subsection (a), with respect to biological 
        implants described in--
                    (A) subsection (d)(1) of such section, by not later 
                than the date that is 180 days after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) subsection (d)(2) of such section, in 
                compliance with the compliance dates established by the 
                Food and Drug Administration under section 519(f) of 
                the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
                360i(f)).
            (2) Tracking system.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall implement the biological implant tracking system required 
        by section 7330D(b) of title 38, United States Code, as added 
        by subsection (a), by not later than the date that is 180 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Reporting Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--If the biological implant tracking system 
        required by section 7330D(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
        as added by subsection (a), is not operational by the date that 
        is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives a report explaining why 
        the system is not operational for each month until such time as 
        the system is operational.
            (2) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include a description of the following:
                    (A) Each impediment to the implementation of the 
                system described in such paragraph.
                    (B) Steps being taken to remediate each such 
                impediment.
                    (C) Target dates for a solution to each such 
                impediment.

SEC. 293. PROCUREMENT OF BIOLOGICAL IMPLANTS USED IN DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITIES.

    (a) Procurement.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 81 of title 38, 
        United States Code, as amended by section 132(a), is further 
        amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 8130. Procurement of biological implants
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary may procure biological 
implants of human origin only from vendors that meet the following 
conditions:
            ``(A) The vendor uses the standard identification system 
        adopted or implemented by the Secretary under section 7330D(a) 
        of this title and has safeguards to ensure that a distinct 
        identifier has been in place at each step of distribution of 
        each biological implant from its donor.
            ``(B) The vendor is registered as required by the Food and 
        Drug Administration under subpart B of part 1271 of title 21, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, and 
        in the case of a vendor that uses a tissue distribution 
        intermediary or a tissue processor, the vendor provides 
        assurances that the tissue distribution intermediary or tissue 
        processor is registered as required by the Food and Drug 
        Administration.
            ``(C) The vendor ensures that donor eligibility 
        determinations and such other records as the Secretary may 
        require accompany each biological implant at all times, 
        regardless of the country of origin of the donor of the 
        biological material.
            ``(D) The vendor agrees to cooperate with all biological 
        implant recalls conducted on the initiative of the vendor, on 
        the initiative of the original product manufacturer used by the 
        vendor, by the request of the Food and Drug Administration, or 
        by a statutory order of the Food and Drug Administration.
            ``(E) The vendor agrees to notify the Secretary of any 
        adverse event or reaction report it provides to the Food and 
        Drug Administration, as required by sections 1271.3 and 
        1271.350 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or any 
        successor regulation, or any warning letter from the Food and 
        Drug Administration issued to the vendor or a tissue processor 
        or tissue distribution intermediary used by the vendor by not 
        later than 60 days after the vendor receives such report or 
        warning letter.
            ``(F) The vendor agrees to retain all records associated 
        with the procurement of a biological implant by the Department 
        for at least 10 years after the date of the procurement of the 
        biological implant.
            ``(G) The vendor provides assurances that the biological 
        implants provided by the vendor are acquired only from tissue 
        processors that maintain active accreditation with the American 
        Association of Tissue Banks or a similar national accreditation 
        specific to biological implants.
    ``(2) The Secretary may procure biological implants of nonhuman 
origin only from vendors that meet the following conditions:
            ``(A) The vendor uses the standard identification system 
        adopted or implemented by the Secretary under section 7330D(a) 
        of this title.
            ``(B) The vendor is registered as an establishment as 
        required by the Food and Drug Administration under sections 
        807.20 and 807.40 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, or 
        any successor regulation (or is not required to register 
        pursuant to section 807.65(a) of such title, or any successor 
        regulation), and in the case of a vendor that is not the 
        original product manufacturer of such implants, the vendor 
        provides assurances that the original product manufacturer is 
        registered as required by the Food and Drug Administration (or 
        is not required to register).
            ``(C) The vendor agrees to cooperate with all biological 
        implant recalls conducted on the initiative of the vendor, on 
        the initiative of the original product manufacturer used by the 
        vendor, by the request of the Food and Drug Administration, or 
        by a statutory order of the Food and Drug Administration.
            ``(D) The vendor agrees to notify the Secretary of any 
        adverse event report it provides to the Food and Drug 
        Administration as required under part 803 of title 21, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation, or any 
        warning letter from the Food and Drug Administration issued to 
        the vendor or the original product manufacturer used by the 
        vendor by not later than 60 days after the vendor receives such 
        report or warning letter.
            ``(E) The vendor agrees to retain all records associated 
        with the procurement of a biological implant by the Department 
        for at least 10 years after the date of the procurement of the 
        biological implant.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary shall procure biological implants under the 
Federal Supply Schedules of the General Services Administration unless 
such implants are not available under such Schedules.
    ``(B) With respect to biological implants listed on the Federal 
Supply Schedules, the Secretary shall accommodate reasonable vendor 
requests to undertake outreach efforts to educate medical professionals 
of the Department about the use and efficacy of such biological 
implants.
    ``(C) In the case of biological implants that are unavailable for 
procurement under the Federal Supply Schedules, the Secretary shall 
procure such implants using competitive procedures in accordance with 
applicable law and the Federal Acquisition Regulation, including 
through the use of a national contract.
    ``(4) In procuring biological implants under this section, the 
Secretary shall permit a vendor to use any of the accredited entities 
identified by the Food and Drug Administration as an issuing agency 
pursuant to section 830.100 of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, 
or any successor regulation.
    ``(5) Section 8123 of this title shall not apply to the procurement 
of biological implants.
    ``(b) Penalties.--In addition to any applicable penalty under any 
other provision of law, any procurement employee of the Department who 
is found responsible for a biological implant procurement transaction 
with intent to avoid or with reckless disregard of the requirements of 
this section shall be ineligible to hold a certificate of appointment 
as a contracting officer or to serve as the representative of an 
ordering officer, contracting officer, or purchase card holder.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `biological implant' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 7330D(d) of this title.
            ``(2) The term `distinct identifier' means a distinct 
        identification code that--
                    ``(A) relates a biological implant to the human 
                donor of the implant and to all records pertaining to 
                the implant;
                    ``(B) includes information designed to facilitate 
                effective tracking, using the distinct identification 
                code, from the donor to the recipient and from the 
                recipient to the donor; and
                    ``(C) satisfies the requirements of section 
                1271.290(c) of title 21, Code of Federal Regulations, 
                or any successor regulation.
            ``(3) The term `tissue distribution intermediary' means an 
        agency that acquires and stores human tissue for further 
        distribution and performs no other tissue banking functions.
            ``(4) The term `tissue processor' means an entity 
        processing human tissue for use in biological implants, 
        including activities performed on tissue other than donor 
        screening, donor testing, tissue recovery and collection 
        functions, storage, or distribution.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 81 of such title, as amended by section 
        132(c), is further amended by inserting after the item relating 
        to section 8129 the following new item:

``8130. Procurement of biological implants.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Section 8130 of title 38, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the date that is 180 
days after the date on which the tracking system required under section 
7330D(b) of such title, as added by section 292(a), is implemented.
    (c) Special Rule for Cryopreserved Products.--During the three-year 
period beginning on the effective date of section 8130 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), biological implants 
produced and labeled before that effective date may be procured by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs without relabeling under the standard 
identification system adopted or implemented under section 7330D of 
such title, as added by section 292(a).

SEC. 294. EXPANSION OF RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ON AND DELIVERY OF 
              COMPLEMENTARY AND INTEGRATIVE HEALTH TO VETERANS.

    (a) Development of Plan To Expand Research, Education, and 
Delivery.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop a plan to 
expand materially and substantially the scope of the effectiveness of 
research and education on, and delivery and integration of, 
complementary and integrative health services into the health care 
services provided to veterans.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall provide 
for the following:
            (1) Research on the following:
                    (A) The effectiveness of various complementary and 
                integrative health services, including the 
                effectiveness of such services integrated with clinical 
                services.
                    (B) Approaches to integrating complementary and 
                integrative health services into other health care 
                services provided by the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs.
            (2) Education and training for health care professionals of 
        the Department on the following:
                    (A) complementary and integrative health services 
                selected by the Secretary for purposes of the plan.
                    (B) Appropriate uses of such services.
                    (C) Integration of such services into the delivery 
                of health care to veterans.
            (3) Research, education, and clinical activities on 
        complementary and integrative health at centers of innovation 
        at medical centers of the Department.
            (4) Identification or development of metrics and outcome 
        measures to evaluate the effectiveness of the provision and 
        integration of complementary and integrative health services 
        into the delivery of health care to veterans.
            (5) Integration and delivery of complementary and 
        integrative health services with other health care services 
        provided by the Department.
    (c) Consultation.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
        Secretary shall consult with the following:
                    (A) The Director of the National Center for 
                Complementary and Integrative Health of the National 
                Institutes of Health.
                    (B) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
                    (C) Institutions of higher education, private 
                research institutes, and individual researchers with 
                extensive experience in complementary and integrative 
                health and the integration of complementary and 
                integrative health practices into the delivery of 
                health care.
                    (D) Nationally recognized providers of 
                complementary and integrative health.
                    (E) Such other officials, entities, and individuals 
                with expertise on complementary and integrative health 
                as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) Scope of consultation.--The Secretary shall undertake 
        consultation under paragraph (1) in carrying out subsection (a) 
        with respect to the following:
                    (A) To develop the plan.
                    (B) To identify specific complementary and 
                integrative health practices that, on the basis of 
                research findings or promising clinical interventions, 
                are appropriate to include as services to veterans.
                    (C) To identify barriers to the effective provision 
                and integration of complementary and integrative health 
                services into the delivery of health care to veterans, 
                and to identify mechanisms for overcoming such 
                barriers.
    (d) Complementary and Integrative Health Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``complementary and integrative health'' shall have the 
meaning given that term in section 211(g).

SEC. 295. PILOT PROGRAM ON INTEGRATION OF COMPLEMENTARY AND INTEGRATIVE 
              HEALTH WITHIN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL 
              CENTERS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
completion of the development of the plan under section 294, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall--
            (1) carry out, through the Office of Patient Centered Care 
        and Cultural Transformation of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, a pilot program to assess the feasibility and 
        advisability of integrating the delivery of complementary and 
        integrative health services selected by the Secretary with 
        other health care services provided by the Department for 
        veterans with mental health conditions, chronic pain 
        conditions, other chronic conditions, and such other conditions 
        as the Secretary determines appropriate; and
            (2) in developing the pilot program--
                    (A) use the plan developed under section 294;
                    (B) identify and, to the extent practicable, 
                resolve barriers to the provision of complementary and 
                integrative health services selected by the Secretary 
                and the integration of those services with other health 
                care services provided by the Department;
                    (C) identify means of improving coordination 
                between Federal, State, local, and community providers 
                of health care in the provision of pain management and 
                related health care services to veterans;
                    (D) identify means of enhancing outreach, and 
                coordination of outreach, by and among providers of 
                health care described in subparagraph (C) regarding the 
                pain management and related health care services 
                available to veterans;
                    (E) identify means of using wellness-based programs 
                offered by providers of health care described in 
                subparagraph (C) to complement the provision by the 
                Department of pain management and related health care 
                services to veterans; and
                    (F) assess whether wellness-based programs 
                described in subparagraph (E)--
                            (i) are effective in enhancing the quality 
                        of life and well-being of veterans;
                            (ii) are effective in increasing the 
                        adherence of veterans to the primary pain 
                        management and related health care services 
                        provided such veterans by the Department;
                            (iii) have an effect on the sense of well-
                        being of veterans who receive primary pain 
                        management and related health care services 
                        from the Department; and
                            (iv) are effective in encouraging veterans 
                        receiving health care from the Department to 
                        adopt a more healthy lifestyle.
    (b) Duration of Pilot Program.--The Secretary shall carry out the 
pilot program during the three-year period beginning on the date that 
is 180 days after the completion of the development of the plan under 
section 294.
    (c) Locations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
        program at not fewer than 15 medical centers of the Department.
            (2) Polytrauma centers.--Not fewer than two of the medical 
        centers designated under paragraph (1) shall be located at 
        polytrauma rehabilitation centers of the Department.
            (3) Medical centers with prescription rate of opioids that 
        conflicts with care standards.--
                    (A) In general.--In selecting medical centers under 
                paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to 
                medical centers of the Department at which there is a 
                prescription rate of opioids that conflicts with or is 
                otherwise inconsistent with the standards of 
                appropriate and safe care.
                    (B) Prescription rate defined.--In this paragraph, 
                the term ``prescription rate'' means, with respect to a 
                medical center of the Department, each of the 
                following:
                            (i) The number of patients treated with 
                        opioids at the medical center divided by the 
                        total number of pharmacy users at the medical 
                        center.
                            (ii) The average number of morphine 
                        equivalents per day prescribed at the medical 
                        center to patients being treated with opioids.
                            (iii) Of the patients being treated with 
                        opioids at the medical center, the average 
                        number of prescriptions of opioids per patient.
            (4) Selection of locations.--In carrying out the pilot 
        program, the Secretary shall select locations that include the 
        following areas:
                    (A) Rural areas.
                    (B) Areas that are not in close proximity to an 
                active duty military installation.
                    (C) Areas representing different geographic 
                locations, such as census tracts established by the 
                Bureau of the Census.
    (d) Provision of Services.--Under the pilot program, the Secretary 
shall provide covered services to covered veterans by integrating 
complementary and integrative health services with other services 
provided by the Department at the medical centers designated under 
subsection (c)(1).
    (e) Covered Veterans.--For purposes of the pilot program, a covered 
veteran is any veteran who--
            (1) has a mental health condition diagnosed by a clinician 
        of the Department;
            (2) experiences chronic pain;
            (3) has a chronic condition being treated by a clinician of 
        the Department; or
            (4) is not described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) and 
        requests to participate in the pilot program or is referred by 
        a clinician of the Department who is treating the veteran.
    (f) Covered Services.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of the pilot program, covered 
        services are services consisting of complementary and 
        integrative health services as selected by the Secretary.
            (2) Administration of services.--Covered services shall be 
        administered under the pilot program as follows:
                    (A) Covered services shall be administered by 
                professionals or other instructors with appropriate 
                training and expertise in complementary and integrative 
                health services who are employees of the Department or 
                with whom the Department enters into an agreement to 
                provide such services.
                    (B) Covered services shall be included as part of 
                the Patient Aligned Care Teams initiative of the Office 
                of Patient Care Services, Primary Care Program Office, 
                in coordination with the Office of Patient Centered 
                Care and Cultural Transformation.
                    (C) Covered services shall be made available to--
                            (i) covered veterans who have received 
                        conventional treatments from the Department for 
                        the conditions for which the covered veteran 
                        seeks complementary and integrative health 
                        services under the pilot program; and
                            (ii) covered veterans who have not received 
                        conventional treatments from the Department for 
                        such conditions.
    (g) Voluntary Participation.--The participation of a veteran in the 
pilot program shall be at the election of the veteran and in 
consultation with a clinician of the Department.
    (h) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 months after the date of 
        the commencement of the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program.
            (2) Elements.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) The findings and conclusions of the Secretary 
                with respect to the pilot program, including with 
                respect to--
                            (i) the use and efficacy of the 
                        complementary and integrative health services 
                        established under the pilot program;
                            (ii) the outreach conducted by the 
                        Secretary to inform veterans and community 
                        organizations about the pilot program; and
                            (iii) an assessment of the benefit of the 
                        pilot program to covered veterans in mental 
                        health diagnoses, pain management, and 
                        treatment of chronic illness.
                    (B) A description of barriers identified under 
                subsection (a)(2)(B) that were not resolved.
                    (C) Such recommendations for the continuation or 
                expansion of the pilot program as the Secretary 
                considers appropriate.
    (i) Complementary and Integrative Health Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``complementary and integrative health'' shall have the 
meaning given that term in section 211(g).

SEC. 296. REPORT ON PUBLIC ACCESS TO RESEARCH BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than each of 180 days and one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a report on increasing public access to scientific 
publications and digital data from research funded by the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Elements.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An identification of the location or locations in which 
        the public will be able to access the results of research 
        funded by the Department, whether on an Internet website of the 
        Department or through another source.
            (2) A description of the progress made by the Department in 
        meeting public access requirements set forth in the notice 
        entitled ``Policy and Implementation Plan for Public Access to 
        Scientific Publications and Digital Data from Research Funded 
        by the Department of Veterans Affairs'' (80 Fed. Reg. 60751), 
        including the following:
                    (A) Compliance of Department investigators with 
                requirements relating to ensuring that research funded 
                by the Department is accessible by the public.
                    (B) Ensuring data management plans of the 
                Department include provisions for long-term 
                preservation of the scientific data resulting from 
                research funded by the Department.
            (3) An explanation of the factors used to evaluate the 
        merit of data management plans of research funded by the 
        Veterans Health Administration.
            (4) An explanation of the process of the Department in 
        effect that enables stakeholders to petition a change to the 
        embargo period for a specific field and the factors considered 
        during such process.

             TITLE III--DISABILITY COMPENSATION AND PENSION

SEC. 301. EXPEDITED PAYMENT OF SURVIVOR'S BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--Section 5101(a)(1) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``A specific'' and inserting ``(A) Except 
        as provided in subparagraph (B), a specific''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B)(i) The Secretary may pay benefits under chapters 13 and 15 
and sections 2302, 2307, and 5121 of this title to a survivor of a 
veteran who has not filed a formal claim if the Secretary determines 
that the record contains sufficient evidence to establish the 
entitlement of the survivor to such benefits.
    ``(ii) For purposes of this subparagraph and section 5110 of this 
title, the earlier of the following dates shall be treated as the date 
of the receipt of the survivor's application for benefits described in 
clause (i):
            ``(I) The date on which the survivor of a veteran (or the 
        representative of such a survivor) notifies the Secretary of 
        the death of the veteran through a death certificate or other 
        relevant evidence that establishes entitlement to survivors 
        benefits identified in clause (i).
            ``(II) The head of any other department or agency of the 
        Federal Government notifies the Secretary of the death of the 
        veteran.
    ``(iii) In notifying the Secretary of the death of a veteran as 
described in clause (ii)(I), the survivor (or the representative of 
such a survivor) may submit to the Secretary additional documents 
relating to such death without being required to file a formal 
claim.''.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on benefits paid pursuant to covered 
        claims.
            (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include 
        the following:
                    (A) The number of covered claims adjudicated during 
                the one-year period preceding the date of the report, 
                disaggregated by the following:
                            (i) Claims in which the claimant claimed 
                        entitlement to benefits under chapters 13 or 15 
                        or sections 2302, 2307, or 5121 of title 38, 
                        United States Code, on the basis of the 
                        claimant's status as the spouse of a deceased 
                        veteran.
                            (ii) Claims in which the claimant claimed 
                        entitlement to such benefits on the basis of 
                        the claimant's status as the child of a 
                        deceased veteran.
                            (iii) Claims in which the claimant claimed 
                        entitlement to such benefits on the basis of 
                        the claimant's status as the parent of a 
                        deceased veteran.
                    (B) The number of covered claims that were 
                adjudicated during such period and for which such 
                benefits were not awarded, disaggregated by clauses (i) 
                through (iii) of subparagraph (A).
                    (C) A comparison of the accuracy and timeliness of 
                covered claims adjudicated during such period with 
                noncovered claims filed by survivors of a veteran.
                    (D) The findings of the Secretary with respect to 
                adjudicating covered claims.
                    (E) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have 
                for legislative or administrative action to improve the 
                adjudication of claims submitted to the Secretary for 
                benefits under chapters 13 and 15 and sections 2302, 
                2307, and 5121 of title 38, United States Code.
            (3) Covered claim defined.--In this subsection, the term 
        ``covered claim'' means a claim covered by section 
        5101(a)(1)(B) of title 38, United States Code, as added by 
        subsection (a).
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to claims for benefits based on a death occurring on 
or after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 302. INCREASE IN SPECIAL PENSION FOR MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1562(a) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by striking ``$1,000'' and inserting ``$3,000''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
        take effect on the date that is--
                    (A) except as provided in subparagraph (B), one 
                year after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) in the case that the date that is one year 
                after the date of the enactment of this Act is not the 
                first day of a month, the first day of the first month 
                beginning after the date that is one year after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Delay of annual cost of living adjustment.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall not make an 
                increase pursuant to section 1562(e) of such title 
                effective December 1, 2016, if the amendment made by 
                subsection (a) takes effect before such date.
                    (B) Resumption.--In the case that the Secretary, 
                pursuant to subparagraph (A), does not make an increase 
                pursuant to section 1562(e) of such title effective 
                December 1, 2016, the Secretary shall resume making 
                increases pursuant to such section with the first such 
                increase effective December 1, 2017.

SEC. 303. BOARD OF VETERANS' APPEALS VIDEO HEARINGS.

    Section 7107 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
        follows:
    ``(1)(A)(i) Upon request for a hearing, the Board shall determine, 
for purposes of scheduling the hearing for the earliest possible date, 
whether a hearing before the Board will be held at its principal 
location or at a facility of the Department or other appropriate 
Federal facility located within the area served by a regional office of 
the Department.
    ``(ii) The Board shall also determine whether to provide a hearing 
through the use of the facilities and equipment described in subsection 
(e)(1) or by the appellant personally appearing before a Board member 
or panel.
    ``(B)(i) The Board shall notify the appellant of the determinations 
of the location and type of hearing made under subparagraph (A).
    ``(ii) Upon notification, the appellant may request a different 
location or type of hearing as described in such subparagraph.
    ``(iii) If so requested, the Board shall grant such request and 
ensure that the hearing is scheduled at the earliest possible date 
without any undue delay or other prejudice to the appellant.''; and
            (2) in subsection (e), by amending paragraph (2) to read as 
        follows:
    ``(2) Any hearing provided through the use of the facilities and 
equipment described in paragraph (1) shall be conducted in the same 
manner as, and shall be considered the equivalent of, a personal 
hearing.''.

SEC. 304. IMPROVEMENTS TO AUTHORITY FOR PERFORMANCE OF MEDICAL 
              DISABILITIES EXAMINATIONS BY CONTRACT PHYSICIANS.

    (a) Extension of Temporary Authority.--Subsection (c) of section 
704 of the Veterans Benefits Act of 2003 (38 U.S.C. 5101 note) is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2017''.
    (b) Licensure of Contract Physicians.--
            (1) Temporary authority.--Such section 704 is further 
        amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection 
                (e); and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (c) the following 
                new subsection (d):
    ``(d) Licensure of Contract Physicians.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any law regarding the 
        licensure of physicians, a physician described in paragraph (2) 
        may conduct an examination pursuant to a contract entered into 
        under subsection (b) at any location in any State, the District 
        of Columbia, or a Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the 
        United States, so long as the examination is within the scope 
        of the authorized duties under such contract.
            ``(2) Physician described.--A physician described in this 
        paragraph is a physician who--
                    ``(A) has a current unrestricted license to 
                practice the health care profession of the physician;
                    ``(B) is not barred from practicing such health 
                care profession in any State, the District of Columbia, 
                or a Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the 
                United States; and
                    ``(C) is performing authorized duties for the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to a contract 
                entered into under subsection (b).''.
            (2) Pilot program.--Section 504 of the Veterans' Benefits 
        Improvement Act of 1996 (38 U.S.C. 5101 note) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as 
                subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subsection (b) the following 
                new subsection (c):
    ``(c) Licensure of Contract Physicians.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any law regarding the 
        licensure of physicians, a physician described in paragraph (2) 
        may conduct an examination pursuant to a contract entered into 
        under subsection (a) at any location in any State, the District 
        of Columbia, or a Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the 
        United States, so long as the examination is within the scope 
        of the authorized duties under such contract.
            ``(2) Physician described.--A physician described in this 
        paragraph is a physician who--
                    ``(A) has a current unrestricted license to 
                practice the health care profession of the physician;
                    ``(B) is not barred from practicing such health 
                care profession in any State, the District of Columbia, 
                or a Commonwealth, territory, or possession of the 
                United States; and
                    ``(C) is performing authorized duties for the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs pursuant to a contract 
                entered into under subsection (a).''.

SEC. 305. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PILOT PROGRAM ON FULLY 
              DEVELOPED APPEALS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out 
a pilot program to provide the option of an alternative appeals process 
that shall more quickly determine such appeals in accordance with this 
section.
    (b) Election.--
            (1) Filing.--In accordance with paragraph (2), a claimant 
        may elect to file a fully developed appeal under the pilot 
        program by filing with the Secretary all of the following:
                    (A) The notice of disagreement under chapter 71 of 
                title 38, United States Code, along with the written 
                election of the claimant to have the appeal determined 
                under the pilot program.
                    (B) All evidence that the claimant believes is 
                needed for the appeal as of the date of the filing.
                    (C) A statement of the argument in support of the 
                claim, if any.
            (2) Timing.--A claimant shall make an election under 
        paragraph (1) as part of the notice of disagreement filed by 
        the claimant in accordance with paragraph (1)(A).
            (3) Triage.--The Secretary shall, upon expiration of the 
        period specified in subsection (c)(3)(C), ensure that an 
        assessment is undertaken of whether an appeal filed under 
        paragraph (1) of this subsection satisfies the requirements for 
        appeal under the pilot program and provide appropriate 
        notification to the claimant of the results of that assessment.
            (4) Reversion.--
                    (A) Elected reversion.--At any time, a claimant who 
                makes an election under paragraph (1) may elect to 
                revert to the standard appeals process. Such a 
                reversion shall be final.
                    (B) Automatic reversion.--A claimant described in 
                subparagraph (A), or a claimant who makes an election 
                under paragraph (1) but is later determined to be 
                ineligible for the pilot program under subsection (a), 
                shall revert to the standard appeals process without 
                any penalty to the claimant other than the loss of the 
                docket number associated with the fully developed 
                appeal.
            (5) Outreach.--In providing claimants with notices of the 
        determination of a claim during the period in which the pilot 
        program under subsection (a) is carried out, the Secretary 
        shall conduct outreach as follows:
                    (A) The Secretary shall provide to the claimant 
                (and to the representative of record of the claimant, 
                if any) information regarding--
                            (i) the pilot program, including the 
                        advantages and disadvantages of the program;
                            (ii) how to make an election under 
                        paragraph (1);
                            (iii) the limitation on the use of new 
                        evidence described in paragraph (3) of 
                        subsection (c) and the development of 
                        information under paragraph (4) of such 
                        subsection;
                            (iv) the ability of the claimant to seek 
                        advice and education regarding such process 
                        from veterans service organizations, attorneys, 
                        and claims agents recognized under chapter 59 
                        of title 38, United States Code; and
                            (v) the circumstances under which the 
                        appeal will automatically revert to the 
                        standard appeals process, including by making a 
                        request for a hearing.
                    (B) The Secretary shall collaborate, partner with, 
                and give weight to the advice of the three veterans 
                service organizations with the most members and such 
                other stakeholders as the Secretary considers 
                appropriate to publish on the Internet website of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs an online tutorial 
                explaining the advantages and disadvantages of the 
                pilot program.
    (c) Treatment by Department and Board.--
            (1) Process.--Upon the election of a claimant to file a 
        fully developed appeal pursuant to subsection (b)(1), the 
        Secretary shall--
                    (A) not provide the claimant with a statement of 
                the case nor require the claimant to file a substantive 
                appeal; and
                    (B) transfer jurisdiction over the fully developed 
                appeal directly to the Board of Veterans' Appeals.
            (2) Docket.--
                    (A) In general.--The Board of Veterans' Appeals 
                shall--
                            (i) maintain fully developed appeals on a 
                        separate docket than standard appeals;
                            (ii) decide fully developed appeals in the 
                        order that the fully developed appeals are 
                        received on the fully developed appeal docket;
                            (iii) except as provided by subparagraph 
                        (B), decide not more than one fully developed 
                        appeal for each four standard appeals decided; 
                        and
                            (iv) to the extent practicable, decide each 
                        fully developed appeal by the date that is one 
                        year following the date on which the claimant 
                        files the notice of disagreement.
                    (B) Adjustment.--Beginning one year after the date 
                on which the pilot program commences, the Board may 
                adjust the number of standard appeals decided for each 
                fully developed appeal under subparagraph (A)(iii) if 
                the Board determines that such adjustment is fair for 
                both standard appeals and fully developed appeals.
            (3) Limitation on use of new evidence.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided by 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C)--
                            (i) a claimant may not submit or identify 
                        to the Board of Veterans' Appeals any new 
                        evidence relating to a fully developed appeal 
                        after filing such appeal unless the claimant 
                        reverts to the standard appeals process 
                        pursuant to subsection (b)(4); and
                            (ii) if a claimant submits or identifies 
                        any such new evidence, such submission or 
                        identification shall be deemed to be an 
                        election to make such a reversion pursuant to 
                        subsection (b)(4).
                    (B) Evidence gathered by board.--Subparagraph (A) 
                shall not apply to evidence developed pursuant to 
                paragraphs (4) and (5). The Board shall consider such 
                evidence in the first instance without consideration by 
                the Veterans Benefits Administration.
                    (C) Representative of record.--The representative 
                of record of a claimant for appeals purposes, if any, 
                shall be provided an opportunity to review the fully 
                developed appeal of the claimant and submit any 
                additional arguments or evidence that the 
                representative determines necessary during a period 
                specified by the Board for purposes of this 
                subparagraph.
            (4) Prohibition on remand for additional development.--If 
        the Board of Veterans' Appeals determines that a fully 
        developed appeal requires Federal records, independent medical 
        opinions, or new medical examinations, the Board shall--
                    (A) in accordance with paragraph (5), take such 
                actions as may be necessary to develop such records, 
                opinions, or examinations in accordance with section 
                5103A of title 38, United States Code;
                    (B) retain jurisdiction of the fully developed 
                appeal without requiring a determination by the 
                Veterans Benefits Administration based on such records, 
                opinions, or examinations;
                    (C) ensure the claimant, and the representative of 
                record of a claimant, if any, receives a copy of such 
                records, opinions, or examinations; and
                    (D) provide the claimant a period of 90 days after 
                the date of mailing such records, opinions, or 
                examinations during which the claimant may provide the 
                Board any additional evidence without requiring the 
                claimant to make a reversion pursuant to subsection 
                (b)(4).
            (5) Development unit.--
                    (A) Establishment.--The Board of Veterans' Appeals 
                shall establish an office to develop Federal records, 
                independent medical opinions, and new medical 
                examinations pursuant to paragraph (4)(A) that the 
                Board determines necessary to decide a fully developed 
                appeal.
                    (B) Requirements.--The Secretary shall--
                            (i) ensure that the Veterans Benefits 
                        Administration cooperates with the Board of 
                        Veterans' Appeals in carrying out subparagraph 
                        (A); and
                            (ii) transfer employees of the Veterans 
                        Benefits Administration who, prior to the 
                        enactment of this Act, were responsible for 
                        processing claims remanded by the Board of 
                        Veterans' Appeals to positions within the 
                        office of the Board established under 
                        subparagraph (A) in a number the Secretary 
                        determines sufficient to carry out such 
                        subparagraph.
            (6) Hearings.--Notwithstanding section 7107 of title 38, 
        United States Code, the Secretary may not provide hearings with 
        respect to fully developed appeals under the pilot program. If 
        a claimant requests to hold a hearing pursuant to such section 
        7107, such request shall be deemed to be an election to revert 
        to the standard appeals process pursuant to subsection (b)(4).
    (d) Duration; Applicability.--
            (1) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
        program during a five-year period beginning not later than one 
        year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Applicability.--This section shall apply only to fully 
        developed appeals that are filed during the period in which the 
        pilot program is carried out pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (e) Annual Reports.--
            (1) In general.--During each year in which the pilot 
        program is carried out, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
        on the pilot program. The first such report shall be submitted 
        by not later than 180 days after the date on which the pilot 
        program commences.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) For the period covered by the report--
                            (i) the number of fully developed appeals 
                        filed under the pilot program;
                            (ii) the average processing time for each 
                        such appeal adjudicated by the Board of 
                        Veterans' Appeals, disaggregated by each phase 
                        of the appeal, and, if the processing time for 
                        appeals exceed one year, the reasons for such 
                        processing time;
                            (iii) a summary of reasons for which the 
                        development of evidence was required under 
                        subsection (c)(5);
                            (iv) the number of issues decided, 
                        disaggregated by the disposition of the issue;
                            (v) of the number identified in clause 
                        (iv), the number of issues for which evidence 
                        was not so developed, disaggregated by the 
                        disposition of the issue;
                            (vi) of the number of fully developed 
                        appeals decided by the Board of Veterans' 
                        Appeals, the number of cases from each agency 
                        of original jurisdiction, the total number of 
                        issues allowed, and the total number of issues 
                        denied from those cases;
                            (vii) the number of fully developed appeals 
                        appealed to the Court of Appeals for Veterans 
                        Claims, disaggregated by the disposition of the 
                        case;
                            (viii) the number of reversions made under 
                        subsection (b)(4);
                            (ix) any reasons for why a claimant was 
                        determined to be ineligible to participate in 
                        the pilot program; and
                            (x) to the extent practicable, a 
                        qualitative assessment of the results achieved 
                        by claimants through the pilot program compared 
                        to results achieved by claimants through the 
                        standard appeal process.
                    (B) A review, made in conjunction with veterans 
                service organizations and such other stakeholders as 
                the Secretary considers appropriate, of the efforts of 
                the Secretary to provide clear rating decisions and 
                improve disability rating notification letters, 
                including with respect to--
                            (i) the opinions of veterans service 
                        organizations and such other stakeholders as 
                        the Secretary considers appropriate regarding 
                        such efforts; and
                            (ii) how the pilot program improves such 
                        efforts.
                    (C) A recommendation for such legislative or 
                administrative action as the Secretary considers may 
                improve the pilot program.
                    (D) An assessment of the feasibility and 
                advisability of expanding the pilot program.
    (f) Regulations.--The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as 
may be necessary to carry out the pilot program.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Claimant.--The term ``claimant'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 5100 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Compensation.--The term ``compensation'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 101 of title 38, United 
        States Code.
            (3) Fully developed appeal.--The term ``fully developed 
        appeal'' means an appeal of a claim for disability compensation 
        that is--
                    (A) filed by a claimant in accordance with 
                subsection (b)(1); and
                    (B) considered in accordance with this section.
            (4) Standard appeal.--The term ``standard appeal'' means an 
        appeal of a claim for disability compensation that is not a 
        fully developed appeal.

SEC. 306. REQUIREMENT THAT SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PUBLISH THE 
              AVERAGE TIME REQUIRED TO ADJUDICATE TIMELY AND UNTIMELY 
              APPEALS.

    (a) Publication Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--On an ongoing basis, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall make available to the public the 
        following:
                    (A) The average length of time to adjudicate a 
                timely appeal.
                    (B) The average length of time to adjudicate an 
                untimely appeal.
            (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall take effect on the 
        date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act and shall apply until the date that is three years after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 39 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
        on whether publication pursuant to subsection (a)(1) has had an 
        effect on the number of timely appeals filed.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) The number of appeals and timely appeals that 
                were filed during the one-year period ending on the 
                effective date specified in subsection (a)(2).
                    (B) The number of appeals and timely appeals that 
                were filed during the one-year period ending on the 
                date that is two years after the effective date 
                specified in subsection (a)(2).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appeal.--The term ``appeal'' means a notice of 
        disagreement filed pursuant to section 7105(a) of title 38, 
        United States Code, in response to notice of the result of an 
        initial review or determination regarding a claim for a benefit 
        under a law administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Timely.--The term ``timely'' with respect to an appeal 
        means that the notice of disagreement was filed not more than 
        180 days after the date of mailing of the notice of the result 
        of the initial review or determination described in paragraph 
        (1).
            (3) Untimely.--The term ``untimely'' with respect to an 
        appeal means the notice of disagreement was filed more than 180 
        days after the date of mailing of the notice of the result of 
        the initial review or determination described in paragraph (1).

SEC. 307. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF CLAIMS PROCESSING PERFORMANCE 
              OF REGIONAL OFFICES OF VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Review Required.--Not later than 15 months after the effective 
date specified in subsection (e), the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall complete a review of the regional offices of the Veterans 
Benefits Administration to help the Veterans Benefits Administration 
achieve more consistent performance in the processing of claims for 
disability compensation.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An identification of the following:
                    (A) The factors, including management practices, 
                that distinguish higher performing regional offices 
                from other regional offices with respect to claims for 
                disability compensation.
                    (B) The best practices employed by higher 
                performing regional offices that distinguish the 
                performance of such offices from other regional 
                offices.
                    (C) Such other management practices or tools as the 
                Comptroller General determines could be used to improve 
                the performance of regional offices.
            (2) An assessment of the effectiveness of communication 
        with respect to the processing of claims for disability 
        compensation between the regional offices and veterans service 
        organizations and caseworkers employed by Members of Congress.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 15 months after the effective date 
specified in subsection (e), the Comptroller General shall submit to 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
results of the review completed under subsection (a).
    (d) Veterans Service Organization Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``veterans service organization'' means any organization 
recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under 
section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.
    (e) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 308. REPORT ON PARTICIPATION OF VETERANS SERVICE ORGANIZATIONS IN 
              TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a report on participation of veterans service organizations in 
the program carried out under section 1144 of title 10, United States 
Code.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the compliance of facilities of the 
        Department of Defense with the directives included in the 
        memorandum of the Secretary of Defense entitled ``Installation 
        Access and Support Services for Nonprofit Non-Federal 
        Entities'' and dated December 23, 2014.
            (2) The number of military bases that have complied with 
        such directives.
            (3) How many veterans service organizations have been 
        present at a portion of a program as described in subsection 
        (a).
    (c) Veterans Service Organization Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``veterans service organization'' means any organization 
recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under 
section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 309. INCLUSION IN ANNUAL BUDGET SUBMISSION OF INFORMATION ON 
              CAPACITY OF VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION TO PROCESS 
              BENEFITS CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--Along with the supporting information included in 
the budget submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the President shall include 
information on the capacity of the Veterans Benefits Administration to 
process claims for benefits under the laws administered by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs, including information described in 
subsection (b), during the fiscal year covered by the budget with which 
the information is submitted.
    (b) Information Described.--The information described in this 
subsection is the following:
            (1) An estimate of the average number of claims for 
        benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary, 
        excluding such claims completed during mandatory overtime, that 
        a single full-time equivalent employee of the Administration 
        should be able to process in a year, based on the following:
                    (A) A time and motion study that the Secretary 
                shall conduct on the processing of such claims.
                    (B) Such other information relating to such claims 
                as the Secretary considers appropriate.
            (2) A description of the actions the Secretary will take to 
        improve the processing of such claims.
            (3) An assessment of the actions identified by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (2) in the previous year and an 
        identification of the effects of those actions.
    (c) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to any 
budget submitted as described in subsection (a) with respect to any 
fiscal year after fiscal year 2017.

SEC. 310. REPORT ON STAFFING LEVELS AT REGIONAL OFFICES OF DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AFTER TRANSITION TO NATIONAL WORK 
              QUEUE.

    Not later than 15 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on the criteria and procedures 
that the Secretary will use to determine appropriate staffing levels at 
the regional offices of the Department once the Department has 
transitioned to using the National Work Queue for the distribution of 
the claims processing workload.

SEC. 311. ANNUAL REPORT ON PROGRESS IN IMPLEMENTING VETERANS BENEFITS 
              MANAGEMENT SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than each of one year, two years, and 
three years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
of Veterans Affairs shall submit to Congress a report on the progress 
of the Secretary in implementing the Veterans Benefits Management 
System.
    (b) Contents.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
            (1) An assessment of the current functionality of the 
        Veterans Benefits Management System.
            (2) Recommendations submitted to the Secretary by employees 
        of the Department of Veterans Affairs who are involved in 
        processing claims for benefits under the laws administered by 
        the Secretary, including veterans service representatives, 
        rating veterans service representatives, and decision review 
        officers, for such legislative or administrative action as the 
        employees consider appropriate to improve the processing of 
        such claims.
            (3) Recommendations submitted to the Secretary by veterans 
        service organizations who use the Veterans Benefits Management 
        System for such legislative or administrative action as the 
        veterans service organizations consider appropriate to improve 
        such system.
    (c) Veterans Service Organization Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``veterans service organization'' means any organization 
recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under 
section 5902 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 312. REPORT ON PLANS OF SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO REDUCE 
              INVENTORY OF NON-RATING WORKLOAD.

    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report that details the plans of the 
Secretary to reduce the inventory of work items listed in the Monday 
Morning Workload Report under End Products 130, 137, 173, 290, 400, 
600, 607, 690, 930, and 960.

SEC. 313. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON INCREASED TRANSPARENCY RELATING TO 
              CLAIMS FOR BENEFITS AND APPEALS OF DECISIONS RELATING TO 
              BENEFITS IN MONDAY MORNING WORKLOAD REPORT.

    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
should include in each Monday Morning Workload Report published by the 
Secretary the following:
            (1) With respect to each regional office of the Department 
        of Veterans Affairs, the following:
                    (A) The number of fully developed claims for 
                benefits under the laws administered by the Secretary 
                that have been received.
                    (B) The number of claims described in subparagraph 
                (A) that are pending a decision.
                    (C) The number of claims described in subparagraph 
                (A) that have been pending a decision for more than 125 
                days.
            (2) Enhanced information on appeals of decisions relating 
        to claims for benefits under the laws administered by the 
        Secretary that are pending, including information contained in 
        the reports of the Department entitled ``Appeals Pending'' and 
        ``Appeals Workload By Station''.

SEC. 314. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING AMERICAN VETERANS DISABLED FOR 
              LIFE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) There are at least 4,200,000 veterans currently living 
        with service-connected disabilities.
            (2) As a result of their service, many veterans are 
        permanently disabled throughout their lives and in many cases 
        must rely on the support of their families and friends when 
        these visible and invisible burdens become too much to bear 
        alone.
            (3) October 5, which is the anniversary of the dedication 
        of the American Veterans Disabled for Life Memorial, has been 
        recognized as an appropriate day on which to honor American 
        veterans disabled for life each year.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
            (1) expresses its appreciation to the men and women left 
        permanently wounded, ill, or injured as a result of their 
        service in the Armed Forces;
            (2) supports the annual recognition of American veterans 
        disabled for life each year; and
            (3) encourages the American people to honor American 
        veterans disabled for life each year with appropriate programs 
        and activities.

SEC. 315. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SUBMITTAL OF INFORMATION RELATING TO 
              CLAIMS FOR DISABILITIES INCURRED OR AGGRAVATED BY 
              MILITARY SEXUAL TRAUMA.

    (a) In General.--It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs should submit to Congress information on the covered 
claims submitted to the Secretary during each fiscal year, including 
the information specified in subsection (b).
    (b) Elements.--The information specified in this subsection with 
respect to each fiscal year is the following:
            (1) The number of covered claims submitted to or considered 
        by the Secretary during such fiscal year.
            (2) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1), the number 
        and percentage of such claims--
                    (A) submitted by each sex;
                    (B) that were approved, including the number and 
                percentage of such approved claims submitted by each 
                sex; and
                    (C) that were denied, including the number and 
                percentage of such denied claims submitted by each sex.
            (3) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1) that were 
        approved, the number and percentage, listed by each sex, of 
        claims assigned to each rating percentage of disability.
            (4) Of the covered claims under paragraph (1) that were 
        denied--
                    (A) the three most common reasons given by the 
                Secretary under section 5104(b)(1) of title 38, United 
                States Code, for such denials; and
                    (B) the number of denials that were based on the 
                failure of a veteran to report for a medical 
                examination.
            (5) The number of covered claims that, as of the end of 
        such fiscal year, are pending and, separately, the number of 
        such claims on appeal.
            (6) The average number of days that covered claims take to 
        complete beginning on the date on which the claim is submitted.
            (7) A description of the training that the Secretary 
        provides to employees of the Veterans Benefits Administration 
        specifically with respect to covered claims, including the 
        frequency, length, and content of such training.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered claims.--The term ``covered claims'' means 
        claims for disability compensation submitted to the Secretary 
        based on post-traumatic stress disorder alleged to have been 
        incurred or aggravated by military sexual trauma.
            (2) Military sexual trauma.--The term ``military sexual 
        trauma'' shall have the meaning specified by the Secretary for 
        purposes of this section and shall include ``sexual 
        harassment'' (as so specified).

                          TITLE IV--EDUCATION

    Subtitle A--Educational Assistance and Vocational Rehabilitation

SEC. 401. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR MARINE GUNNERY SERGEANT JOHN 
              DAVID FRY SCHOLARSHIP.

    (a) In General.--Section 701(d) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 128 Stat. 1796; 38 
U.S.C. 3311 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Applicability.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as 
        applicable, commencing on or after January 1, 2015.
            ``(2) Deaths that occurred between september 11, 2001, and 
        december 31, 2005.--For purposes of section 3311(f)(2) of title 
        38, United States Code, any member of the Armed Forces who died 
        during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending 
        on December 31, 2005, is deemed to have died on January 1, 
        2006.''.
    (b) Election on Receipt of Certain Benefits.--Section 3311(f) of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``A surviving spouse'' 
        and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (4), a 
        surviving spouse'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(4) Exception for certain elections.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An election made under paragraph 
                (3) by a spouse described in subparagraph (B) may not 
                be treated as irrevocable if such election occurred 
                before the date of the enactment of this paragraph.
                    ``(B) Eligible surviving spouse.--A spouse 
                described in this subparagraph is an individual--
                            ``(i) who is entitled to assistance under 
                        subsection (a) pursuant to paragraph (9) of 
                        subsection (b); and
                            ``(ii) who was the spouse of a member of 
                        the Armed Forces who died during the period 
                        beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on 
                        December 31, 2005.''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Paragraph (5) of subsection (f) of 
section 3311 of title 38, United States Code, as redesignated by 
subsection (b)(2), is amended by striking ``that paragraph'' and 
inserting ``paragraph (9) of subsection (b)''.
    (d) Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program.--Section 
3317(a) of such title is amended by striking ``paragraphs (1) and (2) 
of section 3311(b)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1), (2), and (9) of 
section 3311(b) of this title''.

SEC. 402. RESTORATION OF ENTITLEMENT TO POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE FOR VETERANS AFFECTED BY CLOSURES OF 
              EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) Educational Assistance.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3312 of title 38, United States 
        Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(d) Discontinuation of Education Due to Closure of Educational 
Institution.--
            ``(1) In general.--Any payment of educational assistance 
        described in paragraph (2) shall not--
                    ``(A) be charged against any entitlement to 
                educational assistance of the individual concerned 
                under this chapter; or
                    ``(B) be counted against the aggregate period for 
                which section 3695 of this title limits the 
                individual's receipt of educational assistance under 
                this chapter.
            ``(2) Description of payment of educational assistance.--
        Subject to paragraph (3), the payment of educational assistance 
        described in this paragraph is the payment of such assistance 
        to an individual for pursuit of a course or courses under this 
        chapter if the Secretary finds that the individual--
                    ``(A) was forced to discontinue such course pursuit 
                as a result of a permanent closure of an educational 
                institution; and
                    ``(B) did not receive credit, or lost training 
                time, toward completion of the program of education 
                being pursued at the time of such closure.
            ``(3) Period for which payment not charged.--The period for 
        which, by reason of this subsection, educational assistance is 
        not charged against entitlement or counted toward the 
        applicable aggregate period under section 3695 of this title 
        shall not exceed the aggregate of--
                    ``(A) the portion of the period of enrollment in 
                the course or courses from which the individual failed 
                to receive credit or with respect to which the 
                individual lost training time, as determined under 
                paragraph (2)(B), and
                    ``(B) the period by which a monthly stipend is 
                extended under section 3680(a)(2)(B) of this title.''.
            (2) Applicability.--Subsection (d) of such section, as 
        added by paragraph (1), shall apply with respect to courses and 
        programs of education discontinued as described in paragraph 
        (2) of such subsection in fiscal year 2015 or any fiscal year 
        thereafter.
    (b) Monthly Housing Stipend.--
            (1) In general.--Section 3680(a) of such title is amended--
                    (A) by striking the matter after paragraph (3)(B);
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by redesignating 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), 
                respectively;
                    (C) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
                subparagraphs (A) through (C), respectively;
                    (D) in the matter before subparagraph (A), as 
                redesignated, in the first sentence, by striking 
                ``Payment of'' and inserting ``(1) Except as provided 
                in paragraph (2), payment of''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph (2):
    ``(2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may, pursuant to 
such regulations as the Secretary shall prescribe, continue to pay 
allowances to eligible veterans and eligible persons enrolled in 
courses set forth in paragraph (1)(A)--
            ``(A) during periods when schools are temporarily closed 
        under an established policy based on an Executive order of the 
        President or due to an emergency situation, except that the 
        total number of weeks for which allowances may continue to be 
        so payable in any 12-month period may not exceed four weeks; or
            ``(B) solely for the purpose of awarding a monthly housing 
        stipend described in section 3313 of this title, during periods 
        following a permanent school closure, except that payment of 
        such a stipend may only be continued until the earlier of--
                    ``(i) the date of the end of the term, quarter, or 
                semester during which the school closure occurred; and
                    ``(ii) the date that is 4 months after the date of 
                the school closure.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Paragraph (1)(C)(ii) of such 
        section, as redesignated, is amended by striking ``described in 
        subclause (A) of this clause'' and inserting ``described in 
        clause (i)''.

SEC. 403. CONSIDERATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE FOR CERTAIN TIME ON ACTIVE DUTY IN RESERVE 
              COMPONENTS OF ARMED FORCES.

    (a) In General.--Section 3301(1)(B) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``12302, or 12304'' and inserting 
``12301(h), 12302, 12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.
    (b) Effective Date and Applicability.--The amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) take effect on the date that is one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act;
            (2) apply with respect to assistance provided under chapter 
        33 of such title on and after the date that is one year after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (3) apply with respect to any member of a reserve component 
        of the Armed Forces who serves or has served on active duty 
        under section 12301(h), 12304a, or 12304b of title 10, United 
        States Code, before, on, or after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act.

SEC. 404. APPROVAL OF COURSES OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR PURPOSES OF 
              THE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3104(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``A rehabilitation''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), to the maximum 
extent practicable, a course of education or training may be pursued by 
a veteran as part of a rehabilitation program under this chapter only 
if the course is approved for purposes of chapter 30 or 33 of this 
title.
    ``(B) The Secretary may waive the requirement under subparagraph 
(A) to the extent the Secretary determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course of education or training pursued by a 
veteran who first begins a program of rehabilitation under chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date that is one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 405. AUTHORITY TO PRIORITIZE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES 
              BASED ON NEED.

    Section 3104 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 
404, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary shall have the authority to administer this 
chapter by prioritizing the provision of services under this chapter 
based on need, as determined by the Secretary.
    ``(2) In evaluating need for purposes of this subsection, the 
Secretary shall consider disability ratings, the severity of employment 
handicaps, qualification for a program of independent living services 
and assistance, income, and such other factors as the Secretary 
considers appropriate.
    ``(3) Not later than 90 days before making any changes to the 
prioritization of the provision of services under this chapter as 
authorized under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
a plan describing such changes.''.

SEC. 406. CODIFICATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF ELECTION PROCESS FOR POST-9/
              11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating section 3325 as section 3326; and
            (2) by inserting after section 3324 the following new 
        section 3325:
``Sec. 3325. Election to receive educational assistance
    ``(a) Individuals Eligible to Elect Participation in Post-9/11 
Educational Assistance.--An individual may elect to receive educational 
assistance under this chapter if such individual--
            ``(1) as of August 1, 2009--
                    ``(A) is entitled to basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title and has used, but 
                retains unused, entitlement under that chapter;
                    ``(B) is entitled to educational assistance under 
                chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10 and has used, 
                but retains unused, entitlement under the applicable 
                chapter;
                    ``(C) is entitled to basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title but has not used any 
                entitlement under that chapter;
                    ``(D) is entitled to educational assistance under 
                chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10 but has not used 
                any entitlement under such chapter;
                    ``(E) is a member of the Armed Forces who is 
                eligible for receipt of basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title and is making 
                contributions toward such assistance under section 
                3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title; or
                    ``(F) is a member of the Armed Forces who is not 
                entitled to basic educational assistance under chapter 
                30 of this title by reason of an election under section 
                3011(c)(1) or 3012(d)(1) of this title; and
            ``(2) as of the date of the individual's election under 
        this paragraph, meets the requirements for entitlement to 
        educational assistance under this chapter.
    ``(b) Cessation of Contributions Toward GI Bill.--Effective as of 
the first month beginning on or after the date of an election under 
subsection (a) of an individual described by paragraph (1)(E) of that 
subsection, the obligation of the individual to make contributions 
under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title, as applicable, shall 
cease, and the requirements of such section shall be deemed to be no 
longer applicable to the individual.
    ``(c) Revocation of Remaining Transferred Entitlement.--
            ``(1) Election to revoke.--If, on the date an individual 
        described in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(C) of subsection (a) makes 
        an election under that subsection, a transfer of the 
        entitlement of the individual to basic educational assistance 
        under section 3020 of this title is in effect and a number of 
        months of the entitlement so transferred remain unutilized, the 
        individual may elect to revoke all or a portion of the 
        entitlement so transferred that remains unutilized.
            ``(2) Availability of revoked entitlement.--Any entitlement 
        revoked by an individual under this paragraph shall no longer 
        be available to the dependent to whom transferred, but shall be 
        available to the individual instead for educational assistance 
        under chapter 33 of this title in accordance with the 
        provisions of this section.
            ``(3) Availability of unrevoked entitlement.--Any 
        entitlement described in paragraph (1) that is not revoked by 
        an individual in accordance with that paragraph shall remain 
        available to the dependent or dependents concerned in 
        accordance with the current transfer of such entitlement under 
        section 3020 of this title.
    ``(d) Post-9/11 Educational Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and except as 
        provided in subsection (e), an individual making an election 
        under subsection (a) shall be entitled to educational 
        assistance under this chapter in accordance with the provisions 
        of this chapter, instead of basic educational assistance under 
        chapter 30 of this title, or educational assistance under 
        chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10, as applicable.
            ``(2) Limitation on entitlement for certain individuals.--
        In the case of an individual making an election under 
        subsection (a) who is described by paragraph (1)(A) of that 
        subsection, the number of months of entitlement of the 
        individual to educational assistance under this chapter shall 
        be the number of months equal to--
                    ``(A) the number of months of unused entitlement of 
                the individual under chapter 30 of this title, as of 
                the date of the election, plus
                    ``(B) the number of months, if any, of entitlement 
                revoked by the individual under subsection (c)(1).
    ``(e) Continuing Entitlement to Educational Assistance Not 
Available Under 9/11 Assistance Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the event educational assistance to 
        which an individual making an election under subsection (a) 
        would be entitled under chapter 30 of this title, or chapter 
        107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10, as applicable, is not 
        authorized to be available to the individual under the 
        provisions of this chapter the individual shall remain entitled 
        to such educational assistance in accordance with the 
        provisions of the applicable chapter.
            ``(2) Charge for use of entitlement.--The utilization by an 
        individual of entitlement under paragraph (1) shall be 
        chargeable against the entitlement of the individual to 
        educational assistance under this chapter at the rate of one 
        month of entitlement under this chapter for each month of 
        entitlement utilized by the individual under paragraph (1) (as 
        determined as if such entitlement were utilized under the 
        provisions of chapter 30 of this title, or chapter 107, 1606, 
        or 1607 of title 10, as applicable).
    ``(f) Additional Post-9/11 Assistance for Members Having Made 
Contributions Toward GI Bill.--
            ``(1) Additional assistance.--In the case of an individual 
        making an election under subsection (a) who is described by 
        subparagraph (A), (C), or (E) of paragraph (1) of that 
        subsection, the amount of educational assistance payable to the 
        individual under this chapter as a monthly stipend payable 
        under paragraph (1)(B) of section 3313(c) of this title, or 
        under paragraphs (2) through (7) of that section (as 
        applicable), shall be the amount otherwise payable as a monthly 
        stipend under the applicable paragraph increased by the amount 
        equal to--
                    ``(A) the total amount of contributions toward 
                basic educational assistance made by the individual 
                under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title, as of 
                the date of the election, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the fraction--
                            ``(i) the numerator of which is--
                                    ``(I) the number of months of 
                                entitlement to basic educational 
                                assistance under chapter 30 of this 
                                title remaining to the individual at 
                                the time of the election; plus
                                    ``(II) the number of months, if 
                                any, of entitlement under chapter 30 
                                revoked by the individual under 
                                subsection (c)(1); and
                            ``(ii) the denominator of which is 36 
                        months.
            ``(2) Months of remaining entitlement for certain 
        individuals.--In the case of an individual covered by paragraph 
        (1) who is described by subsection (a)(1)(E), the number of 
        months of entitlement to basic educational assistance remaining 
        to the individual for purposes of paragraph (1)(B)(i)(II) shall 
        be 36 months.
            ``(3) Timing of payment.--The amount payable with respect 
        to an individual under paragraph (1) shall be paid to the 
        individual together with the last payment of the monthly 
        stipend payable to the individual under paragraph (1)(B) of 
        section 3313(c) of this title, or under paragraphs (2) through 
        (7) of that section (as applicable), before the exhaustion of 
        the individual's entitlement to educational assistance under 
        this chapter.
    ``(g) Continuing Entitlement to Additional Assistance for Critical 
Skills or Speciality and Additional Service.--An individual making an 
election under subsection (a)(1) who, at the time of the election, is 
entitled to increased educational assistance under section 3015(d) of 
this title, or section 16131(i) of title 10, or supplemental 
educational assistance under subchapter III of chapter 30 of this 
title, shall remain entitled to such increased educational assistance 
or supplemental educational assistance in the utilization of 
entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter, in an amount 
equal to the quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, equivalent of 
the monthly amount of such increased educational assistance or 
supplemental educational assistance payable with respect to the 
individual at the time of the election.
    ``(h) Alternative Election by Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of an individual who, on or 
        after January 1, 2016, submits to the Secretary an election 
        under this section that the Secretary determines is clearly 
        against the interests of the individual, or who fails to make 
        an election under this section, the Secretary may make an 
        alternative election on behalf of the individual that the 
        Secretary determines is in the best interests of the 
        individual.
            ``(2) Notice.--If the Secretary makes an election on behalf 
        of an individual under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        notify the individual by not later than seven days after making 
        such election and shall provide the individual with a 30-day 
        period, beginning on the date of the individual's receipt of 
        such notice, during which the individual may modify or revoke 
        the election made by the Secretary on the individual's behalf. 
        The Secretary shall include, as part of such notice, a clear 
        statement of why the alternative election made by the Secretary 
        is in the best interests of the individual as compared to the 
        election submitted by the individual. The Secretary shall 
        provide the notice required under this paragraph by electronic 
        means whenever possible.
    ``(i) Irrevocability of Elections.--An election under subsection 
(a) or (c)(1) is irrevocable.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 3325 
and inserting the following new items:

``3325. Election to receive educational assistance.
``3326. Reporting requirement.''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Subsection (c) of section 5003 of the Post-
9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 
38 U.S.C. 3301 note) is hereby repealed.

SEC. 407. WORK-STUDY ALLOWANCE.

    Section 3485(a)(4) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``June 30, 2013'' each place it appears and inserting ``June 
30, 2013, or the period beginning on June 30, 2016, and ending on June 
30, 2021''.

SEC. 408. RETENTION OF ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE DURING 
              CERTAIN ADDITIONAL PERIODS OF ACTIVE DUTY.

    (a) Educational Assistance Allowance.--Section 16131(c)(3)(B)(i) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or 12304'' and 
inserting ``12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.
    (b) Expiration Date.--Section 16133(b)(4) of such title is amended 
by striking ``or 12304'' and inserting ``12304, 12304a, or 12304b''.

SEC. 409. ELIGIBILITY FOR POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR CERTAIN 
              MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS OF ARMED FORCES WHO LOST 
              ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE UNDER RESERVE 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Election.--Section 16167 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Eligibility for Post-9/11 Educational Assistance.--A member 
who loses eligibility for benefits under this chapter pursuant to 
subsection (b) shall be allowed to elect (in such form and manner as 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may prescribe) to have such service 
previously credited toward this chapter credited towards establishing 
eligibility for educational assistance under chapter 33 of title 38, 
United States Code, notwithstanding the provisions of section 16163(e) 
of this title or section 3322(h)(1) of title 38.''.
    (b) Qualification of Service.--Section 3301(1) of title 38, United 
States Code, shall be construed to include, in the case of a member of 
a reserve component of the Armed Forces who, before November 25, 2015, 
established eligibility for educational assistance under chapter 1607 
of title 10, United States Code, pursuant to section 16163(a)(1) of 
such title, but lost eligibility for such educational assistance 
pursuant to section 16167(b) of such title, service on active duty (as 
defined in section 101 of such title) that satisfies the requirements 
of section 16163(a)(1) of such title.
    (c) Entitlement.--Section 3311(b)(8) of title 38, United States 
Code, shall be construed to include an individual who, before November 
25, 2015, established eligibility for educational assistance under 
chapter 1607 of title 10, United States Code, pursuant to section 
16163(b) of such title, but lost such eligibility pursuant to section 
16167(b) of such title.
    (d) Duration.--Notwithstanding section 3312 of title 38, United 
States Code, an individual who establishes eligibility for educational 
assistance under chapter 33 of such title by crediting towards such 
chapter service previously credited towards chapter 1607 of title 10, 
United States Code, is only entitled to a number of months of 
educational assistance under section 3313 of title 38, United States 
Code, equal to the number of months of entitlement remaining under 
chapter 1607 of title 10, United States Code, at the time of conversion 
to chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code.

SEC. 410. REPORTS ON PROGRESS OF STUDENTS RECEIVING POST-9/11 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by section 406, is further amended--
            (1) in subsection 3326(c), as redesignated--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' after the 
                semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (4); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following 
                new paragraph (3):
            ``(3) the information received by the Secretary under 
        section 3327 of this title; and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3327. Report on student progress
    ``As a condition on approval under chapter 36 of this title of a 
course offered by an educational institution (as defined in section 
3452 of this title), each year, each educational institution (as so 
defined) that received a payment in that year on behalf of an 
individual entitled to educational assistance under this chapter shall 
submit to the Secretary such information regarding the academic 
progress of the individual as the Secretary may require.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by section 406, is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new item:

``3327. Report on student progress.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.

          Subtitle B--Administration of Educational Assistance

SEC. 421. CENTRALIZED REPORTING OF VETERAN ENROLLMENT BY CERTAIN 
              GROUPS, DISTRICTS, AND CONSORTIUMS OF EDUCATIONAL 
              INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3684(a) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``32, 33,'' after 
        ``31,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `educational 
institution' may include a group, district, or consortium of separately 
accredited educational institutions located in the same State that are 
organized in a manner that facilitates the centralized reporting of the 
enrollments in such group, district, or consortium of institutions.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to reports submitted on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 422. PROVISION OF INFORMATION REGARDING VETERAN ENTITLEMENT TO 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 36 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3699. Provision of certain information to educational 
              institutions
    ``(a) In General.--For each veteran or other individual pursuing a 
course of education that has been approved under this chapter using 
educational assistance to which the veteran or other individual is 
entitled under chapter 30, 32, 33, or 35 of this title, the Secretary 
shall make available to the educational institution offering the course 
information about the amount of such educational assistance to which 
the veteran or other individual is entitled.
    ``(b) Manner Information Is Provided.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that information made available to an educational institution under 
subsection (a) is provided to such educational institution pursuant to 
such subsection through a secure information technology system 
accessible by the educational institution.
    ``(c) Regular Updates.--The Secretary shall regularly update 
information provided under this section to reflect any amounts used by 
veterans and other individuals.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
3698 the following new item:

``3699. Provision of certain information to educational 
                            institutions.''.

SEC. 423. ROLE OF STATE APPROVING AGENCIES.

    (a) Approval of Certain Courses.--Section 3672(b)(2)(A) of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the following'' and 
all that follows through the colon and inserting the following: ``a 
program of education is deemed to be approved for purposes of this 
chapter if a State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in 
the role of a State approving agency, determines that the program is 
one of the following programs:''.
    (b) Approval of Other Courses.--Section 3675 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary or a State 
                approving agency'' and inserting ``A State approving 
                agency, or the Secretary when acting in the role of a 
                State approving agency,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``offered by proprietary for-profit 
                educational institutions'' and inserting ``not covered 
                by section 3672 of this title''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by striking 
                ``the Secretary or the State approving agency'' and 
                inserting ``the State approving agency, or the 
                Secretary when acting in the role of a State approving 
                agency,''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Secretary 
                or the State approving agency'' and inserting ``the 
                State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in 
                the role of a State approving agency''.

SEC. 424. CRITERIA USED TO APPROVE COURSES.

    (a) Nonaccredited Courses.--Section 3676(c)(14) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting before the period the following: 
``if the Secretary, in consultation with the State approving agency and 
pursuant to regulations prescribed to carry out this paragraph, 
determines such criteria are necessary and treat public, private, and 
proprietary for-profit educational institutions equitably''.
    (b) Accredited Courses.--Section 3675(b)(3) of such title is 
amended by striking ``and (3)'' and inserting ``(3), and (14)''.
    (c) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to--
            (1) criteria developed pursuant to paragraph (14) of 
        subsection (c) of section 3676 of title 38, United States Code, 
        on or after January 1, 2013; and
            (2) an investigation conducted under such subsection that 
        is covered by a reimbursement of expenses paid by the Secretary 
        of Veterans Affairs to a State pursuant to section 3674 of such 
        title on or after October 1, 2015.

SEC. 425. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR APPROVAL FOR PURPOSES OF 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROVIDED BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS OF PROGRAMS DESIGNED TO PREPARE INDIVIDUALS FOR 
              LICENSURE OR CERTIFICATION.

    (a) Approval of Nonaccredited Courses.--Subsection (c) of section 
3676 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by this subtitle, is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (16); and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (13) the following new 
        paragraphs:
            ``(14) In the case of a course designed to prepare an 
        individual for licensure or certification in a State, the 
        course--
                    ``(A) meets all instructional curriculum licensure 
                or certification requirements of such State; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a course designed to prepare 
                an individual for licensure to practice law in a State, 
                is accredited by an accrediting agency or association 
                recognized by the Secretary of Education under subpart 
                2 of part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1099b).
            ``(15) In the case of a course designed to prepare an 
        individual for employment pursuant to standards developed by a 
        board or agency of a State in an occupation that requires 
        approval, licensure, or certification, the course--
                    ``(A) meets such standards; and
                    ``(B) in the case of a course designed to prepare 
                an individual for licensure to practice law in a State, 
                is accredited by an accrediting agency or association 
                recognized by the Secretary of Education under subpart 
                2 of part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1099b).''.
    (b) Exceptions.--Such section is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(f)(1) The Secretary may waive the requirements of paragraph (14) 
or (15) of subsection (c) in the case of a course of education offered 
by an educational institution (either accredited or not accredited) if 
the Secretary determines all of the following:
            ``(A) The educational institution is not accredited by an 
        agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education.
            ``(B) The course did not meet the requirements of such 
        paragraph at any time during the two-year period preceding the 
        date of the waiver.
            ``(C) The waiver furthers the purposes of the educational 
        assistance programs administered by the Secretary or would 
        further the education interests of individuals eligible for 
        assistance under such programs.
            ``(D) The educational institution does not provide any 
        commission, bonus, or other incentive payment based directly or 
        indirectly on success in securing enrollments or financial aid 
        to any persons or entities engaged in any student recruiting or 
        admission activities or in making decisions regarding the award 
        of student financial assistance, except for the recruitment of 
        foreign students residing in foreign countries who are not 
        eligible to receive Federal student assistance.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary 
issues a waiver under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to 
Congress notice of such waiver and a justification for issuing such 
waiver.''.
    (c) Approval of Accredited Courses.--Section 3675(b)(3) of such 
title, as amended by this subtitle, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``and (14)'' and inserting ``(14), (15), 
        and (16)''; and
            (2) by inserting before the period at the end the 
        following: ``(or, with respect to such paragraphs (14) and 
        (15), the requirements under such paragraphs are waived 
        pursuant to subsection (f)(1) of section 3676 of this title)''.
    (d) Approval of Accredited Standard College Degree Programs Offered 
at Public or Not-for-profit Educational Institutions.--Section 
3672(b)(2) of such title is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``An accredited'' 
        and inserting ``Except as provided in subparagraph (C), an 
        accredited''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) A course that is described in both subparagraph (A)(i) of 
this paragraph and in paragraph (14) or (15) of section 3676(c) of this 
title shall not be deemed to be approved for purposes of this chapter 
unless--
            ``(i) a State approving agency, or the Secretary when 
        acting in the role of a State approving agency, determines that 
        the course meets the applicable criteria in such paragraphs; or
            ``(ii) the Secretary issues a waiver for such course under 
        section 3676(f)(1) of this title.''.
    (e) Disapproval of Courses.--Section 3679 of such title is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, the 
Secretary or the applicable State approving agency shall disapprove a 
course of education described in paragraph (14) or (15) of section 
3676(c) of this title unless the educational institution providing the 
course of education--
            ``(1) publicly discloses any conditions or additional 
        requirements, including training, experience, or examinations, 
        required to obtain the license, certification, or approval for 
        which the course of education is designed to provide 
        preparation; and
            ``(2) makes each disclosure required by paragraph (1) in a 
        manner that the Secretary considers prominent (as specified by 
        the Secretary in regulations prescribed for purposes of this 
        subsection).''.
    (f) Applicability.--If after enrollment in a course of education 
that is subject to disapproval by reason of an amendment made by this 
Act, an individual pursues one or more courses of education at the same 
educational institution while remaining continuously enrolled (other 
than during regularly scheduled breaks between courses, semesters, or 
terms) at that institution, any course so pursued by the individual at 
that institution while so continuously enrolled shall not be subject to 
disapproval by reason of such amendment.

SEC. 426. COMPLIANCE SURVEYS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3693 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
        new subsection (a):
    ``(a)(1) Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary shall 
conduct an annual compliance survey of educational institutions and 
training establishments offering one or more courses approved for the 
enrollment of eligible veterans or persons if at least 20 such veterans 
or persons are enrolled in any such course.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall--
            ``(A) design the compliance surveys required by paragraph 
        (1) to ensure that such institutions or establishments 
        described in such paragraph, as the case may be, and approved 
        courses are in compliance with all applicable provisions of 
        chapters 30 through 36 of this title;
            ``(B) survey each such educational institution and training 
        establishment not less than once during every two-year period; 
        and
            ``(C) assign not fewer than one education compliance 
        specialist to work on compliance surveys in any year for each 
        40 compliance surveys required to be made under this section 
        for such year.
    ``(3) The Secretary, in consultation with the State approving 
agencies, shall--
            ``(A) annually determine the parameters of the surveys 
        required under paragraph (1); and
            ``(B) not later than September 1 of each year, make 
        available to the State approving agencies a list of the 
        educational institutions and training establishments that will 
        be surveyed during the fiscal year following the date of making 
        such list available.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) In this section, the terms `educational institution' and 
`training establishment' have the meanings given such terms in section 
3452 of this title.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``subsection (a) of this section for an 
        annual compliance survey'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(1) 
        for a compliance survey'';
            (2) by striking ``institution'' and inserting ``educational 
        institution or training establishment''; and
            (3) by striking ``institution's demonstrated record of 
        compliance'' and inserting ``record of compliance of such 
        institution or establishment''.

SEC. 427. SURVEY OF INDIVIDUALS USING THEIR ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE UNDER THE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS 
              ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Survey Required.--
            (1) In general.--By not later than 270 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
        shall enter into a contract with a nongovernmental entity for 
        the conduct of a survey of a statistically valid sample of 
        individuals who have used or are using their entitlement to 
        educational assistance under chapters 30, 32, 33, and 35 of 
        title 38, United States Code, to pursue a program of education 
        or training.
            (2) Contract requirements.--The contract shall provide 
        that--
                    (A) not later than one month before the collection 
                of data under the survey begins, the survey shall be 
                submitted to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (B) the nongovernmental entity shall complete the 
                survey and submit to the Secretary the results of the 
                survey by not later than 180 days after entering into 
                the contract; and
                    (C) the survey shall be conducted by electronic 
                means and by any other means the nongovernmental entity 
                determines appropriate.
    (b) Information To Be Collected.--The contract under subsection (a) 
shall provide that the survey shall be designed to collect the 
following types of information about each individual surveyed, where 
applicable:
            (1) Demographic information, including the highest level of 
        education completed by the individual, the military 
        occupational specialty or specialties of the individual while 
        serving on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces or as a 
        member of the National Guard or of a Reserve Component of the 
        Armed Forces, and whether the individual has a service-
        connected disability.
            (2) The opinion of the individual regarding participation 
        in the transition assistance program under section 1144 of 
        title 10, United States Code, and the effectiveness of the 
        program, including instruction on the use of the benefits under 
        laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (3) The resources the individual used to help the 
        individual--
                    (A) decide to use the individual's entitlement to 
                educational assistance to enroll in a program of 
                education or training; and
                    (B) choose the program of education or training the 
                individual pursued.
            (4) The individual's goal when the individual enrolled in 
        the program of education or training.
            (5) The nature of the individual's experience with the 
        education benefits processing system of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs.
            (6) The nature of the individual's experience with the 
        school certifying official of the educational institution where 
        the individual pursued the program of education or training who 
        processed the individual's claim.
            (7) Any services or benefits the educational institution or 
        program of education or training provided to veterans while the 
        individual pursued the program of education or training.
            (8) The type of educational institution at which the 
        individual pursued the program of education or training.
            (9) Whether the individual completed the program of 
        education or training or the number of credit hours completed 
        by the individual as of the time of the survey, and, if 
        applicable, any degree or certificate obtained by the 
        individual for completing the program.
            (10) The employment status of the individual and whether 
        such employment status differs from the employment status of 
        the individual prior to enrolling in the program of education 
        or training.
            (11) Whether the individual is or was enrolled in a program 
        of education on a full-time or part-time basis.
            (12) The opinion of the individual on the effectiveness of 
        the educational assistance program of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs under which the individual was entitled to 
        educational assistance.
            (13) Whether the individual was ever entitled to a 
        rehabilitation under chapter 31 of title 38, United States 
        Code, and whether the individual participated in such a 
        program.
            (14) A description of any circumstances that prevented the 
        individual from using the individual's entitlement to 
        educational assistance to pursue a desired career path or 
        degree.
            (15) Whether the individual is using the individual's 
        entitlement to educational assistance to pursue a program of 
        education or training or has transferred such an entitlement to 
        a dependent.
            (16) Such other matters as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after receiving the results of 
the survey required under this section, the Secretary shall submit to 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on the 
results of the survey and any recommendations of the Secretary relating 
to such results. Such report shall also include an unedited version of 
the results of the survey submitted by the nongovernmental entity that 
conducted the survey.

SEC. 428. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO IN-STATE TUITION RATE FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS TO WHOM ENTITLEMENT IS TRANSFERRED UNDER ALL-
              VOLUNTEER FORCE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AND POST-
              9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Technical Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of section 3679(c)(2) of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
            ``(B) An individual who is entitled to assistance under--
                    ``(i) section 3311(b)(9) of this title; or
                    ``(ii) section 3319 of this title by virtue of the 
                individual's relationship to--
                            ``(I) a veteran described in subparagraph 
                        (A); or
                            ``(II) a member of the uniformed services 
                        described in section 3319(b) of this title who 
                        is serving on active duty.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course, semester, or term that begins after 
July 1, 2017.

                   TITLE V--EMPLOYMENT AND TRANSITION

SEC. 501. REQUIRED COORDINATION BETWEEN DIRECTORS FOR VETERANS' 
              EMPLOYMENT AND TRAINING WITH STATE DEPARTMENTS OF LABOR 
              AND VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 4103 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Coordination With State Departments of Labor and Veterans 
Affairs.--Each Director for Veterans' Employment and Training for a 
State shall coordinate the Director's activities under this chapter 
with the State department of labor and the State department of veterans 
affairs.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (c) of such section, as added by 
subsection (a), shall take effect on the date that is one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 502. LONGITUDINAL STUDY OF JOB COUNSELING, TRAINING, AND PLACEMENT 
              SERVICE FOR VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 41 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 4115. Longitudinal study of job counseling, training, and 
              placement service for veterans
    ``(a) Study Required.--(1) The Secretary shall enter into a 
contract with a nongovernmental entity to conduct a longitudinal study 
of a statistically valid sample of each of the groups of individuals 
described in paragraph (2). The contract shall provide for the study of 
each such group over a period of at least five years.
    ``(2) The groups of individuals described in this paragraph are the 
following:
            ``(A) Veterans who have received intensive services.
            ``(B) Veterans who did not receive intensive services but 
        who otherwise received services under this chapter.
            ``(C) Veterans who did not seek or receive services under 
        this chapter.
    ``(3) The study required by this subsection shall include the 
collection, for each individual who participates in the study, of the 
following information:
            ``(A) The average number of months such individual served 
        on active duty.
            ``(B) The disability ratings of such individual.
            ``(C) Any unemployment benefits received by such 
        individual.
            ``(D) The average number of months such individual was 
        employed during the year covered by the report.
            ``(E) The average annual starting and ending salaries of 
        any such individual who was employed during the year covered by 
        the report.
            ``(F) The average annual income of such individual.
            ``(G) The average total household income of such individual 
        for the year covered by the report.
            ``(H) The percentage of such individuals who own their 
        principal residences.
            ``(I) The employment status of such individual.
            ``(J) In the case of such an individual who received 
        services under this chapter, whether the individual believes 
        that any service provided by a disabled veterans' outreach 
        program specialist or local veterans' employment representative 
        helped the individual to become employed.
            ``(K) In the case of such an individual who believes such a 
        service helped the individual to become employed, whether--
                    ``(i) the individual retained the position of 
                employment for a period of one year or longer; and
                    ``(ii) the individual believes such a service 
                helped the individual to secure a higher wage or 
                salary.
            ``(L) The conditions under which such individual was 
        discharged or released from the Armed Forces.
            ``(M) Whether such individual has used any educational 
        assistance to which the individual is entitled under this 
        title.
            ``(N) Whether such individual has participated in a 
        rehabilitation program under chapter 31 of this title.
            ``(O) Whether such individual had contact with a One-Stop 
        Career Center employee while attending a workshop or job fair 
        under the Transition GPS Program of the Department of Defense.
            ``(P) Demographic information about such individual.
            ``(Q) Such other information as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    ``(b) Annual Report.--(1) By not later than July 1 of each year 
covered by the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on the outcomes of the study during the preceding year.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall include in each report submitted under 
paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(A) Information with respect to job fairs attended by 
        One-Stop Career Center employees at which the employees had 
        contact with a veteran, including, for the year preceding the 
        year in which the report is submitted, the following:
                    ``(i) The number of job fairs attended by One-Stop 
                Career Center employees at which the employees had 
                contact with a veteran.
                    ``(ii) The number of veterans contacted at each 
                such job fair.
            ``(B) Such information as the Secretary determines is 
        necessary to determine the long-term outcomes of the 
        individuals in the groups described in subsection (a)(2).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``4115. Longitudinal study of job counseling, training, and placement 
                            service for veterans.''.

                      TITLE VI--HOMELESS VETERANS

                 Subtitle A--Homeless Matters Generally

SEC. 601. EXPANSION OF DEFINITION OF HOMELESS VETERAN FOR PURPOSES OF 
              BENEFITS UNDER THE LAWS ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Section 2002(1) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``in section 103(a) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 11302(a))'' and inserting ``in subsection (a) or (b) of 
section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 
11302)''.

SEC. 602. INCREASED PER DIEM PAYMENTS FOR TRANSITIONAL HOUSING 
              ASSISTANCE THAT BECOMES PERMANENT HOUSING FOR HOMELESS 
              VETERANS.

    Section 2012(a)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (D) as 
        subparagraphs (C) through (E), respectively;
            (2) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated, by striking ``in 
        subparagraph (D)'' and inserting ``in subparagraph (E)'';
            (3) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated, by striking 
        ``under subparagraph (B)'' and inserting ``under subparagraph 
        (C)'';
            (4) in subparagraph (E), as redesignated, by striking ``in 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C)'' and inserting ``in subparagraphs 
        (C) and (D)''; and
            (5) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) by striking ``The rate'' and inserting ``Except 
                as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B), the rate''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``under subparagraph (B)'' and all 
                that follows through the end and inserting the 
                following: ``under subparagraph (C).
    ``(B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), in no case may the rate 
determined under this paragraph exceed the rate authorized for State 
homes for domiciliary care under subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 1741 
of this title, as the Secretary may increase from time to time under 
subsection (c) of that section.
    ``(ii) In the case of services furnished to a homeless veteran who 
is placed in housing that will become permanent housing for the veteran 
upon termination of the furnishing of such services to such veteran, 
the maximum rate of per diem authorized under this section is 150 
percent of the rate authorized for State homes for domiciliary care 
under subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 1741 of this title, as the 
Secretary may increase from time to time under subsection (c) of that 
section.''.

SEC. 603. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR SERVICES UNDER HOMELESS 
              VETERANS REINTEGRATION PROGRAMS.

    Section 2021(a) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``reintegration of homeless veterans into the labor force.'' 
and inserting the following: ``reintegration into the labor force of--
''
            ``(1) homeless veterans;
            ``(2) veterans participating in the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs supported housing program for which rental assistance 
        is provided pursuant to section 8(o)(19) of the United States 
        Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 1437f(o)(19));
            ``(3) Native Americans (as defined in section 3765 of this 
        title) who are veterans and receiving assistance under the 
        Native American Housing Assistance and Self Determination Act 
        of 1996 (25 U.S.C. 4101 et seq.); and
            ``(4) veterans who are transitioning from being 
        incarcerated.''.

SEC. 604. PROGRAM TO IMPROVE RETENTION OF HOUSING BY FORMERLY HOMELESS 
              VETERANS AND VETERANS AT RISK OF BECOMING HOMELESS.

    (a) Program Required.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 20 of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating section 2013 as section 2014; 
                and
                    (B) by inserting after section 2012 the following 
                new section 2013:
``Sec. 2013. Program to improve retention of housing by formerly 
              homeless veterans and veterans at risk of becoming 
              homeless
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary shall carry out a program 
under which the Secretary shall provide case management services to 
improve the retention of housing by veterans who were previously 
homeless and are transitioning to permanent housing and veterans who 
are at risk of becoming homeless.
    ``(b) Grants.--(1) The Secretary shall carry out the program 
through the award of grants.
    ``(2)(A) In awarding grants under paragraph (1), the Secretary 
shall give priority to organizations that demonstrate a capability to 
provide case management services as described in subsection (a), 
particularly organizations that are successfully providing or have 
successfully provided transitional housing services using amounts 
provided by the Secretary under sections 2012 and 2061 of this title.
    ``(B) In giving priority under subparagraph (A), the Secretary 
shall give extra priority to an organization described in such 
subparagraph that--
            ``(i) voluntarily stops receiving amounts provided by the 
        Secretary under sections 2012 and 2061 of this title; and
            ``(ii) converts a facility that the organization used to 
        provide transitional housing services into a facility that the 
        organization uses to provide permanent housing that meets 
        housing quality standards established under section 8(o)(8)(B) 
        of the United States Housing Act of 1937 (42 U.S.C. 
        1437f(o)(8)(B)).
    ``(C) In any case in which a facility, with respect to which a 
person received a grant for construction, rehabilitation, or 
acquisition under section 2011 of this title, is converted as described 
in subparagraph (B)(ii), such conversion shall be considered to have 
been carried out pursuant to the needs of the Department and such 
person shall not be considered in noncompliance with the terms of such 
grant by reason of such conversion.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 20 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2013 and inserting the following 
        new items:

``2013. Program to improve retention of housing by formerly homeless 
                            veterans and veterans at risk of becoming 
                            homeless.
``2014. Authorization of appropriations.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
prescribe regulations to carry out section 2013 of such title, as added 
by subsection (a)(1)(B).
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than June 1, 2020, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the program required by section 
        2013 of such title, as added by subsection (a)(1)(B).
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include assessments of the following:
                    (A) The percentage of veterans who received case 
                management services under the program who were able to 
                retain permanent housing by the end of the program, 
                disaggregated by each recipient of a grant under such 
                section.
                    (B) The percentage of veterans who received case 
                management services under the program who were not in 
                permanent housing at the end of the program, 
                disaggregated by housing status and reason for failing 
                to retain permanent housing under the program.
                    (C) The use by veterans, who received case 
                management services under the program, of housing 
                assistance furnished by the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs, including a comparison of the use of such 
                assistance by such veterans before and after receiving 
                such services.
                    (D) An assessment of the employment status of 
                veterans who received case management services under 
                the program, including a comparison of the employment 
                status of such veterans before and after receiving such 
                services.

SEC. 605. PILOT PROGRAM ON PROVISION OF INTENSIVE CASE MANAGEMENT 
              INTERVENTIONS TO HOMELESS VETERANS WHO RECEIVE THE MOST 
              HEALTH CARE FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Pilot Program Required.--Not later than September 1, 2017, the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall commence a pilot program to assess 
the feasibility and advisability of providing intensive case management 
interventions to covered veterans.
    (b) Covered Veterans.--For purposes of the pilot program, a covered 
veteran is a veteran who is enrolled in--
            (1) the homeless registry of the Department; and
            (2) the system of annual patient enrollment established and 
        operated by the Secretary under section 1705(a) of title 38, 
        United States Code.
    (c) Location.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
        program at not fewer than six locations selected by the 
        Secretary for purposes of the pilot program as follows:
                    (A) Not fewer than three locations in cities that 
                have the largest populations of homeless veterans in 
                the United States.
                    (B) Not fewer than three locations in suburban or 
                rural settings.
            (2) Interaction and coordination with community 
        organizations.--In selecting locations under paragraph (1), the 
        Secretary shall only select locations in areas in which the 
        Secretary determines that there is a high degree of interaction 
        and coordination between the Department and community 
        organizations that provide housing and social services for 
        veterans, such as outreach, employment, and financial 
        assistance for homeless veterans, veterans at risk of becoming 
        homeless, and low-income veterans.
    (d) Provision of Intensive Case Management Interventions.--
            (1) Minimum number of veterans to receive interventions.--
        In carrying out the program at each location selected under 
        subsection (c), the Secretary shall provide intensive case 
        management interventions to not fewer than 20 covered veterans 
        at each such location who the Secretary determines are the 
        covered veterans at such location who receive the most health 
        care and related services furnished by the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs.
            (2) Nature of interventions.--The intensive case management 
        interventions provided to covered veterans under paragraph (1) 
        shall include assistance with gaining and maintaining access to 
        such housing and services, including benefits and services to 
        which covered veterans may be entitled or eligible under the 
        laws administered by the Secretary, as may be necessary to 
        improve the stability of their housing and the appropriateness 
        of the health care that they receive.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2019, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
        the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
        of Representatives a report on the pilot program carried out 
        under this section.
            (2) Contents.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include assessments of the following:
                    (A) The types and frequencies of intensive case 
                management interventions provided under the pilot 
                program.
                    (B) The housing status of each veteran who received 
                an intensive case management intervention under the 
                pilot program.
                    (C) The employment status of each veteran who 
                received an intensive case management intervention 
                under the pilot program, including a comparison of the 
                employment status of such veteran before and after 
                receiving such intervention.
                    (D) The use by veterans who received intensive case 
                management interventions under the pilot program of 
                health care and related services furnished by the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs and the costs incurred 
                by the Department in furnishing such care and services, 
                including a comparison of the use by such veterans of 
                such care and services and the costs incurred from 
                furnishing such care and services before and after 
                receiving such interventions.
                    (E) The number of veterans who received intensive 
                case management interventions under the pilot program, 
                disaggregated by whether the intensive case management 
                intervention was provided in a location described in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (c)(1).
                    (F) The costs incurred by the Department in 
                carrying out the pilot program, disaggregated by 
                provision of intensive case management interventions in 
                locations described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
                such subsection.
                    (G) An estimate of the costs the Department would 
                have incurred for the provision of health care and 
                associated services to covered veterans but for the 
                provision of intensive case management interventions 
                under the pilot program, disaggregated by provision of 
                intensive case management interventions in locations 
                described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection 
                (c)(1).

SEC. 606. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL CENTER ON HOMELESSNESS AMONG 
              VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter VII of chapter 20 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2067. National Center on Homelessness Among Veterans
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The Secretary shall establish and operate a 
center to carry out the functions described in subsection (b).
    ``(2) The center established under paragraph (1) shall be known as 
the `National Center on Homelessness Among Veterans'.
    ``(3) To the degree practicable, the Secretary shall operate the 
center established under paragraph (1) independently of the other 
programs of the Department that address homelessness among veterans.
    ``(b) Functions.--The functions described in this subsection are as 
follows:
            ``(1) To carry out and promote research into the causes and 
        contributing factors to veteran homelessness.
            ``(2) To assess the effectiveness of programs of the 
        Department to meet the needs of homeless veterans.
            ``(3) To identify and disseminate best practices with 
        regard to housing stabilization, income support, employment 
        assistance, community partnerships, and such other matters as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate with respect to addressing 
        veteran homelessness.
            ``(4) To integrate evidence-based and best practices, 
        policies, and programs into programs of the Department for 
        homeless veterans and veterans at risk of homelessness and to 
        ensure that the staff of the Department and community partners 
        can implement such practices, policies, and programs.
            ``(5) To serve as a resource center for, and promote and 
        seek to coordinate the exchange of information regarding, all 
        research and training activities carried out by the Department 
        and by other Federal and non-Federal entities with respect to 
        veteran homelessness.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 20 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2066 the following new item:

``2067. National Center on Homelessness Among Veterans.''.

SEC. 607. ADMINISTRATIVE IMPROVEMENTS TO GRANT AND PER DIEM PROGRAMS OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 2012 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1), in the matter before subparagraph 
        (A), by inserting ``and except as otherwise provided in this 
        section'' after ``such purpose''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Review and Conditional Renewal.--(1) Each year, the Secretary 
shall review each grant recipient and eligible entity that received a 
per diem payment under this section for a service furnished to a 
veteran during the one-year period preceding the review to evaluate the 
performance of the grant recipient or eligible entity during that 
period with respect to--
            ``(A) the success of the grant recipient or eligible entity 
        in assisting veterans to obtain, transition into, and retain 
        permanent housing; and
            ``(B) increasing the income of veterans, whether by helping 
        veterans obtain employment or by helping veterans obtain 
        income-related benefits to which such veterans may be eligible 
        or entitled.
    ``(2) For any grant recipient or eligible entity whose performance 
was evaluated for a year under paragraph (1), the Secretary may only 
provide per diem under this section to that grant recipient or eligible 
entity in the following year if the Secretary determines that such 
performance merits continued receipt of per diem under this section.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall establish uniform performance targets 
throughout the United States for all grant recipients and eligible 
entities that receive per diem payments under this section for purposes 
of evaluating the performance of each such grant recipient and eligible 
entity under this subsection.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) Uniform performance targets.--Not later than one year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
        shall establish uniform performance targets pursuant to 
        paragraph (3) of section 2012(e) of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by subsection (a)(2).
            (2) Review of grant recipients and eligible entities.--The 
        Secretary shall complete the first review of each grant 
        recipient and eligible entity pursuant to paragraph (1) of such 
        section, as so added, not later than two years after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 608. PARTNERSHIPS WITH PUBLIC AND PRIVATE ENTITIES TO PROVIDE 
              LEGAL SERVICES TO HOMELESS VETERANS AND VETERANS AT RISK 
              OF HOMELESSNESS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 20 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2022 the following new section:
``Sec. 2022A. Partnerships with public and private entities to provide 
              legal services to homeless veterans and veterans at risk 
              of homelessness
    ``(a) Partnerships Authorized.--Subject to the availability of 
funds for that purpose, the Secretary may enter into partnerships with 
public or private entities, through the award of grants or the use of 
cooperative agreements, to fund a portion of the general legal services 
specified in subsection (c) that are provided by such entities to 
homeless veterans and veterans at risk of homelessness.
    ``(b) Locations.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure that, to the 
extent practicable, partnerships under this section are made with 
entities equitably distributed across the geographic regions of the 
United States, including rural communities, tribal lands of the United 
States, Native Americans, and tribal organizations.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the terms `Native American' and `tribal 
organization' have the meanings given such terms in section 3765 of 
this title.
    ``(c) Legal Services.--Legal services specified in this subsection 
include legal services provided by public or private entities that 
address the needs of homeless veterans and veterans at risk of 
homelessness, such as the following:
            ``(1) Legal services related to housing, including eviction 
        defense and representation in landlord-tenant cases.
            ``(2) Legal services related to family law, including 
        assistance in court proceedings for child support, divorce, and 
        estate planning.
            ``(3) Legal services related to income support, including 
        assistance in obtaining public benefits.
            ``(4) Legal services related to criminal defense, including 
        defense in matters symptomatic of homelessness, such as 
        outstanding warrants, fines, and driver's license revocation, 
        to reduce recidivism and facilitate the overcoming of reentry 
        obstacles in employment or housing.
    ``(d) Consultation.--In developing and carrying out partnerships 
under this section, the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, 
consult with public and private entities--
            ``(1) for assistance in identifying and contacting 
        organizations described in subsection (c); and
            ``(2) to coordinate appropriate outreach relationships with 
        such organizations.
    ``(e) Reports.--The Secretary may require entities that have 
entered into partnerships under this section to submit to the Secretary 
periodic reports on legal services provided to homeless veterans and 
veterans at risk of homelessness pursuant to such partnerships.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 20 of such title is amended by adding after the item relating 
to section 2022 the following new item:

``2022A. Partnerships with public and private entities to provide legal 
                            services to homeless veterans and veterans 
                            at risk of homelessness.''.

SEC. 609. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES STUDY ON HOMELESS 
              VETERANS PROGRAMS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall--
            (1) complete a study of programs of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs that provide assistance to homeless veterans; 
        and
            (2) submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the findings of the Comptroller 
        General with respect to the study required by paragraph (1).
    (b) Elements.--The study required by subsection (a)(1) shall 
include the following:
            (1) An assessment of whether programs described in 
        subsection (a) are meeting the needs of veterans who are 
        eligible for assistance provided by such programs, including 
        any gaps or duplication in the provision of services.
            (2) A review of recent efforts of the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs to improve the privacy, safety, and security of female 
        veterans receiving assistance from such programs.

SEC. 610. REQUIREMENT FOR DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO ASSESS 
              COMPREHENSIVE SERVICE PROGRAMS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall--
            (1) assess and measure the capacity of programs for which 
        entities receive grants under section 2011 of title 38, United 
        States Code, or per diem payments under section 2012 or 2061 of 
        such title; and
            (2) assess such programs with respect to--
                    (A) how well they achieve their stated goals at a 
                national level;
                    (B) placements in permanent housing;
                    (C) placements in employment; and
                    (D) increases in the regular income of participants 
                in the programs.
    (b) Assessment at National and Local Levels.--In assessing and 
measuring under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall develop and use 
tools to examine the capacity of programs described in such subsection 
at both the national and local level in order to assess the following:
            (1) Whether sufficient capacity exists to meet the needs of 
        homeless veterans in each geographic area.
            (2) Whether existing capacity meets the needs of the 
        subpopulations of homeless veterans located in each geographic 
        area.
            (3) The amount of capacity that recipients of grants under 
        sections 2011 and 2061 and per diem payments under section 2012 
        of such title have to provide services for which the recipients 
        are eligible to receive per diem under section 
        2012(a)(2)(B)(ii) of title 38, United States Code, as added by 
        section 602(5)(B).
    (c) Consideration of Other Resources.--In assessing and measuring 
programs under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall consider the 
availability to such programs of resources made available to such 
programs and to homeless veterans, including resources provided by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs and by entities other than the 
Department.
    (d) Use of Information.--The Secretary shall use the information 
collected under this section as follows:
            (1) To set specific goals to ensure that programs described 
        in subsection (a) are effectively serving the needs of homeless 
        veterans.
            (2) To assess whether programs described in subsection (a) 
        are meeting goals set under paragraph (1).
            (3) To inform funding allocations for programs described in 
        subsection (a).
            (4) To improve the referral of homeless veterans to 
        programs described in subsection (a).
    (e) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which the 
assessment required by subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a report 
on such assessment and such recommendations for legislative and 
administrative action as the Secretary may have to improve the programs 
and per diem payments described in subsection (a).

SEC. 611. REPORT ON OUTREACH RELATING TO INCREASING THE AMOUNT OF 
              HOUSING AVAILABLE TO VETERANS.

    Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report describing and assessing the 
outreach conducted by the Secretary to realtors, landlords, property 
management companies, and developers to educate them about the housing 
needs of veterans and the benefits of having veterans as tenants.

       Subtitle B--Eligibility of Homeless Veterans for Benefits

SEC. 621. WAIVER OF MINIMUM PERIOD OF CONTINUOUS ACTIVE DUTY IN ARMED 
              FORCES FOR CERTAIN BENEFITS FOR HOMELESS VETERANS.

    Section 5303A(b)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) and (G) as 
        subparagraphs (G) and (H), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
        subparagraph (F):
            ``(F) to benefits under section 2011, 2012, 2013, 2044, or 
        2061 of this title;''.

SEC. 622. AUTHORIZATION TO FURNISH CERTAIN BENEFITS TO HOMELESS 
              VETERANS WITH DISCHARGES OR RELEASES UNDER OTHER THAN 
              HONORABLE CONDITIONS.

    Section 5303(d) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``not apply to any war-risk insurance'' and 
        inserting the following: ``not apply to the following:
            ``(1) Any war-risk insurance''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(2) Benefits under section 2011, 2012, 2013, 2044, or 
        2061 of this title (except for benefits for individuals 
        discharged or dismissed from the Armed Forces by reason of the 
        sentence of a general court-martial).''.

SEC. 623. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF VETERAN FOR PURPOSES OF 
              PROVIDING CERTAIN BENEFITS TO HOMELESS VETERANS.

    Section 2002 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``In this chapter'' and inserting ``(a) In 
        General.--In this chapter''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Veteran Defined.--(1) Notwithstanding section 101(2) of this 
title and except as provided in paragraph (2), for purposes of sections 
2011, 2012, 2013, 2044, and 2061 of this title, the term `veteran' 
means a person who served in the active military, naval, or air 
service, regardless of length of service, and who was discharged or 
released therefrom.
    ``(2) For purposes of paragraph (1), the term `veteran' excludes a 
person who--
            ``(A) received a dishonorable discharge from the Armed 
        Forces; or
            ``(B) was discharged or dismissed from the Armed Forces by 
        reason of the sentence of a general court-martial.''.

SEC. 624. TRAINING OF PERSONNEL OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
              AND GRANT RECIPIENTS.

    The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct a program of 
training and education to ensure that the following persons are aware 
of and implement this subtitle and the amendments made by this 
subtitle:
            (1) Personnel of the Department of Veterans Affairs who are 
        supporting or administering a program under chapter 20 of title 
        38, United States Code.
            (2) Recipients of grants or other amounts for purposes of 
        carrying out such a program.

SEC. 625. AUTHORIZATION OF PER DIEM PAYMENTS FOR FURNISHING CARE TO 
              DEPENDENTS OF CERTAIN HOMELESS VETERANS.

    Section 2012(a) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) Services for which a recipient of a grant under section 2011 
of this title (or an entity described in paragraph (1)) may receive per 
diem payments under this subsection may include furnishing care for a 
dependent of a homeless veteran who is under the care of such homeless 
veteran while such homeless veteran receives services from the grant 
recipient (or entity).''.

SEC. 626. REGULATIONS.

    Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall prescribe regulations, 
including such modifications to section 3.12 of title 38, Code of 
Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation), as the Secretary 
considers appropriate, to ensure that the Department of Veterans 
Affairs is in full compliance with this subtitle and the amendments 
made by this subtitle.

SEC. 627. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This subtitle and the amendments made by this subtitle shall apply 
to individuals seeking benefits under chapter 20 of title 38, United 
States Code, before, on, and after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

     TITLE VII--UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS

SEC. 701. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY INCREASE IN NUMBER OF JUDGES ON UNITED 
              STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (i)(2) of section 7253 of title 38, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``January 1, 2013'' and 
inserting ``January 1, 2021''.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than June 30, 2020, the chief 
        judge of the United States Court of Appeals for Veterans Claims 
        shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives a report on the temporary expansions of the 
        Court under section 7253 of title 38, United States Code.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of the effect of the expansions 
                on ensuring appeals are handled in a timely manner.
                    (B) A description of the ways in which the 
                complexity levels of the appeals acted on by the Court 
                may have changed based on service during recent 
                conflicts compared to those based on service from 
                previous eras.
                    (C) A recommendation on whether the number of 
                judges should be adjusted at the end of the temporary 
                expansion period, including statistics, projections, 
                trend analyses, and other information to support the 
                recommendation.

SEC. 702. LIFE INSURANCE PROGRAM RELATING TO JUDGES OF UNITED STATES 
              COURT OF APPEALS FOR VETERANS CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 7281 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) For purposes of chapter 87 of title 5, a judge who is in 
regular active service and a judge who is retired under section 7296 of 
this title or under chapter 83 or 84 of title 5 shall be treated as an 
employee described in section 8701(a)(5) of title 5.
    ``(k) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Court may pay 
on behalf of its judges, who are age 65 or older, any increase in the 
cost of Federal Employees' Group Life Insurance imposed after April 24, 
1999, including any expenses generated by such payments, as authorized 
by the chief judge of the Court in a manner consistent with such 
payment authorized by the Judicial Conference of the United States 
pursuant to section 604(a)(5) of title 28.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to any payment made on or after the first day of the 
first applicable pay period beginning on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 703. VOLUNTARY CONTRIBUTIONS TO ENLARGE SURVIVORS' ANNUITY.

    Section 7297 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(p)(1) A covered judge who makes an election under subsection (b) 
may purchase, in 3-month increments, up to an additional year of 
service credit for each year of Federal judicial service completed, 
under the terms set forth in this section.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `covered judge' means any of the 
following:
            ``(A) A judge in regular active service.
            ``(B) A retired judge who is a recall-eligible retired 
        judge pursuant to subsection (a) of section 7257 of this title.
            ``(C) A retired judge who would be a recall-eligible 
        retired judge pursuant to subsection (a) of section 7257 but 
        for--
                    ``(i) meeting the aggregate recall service 
                requirements under subsection (b)(3) of such section; 
                or
                    ``(ii) being permanently disabled as described by 
                subsection (b)(4) of such section.''.

SEC. 704. SELECTION OF CHIEF JUDGE OF UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
              FOR VETERANS CLAIMS.

    (a) In General.--Section 7253(d) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'';
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as 
                subparagraph (C); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the 
                following new subparagraph (B):
            ``(B) have at least three years remaining in term of 
        office; and''; and
            (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) In any case in which there is no judge of the Court in 
regular active service who meets the requirements under paragraph (1), 
the judge of the Court in regular active service who is senior in 
commission and meets subparagraph (A) or (B) and subparagraph (C) of 
paragraph (1) shall act as the chief judge.
    ``(B) In any case under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph in which 
there is no judge of the Court in regular active service who meets 
subparagraph (A) or (B) and subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1), the 
judge of the Court in regular active service who is senior in 
commission and meets subparagraph (C) shall act as the chief judge.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to the selection of a chief judge occurring on or 
after January 1, 2020.

                      TITLE VIII--BURIAL BENEFITS

SEC. 801. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR MEDALLIONS.

    Section 2306(d)(4) of title 38, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(4)(A) In lieu of furnishing a headstone or marker under this 
subsection to a deceased individual described in subparagraph (B), the 
Secretary may furnish, upon request, a medallion or other device of a 
design determined by the Secretary to signify the deceased individual's 
status as a veteran, to be attached to a headstone or marker furnished 
at private expense.
    ``(B) A deceased individual described in this subsection is an 
individual who--
            ``(i) served in the Armed Forces on or after April 6, 1917; 
        and
            ``(ii) is eligible for a headstone or marker furnished 
        under paragraph (1) (or would be so eligible but for the date 
        of the death of the individual).''.

SEC. 802. INURNMENT OF CREMATED REMAINS IN ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY 
              OF CERTAIN PERSONS WHOSE SERVICE IS DEEMED TO BE ACTIVE 
              SERVICE.

    (a) In General.--Section 2410 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary of the Army shall ensure that, under such 
regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, the cremated remains of any 
person described in paragraph (2) are eligible for above ground 
inurnment in Arlington National Cemetery with military honors in 
accordance with section 1491 of title 10.
    ``(2) A person described in this paragraph is a person whose 
service has been determined to be active duty service pursuant to 
section 401 of the GI Bill Improvement Act of 1977 (Public Law 95-202; 
38 U.S.C. 106 note) as of the date of the enactment of this Act.''.
    (b) Applicability.--
            (1) In general.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
        apply with respect to--
                    (A) the remains of a person that are not formally 
                interred or inurned as of the date of the enactment of 
                this Act; and
                    (B) a person who dies on or after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Formally interred or inurned defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term ``formally interred or inurned'' means 
        interred or inurned in a cemetery, crypt, mausoleum, 
        columbarium, niche, or other similar formal location.

SEC. 803. REPORT ON CAPACITY OF ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the Committees on 
Veterans' Affairs and the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate a report on the interment and inurnment 
capacity of Arlington National Cemetery, including--
            (1) the estimated date that the Secretary determines the 
        cemetery will reach maximum interment and inurnment capacity; 
        and
            (2) in light of the unique and iconic meaning of the 
        cemetery to the United States, recommendations for legislative 
        actions and nonlegislative options that the Secretary 
        determines necessary to ensure that the maximum interment and 
        inurnment capacity of the cemetery is not reached until well 
        into the future, including such actions and options with 
        respect to--
                    (A) redefining eligibility criteria for interment 
                and inurnment in the cemetery; and
                    (B) considerations for additional expansion 
                opportunities beyond the current boundaries of the 
                cemetery.

SEC. 804. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS STUDY ON MATTERS RELATING TO 
              BURIAL OF UNCLAIMED REMAINS OF VETERANS IN NATIONAL 
              CEMETERIES.

    (a) Study and Report Required.--Not later than one year after the 
effective date specified in subsection (d), the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall--
            (1) complete a study on matters relating to the interring 
        of unclaimed remains of veterans in national cemeteries under 
        the control of the National Cemetery Administration; and
            (2) submit to Congress a report on the findings of the 
        Secretary with respect to the study required under paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Matters Studied.--The matters studied under subsection (a)(1) 
shall include the following:
            (1) Determining the scope of issues relating to unclaimed 
        remains of veterans, including an estimate of the number of 
        unclaimed remains of veterans.
            (2) Assessing the effectiveness of the procedures of the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs for working with persons or 
        entities having custody of unclaimed remains to facilitate 
        interment of unclaimed remains of veterans in national 
        cemeteries under the control of the National Cemetery 
        Administration.
            (3) Assessing State and local laws that affect the ability 
        of the Secretary to inter unclaimed remains of veterans in 
        national cemeteries under the control of the National Cemetery 
        Administration.
            (4) Developing recommendations for such legislative or 
        administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Methodology.--
            (1) Number of unclaimed remains.--In estimating the number 
        of unclaimed remains of veterans under subsection (b)(1), the 
        Secretary may review such subset of applicable entities as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate, including a subset of funeral 
        homes and coroner offices that possess unclaimed veterans 
        remains.
            (2) Assessment of state and local laws.--In assessing State 
        and local laws under subsection (b)(3), the Secretary may 
        assess such sample of applicable State and local laws as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate in lieu of reviewing all 
        applicable State and local laws.
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall take effect on the date 
that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.

                        TITLE IX--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 901. AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO CERTAIN LEASES AT THE DEPARTMENT OF 
              VETERANS AFFAIRS WEST LOS ANGELES CAMPUS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out 
leases described in subsection (b) at the Department of Veterans 
Affairs West Los Angeles Campus in Los Angeles, California (hereinafter 
in this section referred to as the ``Campus'').
    (b) Leases Described.--Leases described in this subsection are the 
following:
            (1) Any enhanced-use lease of real property under 
        subchapter V of chapter 81 of title 38, United States Code, for 
        purposes of providing supportive housing, as that term is 
        defined in section 8161(3) of such title, that principally 
        benefit veterans and their families.
            (2) Any lease of real property for a term not to exceed 50 
        years to a third party to provide services that principally 
        benefit veterans and their families and that are limited to one 
        or more of the following purposes:
                    (A) The promotion of health and wellness, including 
                nutrition and spiritual wellness.
                    (B) Education.
                    (C) Vocational training, skills building, or other 
                training related to employment.
                    (D) Peer activities, socialization, or physical 
                recreation.
                    (E) Assistance with legal issues and Federal 
                benefits.
                    (F) Volunteerism.
                    (G) Family support services, including child care.
                    (H) Transportation.
                    (I) Services in support of one or more of the 
                purposes specified in subparagraphs (A) through (H).
            (3) A lease of real property for a term not to exceed 10 
        years to The Regents of the University of California, a 
        corporation organized under the laws of the State of 
        California, on behalf of its University of California, Los 
        Angeles (UCLA) campus (hereinafter in this section referred to 
        as ``The Regents''), if--
                    (A) the lease is consistent with the master plan 
                described in subsection (g);
                    (B) the provision of services to veterans is the 
                predominant focus of the activities of The Regents at 
                the Campus during the term of the lease;
                    (C) The Regents expressly agrees to provide, during 
                the term of the lease and to an extent and in a manner 
                that the Secretary considers appropriate, additional 
                services and support (for which The Regents is not 
                compensated by the Secretary or through an existing 
                medical affiliation agreement) that--
                            (i) principally benefit veterans and their 
                        families, including veterans who are severely 
                        disabled, women, aging, or homeless; and
                            (ii) may consist of activities relating to 
                        the medical, clinical, therapeutic, dietary, 
                        rehabilitative, legal, mental, spiritual, 
                        physical, recreational, research, and 
                        counseling needs of veterans and their families 
                        or any of the purposes specified in any of 
                        subparagraphs (A) through (I) of paragraph (2); 
                        and
                    (D) The Regents maintains records documenting the 
                value of the additional services and support that The 
                Regents provides pursuant to subparagraph (C) for the 
                duration of the lease and makes such records available 
                to the Secretary.
    (c) Limitation on Land-Sharing Agreements.--The Secretary may not 
carry out any land-sharing agreement pursuant to section 8153 of title 
38, United States Code, at the Campus unless such agreement--
            (1) provides additional health-care resources to the 
        Campus; and
            (2) benefits veterans and their families other than from 
        the generation of revenue for the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs.
    (d) Revenues From Leases at the Campus.--Any funds received by the 
Secretary under a lease described in subsection (b) shall be credited 
to the applicable Department medical facilities account and shall be 
available, without fiscal year limitation and without further 
appropriation, exclusively for the renovation and maintenance of the 
land and facilities at the Campus.
    (e) Easements.--
            (1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law 
        (other than Federal laws relating to environmental and historic 
        preservation), pursuant to section 8124 of title 38, United 
        States Code, the Secretary may grant easements or rights-of-way 
        on, above, or under lands at the Campus to--
                    (A) any local or regional public transportation 
                authority to access, construct, use, operate, maintain, 
                repair, or reconstruct public mass transit facilities, 
                including, fixed guideway facilities and transportation 
                centers; and
                    (B) the State of California, County of Los Angeles, 
                City of Los Angeles, or any agency or political 
                subdivision thereof, or any public utility company 
                (including any company providing electricity, gas, 
                water, sewage, or telecommunication services to the 
                public) for the purpose of providing such public 
                utilities.
            (2) Improvements.--Any improvements proposed pursuant to an 
        easement or right-of-way authorized under paragraph (1) shall 
        be subject to such terms and conditions as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate.
            (3) Termination.--Any easement or right-of-way authorized 
        under paragraph (1) shall be terminated upon the abandonment or 
        nonuse of the easement or right-of-way and all right, title, 
        and interest in the land covered by the easement or right-of-
        way shall revert to the United States.
    (f) Prohibition on Sale of Property.--Notwithstanding section 8164 
of title 38, United States Code, the Secretary may not sell or 
otherwise convey to a third party fee simple title to any real property 
or improvements to real property made at the Campus.
    (g) Consistency With Master Plan.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
each lease carried out under this section is consistent with the draft 
master plan approved by the Secretary on January 28, 2016, or successor 
master plans.
    (h) Compliance With Certain Laws.--
            (1) Laws relating to leases and land use.--If the Inspector 
        General of the Department of Veterans Affairs determines, as 
        part of an audit report or evaluation conducted by the 
        Inspector General, that the Department is not in compliance 
        with all Federal laws relating to leases and land use at the 
        Campus, or that significant mismanagement has occurred with 
        respect to leases or land use at the Campus, the Secretary may 
        not enter into any lease or land-sharing agreement at the 
        Campus, or renew any such lease or land-sharing agreement that 
        is not in compliance with such laws, until the Secretary 
        certifies to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, 
        the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives who represents the area in which the Campus is 
        located that all recommendations included in the audit report 
        or evaluation have been implemented.
            (2) Compliance of particular leases.--Except as otherwise 
        expressly provided by this section, no lease may be entered 
        into or renewed under this section unless the lease complies 
        with chapter 33 of title 41, United States Code, and all 
        Federal laws relating to environmental and historic 
        preservation.
    (i) Community Veterans Engagement Board.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a 
        Community Veterans Engagement Board (in this subsection 
        referred to as the ``Board'') for the Campus to coordinate 
        locally with the Department of Veterans Affairs to--
                    (A) identify the goals of the community; and
                    (B) provide advice and recommendations to the 
                Secretary to improve services and outcomes for 
                veterans, members of the Armed Forces, and the families 
                of such veterans and members.
            (2) Members.--The Board shall be comprised of a number of 
        members that the Secretary determines appropriate, of which not 
        less than 50 percent shall be veterans. The nonveteran members 
        shall be family members of veterans, veteran advocates, service 
        providers, or stakeholders.
            (3) Community input.--In carrying out subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) of paragraph (1), the Board shall--
                    (A) provide the community opportunities to 
                collaborate and communicate with the Board, including 
                by conducting public forums on the Campus; and
                    (B) focus on local issues regarding the Department 
                that are identified by the community, including with 
                respect to health care, benefits, and memorial services 
                at the Campus.
    (j) Notification and Reports.--
            (1) Congressional notification.--With respect to each lease 
        or land-sharing agreement intended to be entered into or 
        renewed at the Campus, the Secretary shall notify the Committee 
        on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each Member of the 
        Senate and the House of Representatives who represents the area 
        in which the Campus is located of the intent of the Secretary 
        to enter into or renew the lease or land-sharing agreement not 
        later than 45 days before entering into or renewing the lease 
        or land-sharing agreement.
            (2) Annual report.--Not later than one year after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than 
        annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on 
        Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives, and each 
        Member of the Senate and the House of Representatives who 
        represents the area in which the Campus is located an annual 
        report evaluating all leases and land-sharing agreements 
        carried out at the Campus, including--
                    (A) an evaluation of the management of the revenue 
                generated by the leases; and
                    (B) the records described in subsection (b)(3)(D).
            (3) Inspector general report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than each of two years 
                and five years after the date of the enactment of this 
                Act, and as determined necessary by the Inspector 
                General of the Department of Veterans Affairs 
                thereafter, the Inspector General shall submit to the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate, the 
                Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives, and each Member of the Senate and the 
                House of Representatives who represents the area in 
                which the Campus is located a report on all leases 
                carried out at the Campus and the management by the 
                Department of the use of land at the Campus, including 
                an assessment of the efforts of the Department to 
                implement the master plan described in subsection (g) 
                with respect to the Campus.
                    (B) Consideration of annual report.--In preparing 
                each report required by subparagraph (A), the Inspector 
                General shall take into account the most recent report 
                submitted to Congress by the Secretary under paragraph 
                (2).
    (k) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as a limitation on the authority of the Secretary to enter 
into other agreements regarding the Campus that are authorized by law 
and not inconsistent with this section.
    (l) Principally Benefit Veterans and Their Families Defined.--In 
this section the term ``principally benefit veterans and their 
families'', with respect to services provided by a person or entity 
under a lease of property or land-sharing agreement--
            (1) means services--
                    (A) provided exclusively to veterans and their 
                families; or
                    (B) that are designed for the particular needs of 
                veterans and their families, as opposed to the general 
                public, and any benefit of those services to the 
                general public is distinct from the intended benefit to 
                veterans and their families; and
            (2) excludes services in which the only benefit to veterans 
        and their families is the generation of revenue for the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (m) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Prohibition on disposal of property.--Section 224(a) of 
        the Military Construction and Veterans Affairs and Related 
        Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161; 121 
        Stat. 2272) is amended by striking ``The Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs'' and inserting ``Except as authorized under the 
        Veterans First Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs''.
            (2) Enhanced-use leases.--Section 8162(c) of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by inserting ``, other than an 
        enhanced-use lease under the Veterans First Act,'' before 
        ``shall be considered''.

SEC. 902. RESTORATION OF PRIOR REPORTING FEE MULTIPLIERS.

    During the nine-year period beginning on September 26, 2016, the 
second sentence of subsection (c) of section 3684 of title 38, United 
States Code, shall be applied--
            (1) by substituting ``$8'' for ``$12''; and
            (2) by substituting ``$12'' for ``$15''.

SEC. 903. REPEAL INAPPLICABILITY OF MODIFICATION OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR 
              HOUSING TO BENEFITS UNDER LAWS ADMINISTERED BY SECRETARY 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Repeal.--Subsection (b) of section 604 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 37 U.S.C. 403 note) is repealed.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2016.

SEC. 904. OBSERVANCE OF VETERANS DAY.

    (a) Two Minutes of Silence.--Chapter 1 of title 36, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 145. Veterans Day
    ``The President shall issue each year a proclamation calling on the 
people of the United States to observe two minutes of silence on 
Veterans Day in honor of the service and sacrifice of veterans 
throughout the history of the United States, beginning at--
            ``(1) 3:11 p.m. Atlantic standard time;
            ``(2) 2:11 p.m. eastern standard time;
            ``(3) 1:11 p.m. central standard time;
            ``(4) 12:11 p.m. mountain standard time;
            ``(5) 11:11 a.m. Pacific standard time;
            ``(6) 10:11 a.m. Alaska standard time; and
            ``(7) 9:11 a.m. Hawaii-Aleutian standard time.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 1 of 
title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new item:

``145. Veterans Day.''.

SEC. 905. HONORING AS VETERANS CERTAIN PERSONS WHO PERFORMED SERVICE IN 
              THE RESERVE COMPONENTS OF THE ARMED FORCES.

    Any person who is entitled under chapter 1223 of title 10, United 
States Code, to retired pay for nonregular service or, but for age, 
would be entitled under such chapter to retired pay for nonregular 
service shall be honored as a veteran but shall not be entitled to any 
benefit by reason of this honor.

SEC. 906. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR COLLECTION OF FEES FOR HOUSING 
              LOANS GUARANTEED BY SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    Section 3729(b)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (iii), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026''; and
                    (B) in clause (iv), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026'';
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026'';
            (3) in subparagraph (C)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026''; and
            (4) in subparagraph (D)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``September 30, 
                2024'' and inserting ``October 1, 2026''.
                                                       Calendar No. 467

114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2921

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

To amend title 38, United States Code, to improve the accountability of 
employees of the Department of Veterans Affairs, to improve health care 
           and benefits for veterans, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 16, 2016

                       Reported without amendment
