[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 580 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 580

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                       January 6, 2016.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 712) to impose certain limitations on consent decrees and settlement 
agreements by agencies that require the agencies to take regulatory action in 
accordance with the terms thereof, and for other purposes. The first reading of 
the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments 
specified in this section and shall not exceed one hour, with 40 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on the Judiciary and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. 
After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-
minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for the 
purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-37. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1155) to provide for the establishment of a process for the review of 
rules and sets of rules, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on the Judiciary and the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform. After general debate 
the bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill 
are waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
