[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1380 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1380

                       To support early learning.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 19, 2015

   Mrs. Murray (for herself, Mr. Casey, Ms. Hirono, Mr. Franken, Mr. 
Markey, Mr. Schatz, Mr. Udall, Mr. Kaine, Ms. Mikulski, Mr. Murphy, Mr. 
   Durbin, Mr. Coons, Mr. Heinrich, Mr. Whitehouse, Ms. Baldwin, Ms. 
   Cantwell, Mrs. Gillibrand, Mr. Wyden, Mr. Booker, Ms. Warren, Mr. 
 Sanders, and Ms. Klobuchar) introduced the following bill; which was 
 read twice and referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
                              and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
                       To support early learning.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Strong Start for America's Children 
Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
                    TITLE I--PREKINDERGARTEN ACCESS

 Subtitle A--Access to Voluntary Prekindergarten for Low- and Moderate-
                            Income Families

Sec. 101. Purposes.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Program authorization.
Sec. 104. Allotments and reservations of funds.
Sec. 105. State eligibility criteria.
Sec. 106. State applications.
Sec. 107. State use of funds.
Sec. 108. Additional prekindergarten services.
Sec. 109. Performance measures and targets.
Sec. 110. Matching requirements.
Sec. 111. Eligible local entity applications.
Sec. 112. Required subgrant activities.
Sec. 113. Report and evaluation.
Sec. 114. Prohibition of required participation or use of funds for 
                            assessments.
Sec. 115. Coordination with Head Start programs.
Sec. 116. Technical assistance in program administration.
Sec. 117. Authorization of appropriations.
             Subtitle B--Prekindergarten Development Grants

Sec. 121. Prekindergarten development grants.
             TITLE II--EARLY LEARNING QUALITY PARTNERSHIPS

Sec. 201. Purposes.
Sec. 202. Early learning quality partnerships.
   TITLE III--AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE EDUCATION OF 
                       CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES

Sec. 301. Preschool grants.
Sec. 302. Infants and toddlers with disabilities.
 TITLE IV--MATERNAL, INFANT, AND EARLY CHILDHOOD HOME VISITING PROGRAM

Sec. 401. Sense of the Senate.

                    TITLE I--PREKINDERGARTEN ACCESS

 Subtitle A--Access to Voluntary Prekindergarten for Low- and Moderate-
                            Income Families

SEC. 101. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this subtitle are to--
            (1) establish a Federal-State partnership to provide access 
        to high-quality public prekindergarten programs for all 
        children from low-income and moderate-income families to ensure 
        that they enter kindergarten prepared for success;
            (2) broaden participation in such programs to include 
        children from additional middle-class families;
            (3) promote access to high-quality kindergarten, and high-
        quality early childhood education programs and settings for 
        children; and
            (4) increase access to appropriate supports so children 
        with disabilities and other children who need specialized 
        supports can fully participate in high-quality early education 
        programs.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Child with a disability.--The term ``child with a 
        disability'' means--
                    (A) a child with a disability, as defined in 
                section 602 of the Individuals with Disabilities 
                Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1401); or
                    (B) an infant or toddler with a disability, as 
                defined in section 632 of the Individuals with 
                Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1432).
            (2) Comprehensive early learning assessment system.--The 
        term ``comprehensive early learning assessment system''--
                    (A) means a coordinated and comprehensive system of 
                multiple assessments, each of which is valid and 
                reliable for its specified purpose and for the 
                population with which it will be used, that--
                            (i) organizes information about the process 
                        and context of young children's learning and 
                        development to help early childhood educators 
                        make informed instructional and programmatic 
                        decisions; and
                            (ii) conforms to the recommendations of the 
                        National Research Council reports on early 
                        childhood; and
                    (B) includes, at a minimum--
                            (i) child screening measures to identify 
                        children who may need follow-up services to 
                        address developmental, learning, or health 
                        needs in, at a minimum, areas of physical 
                        health, behavioral health, oral health, child 
                        development, vision, and hearing;
                            (ii) child formative assessments;
                            (iii) measures of environmental quality; 
                        and
                            (iv) measures of the quality of adult-child 
                        interactions.
            (3) Dual language learner.--The term ``dual language 
        learner'' means an individual who is limited English 
        proficient.
            (4) Early childhood education program.--The term ``early 
        childhood education program'' has the meaning given the term 
        under section 103 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1003).
            (5) Elementary school.--The term ``elementary school'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 9101 of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (6) Eligibility determination date.--The term ``eligibility 
        determination date'' means the date used to determine 
        eligibility for public elementary school in the community in 
        which the eligible local entity involved is located.
            (7) Eligible local entity.--The term ``eligible local 
        entity'' means--
                    (A) a local educational agency, including a charter 
                school or a charter management organization that acts 
                as a local educational agency, or an educational 
                service agency in partnership with a local educational 
                agency;
                    (B) an entity (including a Head Start program or 
                licensed child care setting) that carries out, 
                administers, or supports an early childhood education 
                program; or
                    (C) a consortium of entities described in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B).
            (8) Full-day.--The term ``full-day'' means a day that is--
                    (A) equivalent to a full school day at the public 
                elementary schools in a State; and
                    (B) not less than 5 hours a day.
            (9) Governor.--The term ``Governor'' means the chief 
        executive officer of a State.
            (10) High-quality prekindergarten program.--The term 
        ``high-quality prekindergarten program'' means a 
        prekindergarten program supported by an eligible local entity 
        that includes, at a minimum, the following elements based on 
        nationally recognized standards:
                    (A) Serves children who--
                            (i) are age 4 or children who are age 3 or 
                        4, by the eligibility determination date 
                        (including children who turn age 5 while 
                        attending the program); or
                            (ii) have attained the legal age for State-
                        funded prekindergarten.
                    (B) Requires high qualifications for staff, 
                including that teachers meet the requirements of 1 of 
                the following clauses:
                            (i) The teacher has a bachelor's degree in 
                        early childhood education or a related field 
                        with coursework that demonstrates competence in 
                        early childhood education.
                            (ii) The teacher--
                                    (I) has a bachelor's degree in any 
                                field;
                                    (II) has demonstrated knowledge of 
                                early childhood education by passing a 
                                State-approved assessment in early 
                                childhood education;
                                    (III) while employed as a teacher 
                                in the prekindergarten program, is 
                                engaged in on-going professional 
                                development in early childhood 
                                education for not less than 2 years; 
                                and
                                    (IV) not more than 4 years after 
                                starting employment as a teacher in the 
                                prekindergarten program, enrolls in and 
                                completes a State-approved educator 
                                preparation program in which the 
                                teacher receives training and support 
                                in early childhood education.
                            (iii) The teacher has bachelor's degree 
                        with a credential, license, or endorsement that 
                        demonstrates competence in early childhood 
                        education.
                    (C) Maintains an evidence-based maximum class size.
                    (D) Maintains an evidence-based child to 
                instructional staff ratio.
                    (E) Offers a full-day program.
                    (F) Provides developmentally appropriate learning 
                environments and evidence-based curricula that are 
                aligned with the State's early learning and development 
                standards described in section 105(1).
                    (G) Offers instructional staff salaries comparable 
                to kindergarten through grade 12 teaching staff.
                    (H) Provides for ongoing monitoring and program 
                evaluation to ensure continuous improvement.
                    (I) Offers accessible comprehensive services for 
                children that include, at a minimum--
                            (i) screenings for vision, hearing, dental, 
                        health (including mental health), and 
                        development (including early literacy and math 
                        skill development) and referrals, and 
                        assistance obtaining services, when 
                        appropriate;
                            (ii) family engagement opportunities that 
                        take into account home language, such as parent 
                        conferences (including parent input about their 
                        child's development) and support services, such 
                        as parent education, home visiting, and family 
                        literacy services;
                            (iii) nutrition services, including 
                        nutritious meals and snack options aligned with 
                        requirements set by the most recent Child and 
                        Adult Care Food Program guidelines promulgated 
                        by the Department of Agriculture as well as 
                        regular, age-appropriate, nutrition education 
                        for children and their families;
                            (iv) programs in coordination with local 
                        educational agencies and entities providing 
                        services and supports authorized under part B 
                        and part C of the Individuals with Disabilities 
                        Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1411 et seq.; 1431 et 
                        seq.) to ensure the full participation of 
                        children with disabilities;
                            (v) physical activity programs aligned with 
                        evidence-based guidelines, such as those 
                        recommended by the Institute of Medicine, and 
                        which take into account and accommodate 
                        children with disabilities;
                            (vi) additional support services, as 
                        appropriate, based on the findings of the 
                        community assessment, as described in section 
                        111(b)(4); and
                            (vii) on-site coordination, to the maximum 
                        extent practicable.
                    (J) Provides high-quality professional development 
                for all staff, including regular in-classroom 
                observation for teachers and teacher assistants by 
                individuals trained in such observation and which may 
                include evidence-based coaching.
                    (K) Meets the education performance standards in 
                effect under section 641A(a)(1)(B) of the Head Start 
                Act (42 U.S.C. 9836a(a)(1)(B)).
                    (L) Maintains evidence-based health and safety 
                standards.
                    (M) Maintains disciplinary policies that do not 
                include expulsion or suspension of participating 
                children, except as a last resort in extraordinary 
                circumstances where--
                            (i) there is a determination of a serious 
                        safety threat; and
                            (ii) policies are in place to provide 
                        appropriate alternative early educational 
                        services to expelled or suspended children 
                        while they are out of school.
            (11) Homeless child.--The term ``homeless child'' means a 
        child or youth described in section 725(2) of the McKinney-
        Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11434a(2)).
            (12) Indian tribe; tribal organization.--The terms ``Indian 
        tribe'' and ``tribal organization'' have the meanings given the 
        terms in 658P of the Child Care and Development Block Grant of 
        1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858n).
            (13) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1002).
            (14) Limited english proficient.--The term ``limited 
        English proficient'' has the meaning given the term in section 
        637 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9832).
            (15) Local educational agency; state educational agency; 
        educational service agency.--The terms ``local educational 
        agency'', ``State educational agency'', and ``educational 
        service agency'' have the meanings given the terms in section 
        9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 7801).
            (16) Migratory child.--The term ``migratory child'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 1309 of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6399).
            (17) Outlying area.--The term ``outlying area'' means each 
        of the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Republic 
        of Palau, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic 
        of the Marshall Islands.
            (18) Poverty line.--The term ``poverty line'' means the 
        official poverty line (as defined by the Office of Management 
        and Budget)--
                    (A) adjusted to reflect the percentage change in 
                the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers 
                published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the 
                Department of Labor for the most recent 12-month period 
                or other interval for which the data are available; and
                    (B) applicable to a family of the size involved.
            (19) Secondary school.--The term ``secondary school'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 9101 of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (20) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Education.
            (21) State.--Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, 
        the term ``State'' means each of the 50 States, the District of 
        Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and each of the 
        outlying areas.
            (22) State advisory council on early childhood education 
        and care.--The term ``State Advisory Council on Early Childhood 
        Education and Care'' means the State Advisory Council on Early 
        Childhood Education and Care established under section 642B(b) 
        of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9837b(b)).

SEC. 103. PROGRAM AUTHORIZATION.

    From amounts made available to carry out this subtitle, the 
Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, shall award grants to States to implement high-quality 
prekindergarten programs, consistent with the purposes of this subtitle 
described in section 101. For each fiscal year, the funds provided 
under a grant to a State shall equal the allotment determined for the 
State under section 104.

SEC. 104. ALLOTMENTS AND RESERVATIONS OF FUNDS.

    (a) Reservation.--From the amount made available each fiscal year 
to carry out this subtitle, the Secretary shall--
            (1) reserve not less than 1 percent and not more than 2 
        percent for payments to Indian tribes and tribal organizations;
            (2) reserve one-half of 1 percent for the outlying areas to 
        be distributed among the outlying areas on the basis of their 
        relative need, as determined by the Secretary in accordance 
        with the purposes of this subtitle;
            (3) reserve one-half of 1 percent for eligible local 
        entities that serve children in families who are engaged in 
        migrant or seasonal agricultural labor; and
            (4) reserve not more than 1 percent or $30,000,000, 
        whichever amount is less, for national activities, including 
        administration, technical assistance, and evaluation.
    (b) Allotments.--
            (1) In general.--From the amount made available each fiscal 
        year to carry out this subtitle and not reserved under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall make allotments to States 
        in accordance with paragraph (2) that have submitted an 
        approved application.
            (2) Allotment amount.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                Secretary shall allot the amount made available under 
                paragraph (1) for a fiscal year among the States in 
                proportion to the number of children who are age 4 who 
                reside within the State and are from families with 
                incomes at or below 200 percent of the poverty line for 
                the most recent year for which satisfactory data are 
                available, compared to the number of such children who 
                reside in all such States for that fiscal year.
                    (B) Minimum allotment amount.--No State receiving 
                an allotment under subparagraph (A) may receive less 
                than one-half of 1 percent of the total amount allotted 
                under such subparagraph.
            (3) Reallotment and carry over.--
                    (A) In general.--If one or more States do not 
                receive an allotment under this subsection for any 
                fiscal year, the Secretary may use the amount of the 
                allotment for that State or States, in such amounts as 
                the Secretary determines appropriate, for either or 
                both of the following:
                            (i) To increase the allotments of States 
                        with approved applications for the fiscal year, 
                        consistent with subparagraph (B).
                            (ii) To carry over the funds to the next 
                        fiscal year.
                    (B) Reallotment.--In increasing allotments under 
                subparagraph (A)(i), the Secretary shall allot to each 
                State with an approved application an amount that bears 
                the same relationship to the total amount to be 
                allotted under subparagraph (A)(i), as the amount the 
                State received under paragraph (2) for that fiscal year 
                bears to the amount that all States received under 
                paragraph (2) for that fiscal year.
            (4) State.--For purposes of this subsection, the term 
        ``State'' means each of the 50 States, the District of 
        Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
    (c) Flexibility.--The Secretary may make minimal adjustments to 
allotments under subsection (b), which shall neither lead to a 
significant increase or decrease in a State's allotment determined 
under subsection (b), based on a set of factors, such as the level of 
program participation and the estimated cost of the activities 
specified in the State plan under section 106(2).

SEC. 105. STATE ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA.

    A State is eligible to receive a grant under this subtitle if the 
State demonstrates to the Secretary that the State--
            (1) has established or will establish early learning and 
        development standards that--
                    (A) describe what children from birth to 
                kindergarten entry should know and be able to do;
                    (B) are universally designed and developmentally, 
                culturally, and linguistically appropriate;
                    (C) are aligned with the State's challenging 
                academic content standards and challenging student 
                academic achievement standards, as adopted under 
                section 1111(b)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(1)); and
                    (D) cover all of the essential domains of school 
                readiness, which address--
                            (i) physical well-being and motor 
                        development;
                            (ii) social and emotional development;
                            (iii) approaches to learning, including 
                        creative arts expression;
                            (iv) developmentally appropriate oral and 
                        written language and literacy development; and
                            (v) cognition and general knowledge, 
                        including early mathematics and early 
                        scientific development;
            (2) has the ability or will develop the ability to link 
        prekindergarten data with State elementary school and secondary 
        school data for the purpose of collecting longitudinal 
        information for all children participating in the State's high-
        quality prekindergarten program and any other federally funded 
        early childhood program that will remain with the child through 
        the child's public education through grade 12;
            (3) offers State-funded kindergarten for children who are 
        eligible children for that service in the State; and
            (4) has established a State Advisory Council on Early 
        Childhood Education and Care.

SEC. 106. STATE APPLICATIONS.

    To receive a grant under this subtitle, the Governor of a State, in 
consultation with the Indian tribes and tribal organizations in the 
State, if any, shall submit an application to the Secretary at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may reasonably require. At a minimum, each such application shall 
include--
            (1) an assurance that the State--
                    (A) will coordinate with and continue to 
                participate in the programs authorized under section 
                619 and part C of the Individuals with Disabilities 
                Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1419; 1431 et seq.), the Child 
                Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
                9858 et seq.), and the maternal, infant, and early 
                childhood home visiting programs funded under section 
                511 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711) for the 
                duration of the grant;
                    (B) will designate a State-level entity (such as an 
                agency or joint interagency office), selected by the 
                Governor, for the administration of the grant, which 
                shall coordinate and consult with the State educational 
                agency if the entity is not the State educational 
                agency; and
                    (C) will establish, or certify the existence of, 
                program standards for all State prekindergarten 
                programs consistent with the definition of a high-
                quality prekindergarten program under section 102;
            (2) a description of the State's plan to--
                    (A) use funds received under this subtitle and the 
                State's matching funds to provide high-quality 
                prekindergarten programs, in accordance with section 
                107(d), with open enrollment for all children in the 
                State who--
                            (i) are described in section 102(9)(A); and
                            (ii) are from families with incomes at or 
                        below 200 percent of the poverty line;
                    (B) develop or enhance a system for monitoring 
                eligible local entities that are receiving funds under 
                this subtitle for compliance with quality standards 
                developed by the State and to provide program 
                improvement support, which may be accomplished through 
                the use of a State-developed system for quality rating 
                and improvement;
                    (C) if applicable, expand participation in the 
                State's high-quality prekindergarten programs to 
                children from families with incomes above 200 percent 
                of the poverty line;
                    (D) carry out the State's comprehensive early 
                learning assessment system, or how the State plans to 
                develop such a system, ensuring that any assessments 
                are culturally, developmentally, and age-appropriate 
                and consistent with the recommendations from the study 
                on Developmental Outcomes and Assessments for Young 
                Children by the National Academy of Sciences, 
                consistent with section 649(j) of the Head Start Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 9844);
                    (E) develop, implement, and make publicly available 
                the performance measures and targets described in 
                section 109;
                    (F) increase the number of teachers with bachelor's 
                degrees in early childhood education, or with 
                bachelor's degrees in another closely related field and 
                specialized training and demonstrated competency in 
                early childhood education, including how institutions 
                of higher education will support increasing the number 
                of teachers with such degrees and training, including 
                through the use of assessments of prior learning, 
                knowledge, and skills to facilitate and expedite 
                attainment of such degrees;
                    (G) coordinate and integrate the activities funded 
                under this subtitle with Federal, State, and local 
                services and programs that support early childhood 
                education and care, including programs supported under 
                this subtitle, the Elementary and Secondary Education 
                Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), the Individuals 
                with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et 
                seq.), the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), the 
                Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9901 et 
                seq.), the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act 
                of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.), the temporary 
                assistance for needy families program under part A of 
                title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 et 
                seq.), the Race to the Top program under section 14006 
                of division A of the American Recovery and Reinvestment 
                Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5), federally funded early 
                literacy programs, the maternal, infant, and early 
                childhood home visiting programs funded under section 
                511 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711), health 
                improvements to child care funded under title XIX of 
                the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.), the 
                program under subtitle B of title VII of the McKinney-
                Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11431 et 
                seq.), the innovation fund program under section 14007 
                of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 
                (Public Law 111-5), programs authorized under part E of 
                title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 670 et 
                seq.), the Fostering Connections to Success and 
                Increasing Adoptions Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-351), 
                grants for infant and toddler care through Early Head 
                Start-Child Care Partnerships funded under the heading 
                ``children and families services programs'' under the 
                heading administration for children and families in 
                title II of division H of the Department of Health and 
                Human Services Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 
                113-76; 128 Stat. 377-378), the preschool development 
                grants program funded under the heading ``innovation 
                and improvement'' in title III of division G of the 
                Department of Education Appropriations Act, 2015 
                (Public Law 113-235; 128 Stat. 2496), and any other 
                Federal, State, or local early childhood education 
                programs used in the State;
                    (H) award subgrants to eligible local entities, and 
                in awarding such subgrants, facilitate a delivery 
                system of high-quality prekindergarten programs that 
                includes diverse providers, such as providers in 
                community-based, public school, and private settings, 
                and consider the system's impact on options for 
                families;
                    (I) in the case of a State that does not have a 
                State-determined funding mechanism for prekindergarten, 
                use objective criteria in awarding subgrants to 
                eligible local entities that will implement high-
                quality prekindergarten programs, including actions the 
                State will take to ensure that eligible local entities 
                will coordinate with local educational agencies or 
                other early learning providers, as appropriate, to 
                carry out activities to provide children served under 
                this subtitle with a successful transition from 
                preschool into kindergarten, which activities shall 
                include--
                            (i) aligning curricular objectives and 
                        instruction;
                            (ii) providing staff professional 
                        development, including opportunities for joint-
                        professional development on early learning and 
                        kindergarten through grade 3 standards, 
                        assessments, and curricula;
                            (iii) coordinating family engagement and 
                        support services; and
                            (iv) encouraging the shared use of 
                        facilities and transportation, as appropriate;
                    (J) use the State early learning and development 
                standards described in section 105(1) to address the 
                needs of dual language learners, including by 
                incorporating benchmarks related to English language 
                development;
                    (K) identify barriers, and propose solutions to 
                overcome such barriers, which may include seeking 
                assistance under section 116, in the State to 
                effectively use and integrate Federal, State, and local 
                public funds and private funds for early childhood 
                education that are available to the State on the date 
                on which the application is submitted;
                    (L) support articulation agreements (as defined in 
                section 486A of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 1093a)) between public 2-year and public 4-year 
                institutions of higher education and other credit-
                bearing professional development in the State for early 
                childhood teacher preparation programs and closely 
                related fields;
                    (M) ensure that the higher education programs in 
                the State have the capacity to prepare a workforce to 
                provide high-quality prekindergarten programs;
                    (N) support workforce development, including State 
                and local policies that support prekindergarten 
                instructional staff's ability to earn a degree, 
                certification, or other specializations or 
                qualifications, including policies on leave, 
                substitutes, and child care services, including non-
                traditional hour child care;
                    (O) hold eligible local entities accountable for 
                use of funds;
                    (P) ensure that the State's early learning and 
                development standards are integrated into the 
                instructional and programmatic practices of high-
                quality prekindergarten programs and related programs 
                and services, such as those provided to children under 
                section 619 and part C of the Individuals with 
                Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1419 and 1431 et 
                seq.);
                    (Q) increase the number of children in the State 
                who are enrolled in high-quality kindergarten programs 
                and carry out a strategy to implement such a plan;
                    (R) coordinate the State's activities supported by 
                grants under this subtitle with activities in State 
                plans required under the Elementary and Secondary 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), the 
                Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
                1400 et seq.), the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et 
                seq.), the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act 
                of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.), and the Adult 
                Education and Family Literacy Act (29 U.S.C. 3271 et 
                seq.);
                    (S) encourage eligible local entities to coordinate 
                with community-based learning resources, such as 
                libraries, arts and arts education programs, 
                appropriate media programs, family literacy programs, 
                public parks and recreation programs, museums, 
                nutrition education programs, and programs supported by 
                the Corporation for National and Community Service;
                    (T) work with eligible local entities, in 
                consultation with elementary school principals, to 
                ensure that high-quality prekindergarten programs have 
                sufficient and appropriate facilities to meet the needs 
                of children eligible for prekindergarten;
                    (U) support local early childhood coordinating 
                entities, such as local early childhood councils, if 
                applicable, and help such entities to coordinate early 
                childhood education programs with high-quality 
                prekindergarten programs to ensure effective and 
                efficient delivery of early childhood education program 
                services;
                    (V) support shared services administering entities, 
                if applicable;
                    (W) ensure that the provision of high-quality 
                prekindergarten programs will not lead to a diminution 
                in the quality or supply of services for infants and 
                toddlers or disrupt the care of infants and toddlers in 
                the geographic area served by the eligible local 
                entity, which may include demonstrating that the State 
                will direct funds to provide high-quality early 
                childhood education and care to infants and toddlers in 
                accordance with section 107(d); and
                    (X) encourage or promote socioeconomic, racial, and 
                ethnic diversity in the classrooms of high-quality 
                prekindergarten programs, as applicable; and
            (3) an inventory of the State's higher education programs 
        that prepare individuals for work in a high-quality 
        prekindergarten program, including--
                    (A) certification programs;
                    (B) associate degree programs;
                    (C) baccalaureate degree programs;
                    (D) masters degree programs; and
                    (E) other programs that lead to a specialization in 
                early childhood education, or a related field.

SEC. 107. STATE USE OF FUNDS.

    (a) Reservation for Quality Improvement Activities.--
            (1) In general.--A State that receives a grant under this 
        subtitle may reserve, for not more than the first 4 years such 
        State receives such a grant, not more than 20 percent of the 
        grant funds for quality improvement activities that support the 
        elements of high-quality prekindergarten programs. Such quality 
        improvement activities may include supporting teachers, center 
        directors, and principals in a State's high-quality 
        prekindergarten program, licensed or regulated child care, or 
        Head Start programs to enable such teachers, principals, or 
        directors to earn a baccalaureate degree in early childhood 
        education, or a closely related field, through activities which 
        may include--
                    (A) expanding or establishing scholarships, 
                counseling, and compensation initiatives to cover the 
                cost of tuition, fees, materials, transportation, and 
                release time for such teachers;
                    (B) providing ongoing professional development 
                opportunities, including regular in-classroom 
                observation by individuals trained in such observation, 
                for such teachers, directors, principals, and teachers 
                assistants to enable such teachers, directors, 
                principals, and teachers assistants to carry out the 
                elements of high-quality prekindergarten programs, 
                which may include activities that address--
                            (i) promoting children's development across 
                        all of the essential domains of early learning 
                        and development;
                            (ii) developmentally appropriate curricula 
                        and teacher-child interaction;
                            (iii) effective family engagement;
                            (iv) providing culturally competent 
                        instruction;
                            (v) working with a diversity of children 
                        and families, including children with 
                        disabilities and dual language learners;
                            (vi) childhood nutrition and physical 
                        education programs;
                            (vii) supporting the implementation of 
                        evidence-based curricula;
                            (viii) social and emotional development; 
                        and
                            (ix) incorporating age-appropriate 
                        strategies of positive behavioral interventions 
                        and supports; and
                    (C) providing families with increased opportunities 
                to learn how best to support their children's physical, 
                cognitive, social, and emotional development during the 
                first 5 years of life.
            (2) Not subject to matching.--The amount reserved under 
        paragraph (1) shall not be subject to the matching requirements 
        under section 110.
            (3) Coordination.--A State that reserves an amount under 
        paragraph (1) shall coordinate the use of such amount with 
        activities funded under section 658G of the Child Care and 
        Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858e) and the 
        Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.).
            (4) Construction.--A State may not use funds reserved under 
        this subsection to meet the requirement described in section 
        102(9)(G).
    (b) Subgrants for High-Quality Prekindergarten Programs.--A State 
that receives a grant under this subtitle shall award subgrants of 
sufficient size to eligible local entities to enable such eligible 
local entities to implement high-quality prekindergarten programs for 
children who--
            (1) are described in section 102(9)(A);
            (2) reside within the State; and
            (3) are from families with incomes at or below 200 percent 
        of the poverty line.
    (c) Administration.--A State that receives a grant under this 
subtitle may reserve not more than 1 percent of the grant funds for 
administration of the grant, and may use part of that reservation for 
the maintenance of the State Advisory Council on Early Childhood 
Education and Care.
    (d) Early Childhood Education and Care Programs for Infants and 
Toddlers.--
            (1) Use of allotment for infants and toddlers.--An eligible 
        State may apply to use, and the appropriate Secretary may grant 
        permission for the State to use, not more than 15 percent of 
        the funds made available through a grant received under this 
        subtitle to award subgrants to early childhood education 
        programs to provide, consistent with the State's early learning 
        and development guidelines for infants and toddlers, high-
        quality early childhood education and care to infants and 
        toddlers who reside within the State and are from families with 
        incomes at or below 200 percent of the poverty line.
            (2) Application.--To be eligible to use the grant funds as 
        described in paragraph (1), the State shall submit an 
        application to the appropriate Secretary at such time, in such 
        manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
        require. Such application shall, at a minimum, include a 
        description of how the State will--
                    (A) designate a lead agency which shall administer 
                such funds;
                    (B) ensure that such lead agency, in coordination 
                with the State's Advisory Council on Early Childhood 
                Education and Care, will collaborate with other 
                agencies in administering programs supported under this 
                subsection for infants and toddlers in order to obtain 
                input about the appropriate use of such funds and 
                ensure coordination with programs for infants and 
                toddlers funded under the Child Care and Development 
                Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.), the 
                Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.) (including any 
                Early Learning Quality Partnerships established in the 
                State under section 645B of the Head Start Act, as 
                added by section 202), the Race to the Top program 
                under section 14006 of division A of the American 
                Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-
                5), the maternal, infant, and early childhood home 
                visiting programs funded under section 511 of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711), part C of the 
                Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
                1431 et seq.), and grants for infant and toddler care 
                through Early Head Start-Child Care Partnerships funded 
                under the heading ``children and families services 
                programs'' under the heading administration for 
                children and families in title II of division H of the 
                Department of Health and Human Services Appropriations 
                Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-76; 128 Stat. 377-378);
                    (C) ensure that infants and toddlers who benefit 
                from amounts made available under this subsection will 
                transition to and have the opportunity to participate 
                in a high-quality prekindergarten program supported 
                under this subtitle;
                    (D) in awarding subgrants, give preference to early 
                childhood education programs that have a written formal 
                plan with baseline data, benchmarks, and timetables to 
                increase access to and full participation in high-
                quality prekindergarten programs for children who need 
                additional support, including children with 
                developmental delays or disabilities, children who are 
                dual language learners, homeless children, children who 
                are in foster care, children of migrant families, 
                children eligible for a free or reduced-price lunch 
                under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), or children in the child 
                welfare system; and
                    (E) give priority to activities carried out under 
                this subsection that will increase access to high-
                quality early childhood education programs for infants 
                and toddlers in local areas with significant 
                concentrations of low-income families that do not 
                currently benefit from such programs.
            (3) Eligible providers.--A State may use the grant funds as 
        described in paragraph (1) to serve infants and toddlers only 
        by working with early childhood education program providers 
        that--
                    (A) offer full-day, full-year care, or otherwise 
                meet the needs of working families; and
                    (B) meet high-quality standards, such as--
                            (i) Early Head Start program performance 
                        standards under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        9831 et seq.); or
                            (ii) high-quality, demonstrated, valid, and 
                        reliable program standards that have been 
                        established through a national entity that 
                        accredits early childhood education programs.
            (4) Federal administration.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall bear 
                responsibility for obligating and disbursing funds to 
                support activities under this subsection and ensuring 
                compliance with applicable laws and administrative 
                requirements, subject to paragraph (3).
                    (B) Interagency agreement.--The Secretary of 
                Education and the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services shall jointly administer activities supported 
                under this subsection on such terms as such Secretaries 
                shall set forth in an interagency agreement. The 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services shall be 
                responsible for any final approval of a State's 
                application under this subsection that addresses the 
                use of funds designated for services to infants and 
                toddlers.
                    (C) Appropriate secretary.--In this subsection, the 
                term ``appropriate Secretary'' used with respect to a 
                function, means the Secretary designated for that 
                function under the interagency agreement.

SEC. 108. ADDITIONAL PREKINDERGARTEN SERVICES.

    (a) Prekindergarten for 3-Year-Olds.--Each State that certifies to 
the Secretary that the State provides universally available, voluntary, 
high-quality prekindergarten programs for 4-year-old children who 
reside within the State and are from families with incomes at or below 
200 percent of the poverty line may use the State's allocation under 
section 104(b) to provide high-quality prekindergarten programs for 3-
year-old children who reside within the State and are from families 
with incomes at or below 200 percent of the poverty line.
    (b) Subgrants.--In each State that has a city, county, or local 
educational agency that provides universally available high-quality 
prekindergarten programs for 4-year-old children who reside within the 
State and are from families with incomes at or below 200 percent of the 
poverty line the State may use amounts from the State's allocation 
under section 104(b) to award subgrants to eligible local entities to 
enable such eligible local entities to provide high-quality 
prekindergarten programs for 3-year-old children who are from families 
with incomes at or below 200 percent of the poverty line and who reside 
in such city, county, or local educational agency.

SEC. 109. PERFORMANCE MEASURES AND TARGETS.

    (a) In General.--A State that receives a grant under this subtitle 
shall develop, implement, and make publicly available the performance 
measures and targets for the activities carried out with grant funds. 
Such measures shall, at a minimum, track the State's progress in--
            (1) increasing school readiness across all domains for all 
        categories of children, as described in section 113(b)(7), 
        including children with disabilities and dual language 
        learners;
            (2) narrowing school readiness gaps between minority and 
        nonminority children, and low-income children and more 
        advantaged children, in preparation for kindergarten entry;
            (3) decreasing the number of years that children receive 
        special education and related services as described in part B 
        of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
        1411 et seq.);
            (4) increasing the number of programs meeting the criteria 
        for high-quality prekindergarten programs across all types of 
        local eligible entities, as defined by the State and in 
        accordance with section 102;
            (5) decreasing the need for grade-to-grade retention in 
        elementary school;
            (6) if applicable, ensuring that high-quality 
        prekindergarten programs do not experience instances of chronic 
        absence among the children who participate in such programs;
            (7) increasing the number and percentage of low-income 
        children in high-quality early childhood education programs 
        that receive financial support through funds provided under 
        this subtitle; and
            (8) providing high-quality nutrition services, nutrition 
        education, physical activity, and obesity prevention programs.
    (b) Prohibition of Misdiagnosis Practices.--A State shall not, in 
order to meet the performance measures and targets described in 
subsection (a), engage in practices or policies that will lead to the 
misdiagnosis or under-diagnosis of disabilities or developmental delays 
among children who are served through programs supported under this 
subtitle.

SEC. 110. MATCHING REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Matching Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
        State that receives a grant under this subtitle shall provide 
        matching funds from non-Federal sources, as described in 
        subsection (c), in an amount equal to--
                    (A) 10 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the first year of grant administration;
                    (B) 10 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the second year of grant administration;
                    (C) 20 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the third year of grant administration;
                    (D) 30 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the fourth year of grant administration;
                    (E) 40 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the fifth year of grant administration;
                    (F) 50 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the sixth year of grant administration;
                    (G) 75 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the seventh year of grant administration; 
                and
                    (H) 100 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the eighth and following years of grant 
                administration.
            (2) Reduced match rate.--A State that meets the 
        requirements under subsection (b) may provide matching funds 
        from non-Federal sources at a reduced rate. The full reduced 
        matching funds rate shall be in an amount equal to--
                    (A) 5 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the first year of grant administration;
                    (B) 5 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the second year of grant administration;
                    (C) 10 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the third year of grant administration;
                    (D) 20 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the fourth year of grant administration;
                    (E) 30 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the fifth year of grant administration;
                    (F) 40 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the sixth year of grant administration;
                    (G) 50 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the seventh year of grant administration;
                    (H) 75 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the eighth year of grant administration; 
                and
                    (I) 100 percent of the Federal funds provided under 
                the grant in the ninth and following years of the grant 
                administration.
    (b) Reduced Match Rate Eligibility.--A State that receives a grant 
under this subtitle may provide matching funds from non-Federal sources 
at the full reduced rate under subsection (a)(2) if the State, across 
all publicly funded programs (including locally funded programs)--
            (1)(A) offers enrollment in high-quality prekindergarten 
        programs to not less than half of children in the State who 
        are--
                    (i) age 4 on the eligibility determination date; 
                and
                    (ii) from families with incomes at or below 200 
                percent of the poverty line; and
            (B) has a plan for continuing to expand access to high-
        quality prekindergarten programs for such children in the 
        State; and
            (2) has a plan to expand access to high-quality 
        prekindergarten programs to children from moderate income 
        families whose income exceeds 200 percent of the poverty line.
    (c) Non-Federal Resources.--
            (1) In cash.--A State shall provide the matching funds 
        under this section in cash with non-Federal resources which may 
        include State funding, local funding, or contributions from 
        philanthropy or other private sources, or a combination 
        thereof.
            (2) Funds to be considered as matching funds.--A State may 
        include, as part of the State's matching funds under this 
        section, not more than 10 percent of the amount of State or 
        local funds designated for State or local prekindergarten 
        programs or to supplement Head Start programs under the Head 
        Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.) as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act, but may not include any funds that are attributed 
        as matching funds, as part of a non-Federal share, or as a 
        maintenance of effort requirement, for any other Federal 
        program.
    (d) Maintenance of Effort.--
            (1) In general.--If a State reduces its combined fiscal 
        effort per student or the aggregate expenditures within the 
        State to support early childhood education programs for any 
        fiscal year that a State receives a grant authorized under this 
        subtitle relative to the previous fiscal year, the Secretary 
        shall reduce support for such State under this subtitle by the 
        same amount as the decline in State effort for such fiscal 
        year.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirements of 
        paragraph (1) if--
                    (A) the Secretary determines that a waiver would be 
                appropriate due to a precipitous decline in the 
                financial resources of a State as a result of 
                unforeseen economic hardship or a natural disaster that 
                has necessitated across-the-board reductions in State 
                services, including early childhood education programs; 
                or
                    (B) due to the circumstances of a State requiring 
                reductions in specific programs, including early 
                childhood education, if the State presents to the 
                Secretary a justification and demonstration why other 
                programs could not be reduced and how early childhood 
                programs in the State will not be disproportionately 
                harmed by such State action.
    (e) Supplement Not Supplant.--Grant funds received under this 
subtitle shall be used to supplement and not supplant other Federal, 
State, and local public funds expended on public prekindergarten 
programs in the State.

SEC. 111. ELIGIBLE LOCAL ENTITY APPLICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--An eligible local entity desiring to receive a 
subgrant under section 107(b) shall submit an application to the State, 
at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
State may reasonably require.
    (b) Contents.--Each application submitted under subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
            (1) Parent and family engagement.--A description of how the 
        eligible local entity plans to engage the parents and families 
        of the children such entity serves and ensure that parents and 
        families of eligible children, as described in clauses (i) and 
        (ii) of section 106(2)(A), are aware of the services provided 
        by the eligible local entity, which shall include a plan to--
                    (A) carry out meaningful parent and family 
                engagement, through the implementation and replication 
                of evidence-based or promising practices and 
                strategies, which shall be coordinated with parent and 
                family engagement strategies supported under the 
                Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
                1400 et seq.), part A of title I and title V of the 
                Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 6311 et seq.; 7201 et seq.), and strategies in 
                the Head Start Parent, Family, and Community Engagement 
                Framework, if applicable, to--
                            (i) provide parents and family members with 
                        the skills and opportunities necessary to 
                        become engaged and effective partners in their 
                        children's education, particularly the families 
                        of dual language learners and children with 
                        disabilities, which may include access to 
                        family literacy services;
                            (ii) improve child development; and
                            (iii) strengthen relationships among 
                        prekindergarten staff and parents and family 
                        members; and
                    (B) participate in community outreach to encourage 
                families with eligible children to participate in the 
                eligible local entity's high-quality prekindergarten 
                program, including--
                            (i) homeless children;
                            (ii) dual language learners;
                            (iii) children in foster care;
                            (iv) children with disabilities; and
                            (v) migrant children.
            (2) Coordination and alignment.--A description of how the 
        eligible local entity will--
                    (A) coordinate, if applicable, the eligible local 
                entity's activities with--
                            (i) Head Start agencies (consistent with 
                        section 642(e)(5) of the Head Start Act (42 
                        U.S.C. 9837(e)(5))), if the local entity is not 
                        a Head Start agency;
                            (ii) local educational agencies, if the 
                        eligible local entity is not a local 
                        educational agency;
                            (iii) providers of services under part C of 
                        the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
                        (20 U.S.C. 1431 et seq.);
                            (iv) programs carried out under section 619 
                        of the Individuals with Disabilities Education 
                        Act (20 U.S.C. 1419); and
                            (v) if feasible, other entities carrying 
                        out early childhood education programs and 
                        services within the area served by the local 
                        educational agency;
                    (B) develop a process to promote continuity of 
                developmentally appropriate instructional programs and 
                shared expectations with local elementary schools for 
                children's learning and development as children 
                transition to kindergarten;
                    (C) organize, if feasible, and participate in joint 
                training, when available, including transition-related 
                training for school staff and early childhood education 
                program staff;
                    (D) establish comprehensive transition policies and 
                procedures, with applicable elementary schools and 
                principals, for the children served by the eligible 
                local entity that support the school readiness of 
                children transitioning to kindergarten, including the 
                transfer of early childhood education program records, 
                with parental consent;
                    (E) conduct outreach to parents, families, and 
                elementary school teachers and principals to discuss 
                the educational, developmental, and other needs of 
                children entering kindergarten;
                    (F) help parents, including parents of children who 
                are dual language learners, understand and engage with 
                the instructional and other services provided by the 
                kindergarten in which such child will enroll after 
                participation in a high-quality prekindergarten 
                program; and
                    (G) develop and implement a system to increase 
                program participation of underserved populations of 
                eligible children, especially homeless children, 
                children eligible for a free or reduced-price lunch 
                under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.), parents of children who are 
                dual language learners, and parents of children with 
                disabilities.
            (3) Full participation of all children.--A description of 
        how the eligible local entity will meet the diverse needs of 
        children in the community to be served, including children with 
        disabilities, dual language learners, children who need 
        additional support, children in the State foster care system, 
        and homeless children. Such description shall demonstrate, at a 
        minimum, how the entity plans to--
                    (A) ensure the eligible local entity's high-quality 
                prekindergarten program is accessible and appropriate 
                for children with disabilities and dual language 
                learners;
                    (B) establish effective procedures for ensuring use 
                of evidence-based practices in assessment and 
                instruction, including use of data for progress 
                monitoring of child performance and provision of 
                technical assistance support for staff to ensure 
                fidelity with evidence-based practices;
                    (C) establish effective procedures for timely 
                referral of children with disabilities to entities 
                authorized under part B and part C of the Individuals 
                with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1411 et 
                seq.; 1431 et seq.);
                    (D) ensure that the eligible local entity's high-
                quality prekindergarten program works with appropriate 
                entities to address the elimination of barriers to 
                immediate and continuous enrollment for homeless 
                children; and
                    (E) ensure access to and continuity of enrollment 
                in high-quality prekindergarten programs for migratory 
                children, if applicable, and homeless children, 
                including through policies and procedures that 
                require--
                            (i) outreach to identify migratory children 
                        and homeless children;
                            (ii) immediate enrollment, including 
                        enrollment during the period of time when 
                        documents typically required for enrollment, 
                        including health and immunization records, 
                        proof of eligibility, and other documents, are 
                        obtained;
                            (iii) continuous enrollment and 
                        participation in the same high-quality 
                        prekindergarten program for a child, even if 
                        the child moves out of the program's service 
                        area, if that enrollment and participation are 
                        in the child's best interest, including by 
                        providing transportation when necessary;
                            (iv) professional development for high-
                        quality prekindergarten program staff regarding 
                        migratory children and homelessness among 
                        families with young children; and
                            (v) in serving homeless children, 
                        collaboration with local educational agency 
                        liaisons designated under section 
                        722(g)(1)(J)(ii) of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
                        Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii)), 
                        and local homeless service providers.
            (4) Accessible comprehensive services.--A description of 
        how the eligible local entity plans to provide accessible 
        comprehensive services, described in section 102(9)(I), to the 
        children the eligible local entity serves. Such description 
        shall provide information on how the entity will--
                    (A) conduct a data-driven community assessment in 
                coordination with members of the community, including 
                parents and community organizations, or use a recently 
                conducted data-driven assessment, which--
                            (i) may involve an external partner with 
                        expertise in conducting such needs analysis, to 
                        determine the most appropriate social or other 
                        support services to offer through the eligible 
                        local entity's on-site comprehensive services 
                        to children who participate in high-quality 
                        prekindergarten programs; and
                            (ii) shall consider the resources available 
                        at the school, local educational agency, and 
                        community levels to address the needs of the 
                        community and improve child outcomes; and
                    (B) have a coordinated system to facilitate the 
                screening, referral, and provision of services related 
                to health, nutrition, mental health, disability, and 
                family support for children served by the eligible 
                local entity.
            (5) Workforce.--A description of how the eligible local 
        entity plans to support the instructional staff of such 
        entity's high-quality prekindergarten program, which shall, at 
        a minimum, include a plan to provide high-quality professional 
        development, or facilitate the provision of high-quality 
        professional development through an external partner with 
        expertise and a demonstrated track record of success, based on 
        scientifically valid research, that will improve the knowledge 
        and skills of high-quality prekindergarten teachers and staff 
        through activities, which may include--
                    (A) acquiring content knowledge and learning 
                teaching strategies needed to provide effective 
                instruction that addresses the State's early learning 
                and development standards described under section 
                105(1), including professional training to support the 
                social and emotional development of children;
                    (B) enabling high-quality prekindergarten teachers 
                and staff to pursue specialized training in early 
                childhood development;
                    (C) enabling high-quality prekindergarten teachers 
                and staff to acquire the knowledge and skills to 
                provide instruction and appropriate language and 
                support services to increase the English language 
                skills of dual language learners;
                    (D) enabling high-quality prekindergarten teachers 
                and staff to acquire the knowledge and skills to 
                provide developmentally appropriate instruction for 
                children with disabilities;
                    (E) promoting classroom management;
                    (F) providing high-quality induction and support 
                for incoming high-quality prekindergarten teachers and 
                staff in high-quality prekindergarten programs, 
                including through the use of mentoring programs and 
                coaching that have a demonstrated track record of 
                success;
                    (G) promoting the acquisition of relevant 
                credentials, including in ways that support career 
                advancement through career ladders; and
                    (H) enabling high-quality prekindergarten teachers 
                and staff to acquire the knowledge and skills to 
                provide culturally competent instruction for children 
                from diverse backgrounds.

SEC. 112. REQUIRED SUBGRANT ACTIVITIES.

    (a) In General.--An eligible local entity that receives a subgrant 
under section 107(b) shall use subgrant funds to implement the elements 
of a high-quality prekindergarten program for the children described in 
section 107(b).
    (b) Coordination.--
            (1) Local educational agency partnerships with local early 
        childhood education programs.--A local educational agency that 
        receives a subgrant under this subtitle shall provide an 
        assurance that the local educational agency will enter into 
        strong partnerships with local early childhood education 
        programs, including programs supported through the Head Start 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.).
            (2) Eligible local entities that are not local educational 
        agencies.--An eligible local entity that is not a local 
        educational agency that receives a subgrant under this subtitle 
        shall provide an assurance that such entity will enter into 
        strong partnerships with local educational agencies.

SEC. 113. REPORT AND EVALUATION.

    (a) In General.--Each State that receives a grant under this 
subtitle shall prepare an annual report, in such manner and containing 
such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.
    (b) Contents.--A report prepared under subsection (a) shall 
contain, at a minimum--
            (1) a description of the manner in which the State has used 
        the funds made available through the grant and a report of the 
        expenditures made with the funds;
            (2) a summary of the State's progress toward providing 
        access to high-quality prekindergarten programs for children 
        eligible for such services, as determined by the State, from 
        families with incomes at or below 200 percent of the poverty 
        line, including the percentage of funds spent on children from 
        families with incomes--
                    (A) at or below 100 percent of the poverty line;
                    (B) at or below between 101 and 150 percent of the 
                poverty line; and
                    (C) at or below between 151 and 200 percent of the 
                poverty line;
            (3) an evaluation of the State's progress toward achieving 
        the State's performance targets, described in section 109;
            (4) data on the number of high-quality prekindergarten 
        program teachers and staff in the State (including teacher 
        turnover rates and teacher compensation levels compared to 
        teachers in elementary schools and secondary schools), 
        according to the setting in which such teachers and staff work 
        (which settings shall include, at a minimum, Head Start 
        programs, public prekindergarten, and child care programs) who 
        received training or education during the period of the grant 
        and remained in the early childhood education program field;
            (5) data on the kindergarten readiness of children in the 
        State;
            (6) a description of the State's progress in effectively 
        using Federal, State, and local public funds and private funds, 
        for early childhood education;
            (7) the number and percentage of children in the State 
        participating in high-quality prekindergarten programs, 
        disaggregated by race, ethnicity, family income, child age, 
        disability, whether the children are homeless children, and 
        whether the children are dual language learners;
            (8) data on the availability, affordability, and quality of 
        infant and toddler care in the State;
            (9) the number of operational minutes per week and per year 
        for each eligible local entity that receives a subgrant;
            (10) the local educational agency and zip code in which 
        each eligible local entity that receives a subgrant operates;
            (11) information, for each of the local educational 
        agencies described in paragraph (10), on the percentage of the 
        costs of the public early childhood education programs that is 
        funded from Federal, from State, and from local sources, 
        including the percentages from specific funding programs;
            (12) data on the number and percentage of children in the 
        State participating in public kindergarten programs, 
        disaggregated by race, family income, child age, disability, 
        whether the children are homeless children, and whether the 
        children are dual language learners, with information on 
        whether such programs are offered--
                    (A) for a full day; and
                    (B) at no cost to families;
            (13) data on the number of individuals in the State who are 
        supported with scholarships, if applicable, to meet the 
        bachelor's degree requirement for high-quality prekindergarten 
        programs, as defined in section 102; and
            (14) information on--
                    (A) the rates of expulsion, suspension, and similar 
                disciplinary action, of children in the State 
                participating in high-quality prekindergarten programs, 
                disaggregated by race, ethnicity, family income, child 
                age, and disability;
                    (B) the State's progress in establishing policies 
                on effective behavior management strategies and 
                training that promote positive social and emotional 
                development to eliminate expulsions and suspensions of 
                children participating in high-quality prekindergarten 
                programs; and
                    (C) the State's policies on providing early 
                learning services to children in the State 
                participating in high-quality prekindergarten programs 
                who have been suspended.
    (c) Submission.--A State shall submit the annual report prepared 
under subsection (a), at the end of each fiscal year, to the Secretary, 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the State Advisory 
Council on Early Childhood Education and Care.
    (d) Cooperation.--An eligible local entity that receives a subgrant 
under this subtitle shall cooperate with all Federal and State efforts 
to evaluate the effectiveness of the program the entity implements with 
subgrant funds.
    (e) National Report.--The Secretary shall compile and summarize the 
annual State reports described under subsection (c) and shall prepare 
and submit an annual report to Congress that includes a summary of such 
State reports.

SEC. 114. PROHIBITION OF REQUIRED PARTICIPATION OR USE OF FUNDS FOR 
              ASSESSMENTS.

    (a) Prohibition on Required Participation.--A State receiving a 
grant under this subtitle shall not require any child to participate in 
any Federal, State, local, or private early childhood education 
program, including a high-quality prekindergarten program.
    (b) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Assessment.--A State receiving 
a grant under this subtitle and an eligible local entity receiving a 
subgrant under this subtitle shall not use any grant or subgrant funds 
to carry out any of the following activities:
            (1) An assessment that provides rewards or sanctions for 
        individual children, teachers, or principals.
            (2) An assessment that is used as the primary or sole 
        method for assessing program effectiveness.
            (3) Evaluating children, other than for the purposes of--
                    (A) improving instruction or the classroom 
                environment;
                    (B) targeting professional development;
                    (C) determining the need for health, mental health, 
                disability, or family support services;
                    (D) program evaluation for the purposes of program 
                improvement and parent information; and
                    (E) improving parent and family engagement.

SEC. 115. COORDINATION WITH HEAD START PROGRAMS.

    (a) Increased Access for Younger Children.--Not later than 1 year 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall develop a process--
            (1) for use in the event that Head Start programs funded 
        under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.) operate in 
        States or regions that have achieved sustained universal, 
        voluntary access to 4-year-old children who reside within the 
        State and who are from families with incomes at or below 200 
        percent of the poverty line to high-quality prekindergarten 
        programs; and
            (2) for how such Head Start programs will begin converting 
        slots for children who are age 4 on the eligibility 
        determination date to children who are age 3 on the eligibility 
        determination date, or, when appropriate, converting Head Start 
        programs into Early Head Start programs to serve infants and 
        toddlers.
    (b) Community Need and Resources.--The process described in 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) be carried out on a case-by-case basis and shall ensure 
        that sufficient resources and time are allocated for the 
        development of such a process so that no child or cohort is 
        excluded from currently available services; and
            (2) ensure that any conversion shall be based on community 
        need and not on the aggregate number of children served in a 
        State or region that has achieved sustained, universal, 
        voluntary access to high-quality prekindergarten programs.
    (c) Public Comment and Notice.--Not fewer than 90 days after the 
development of the proposed process described in subsection (a), the 
Secretary and the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall publish 
a notice describing such proposed process for conversion in the Federal 
Register providing at least 90 days for public comment. The Secretaries 
shall review and consider public comments prior to finalizing the 
process for conversion of Head Start slots and programs.
    (d) Reports to Congress.--Concurrently with publishing a notice in 
the Federal Register as described in subsection (c), the Secretaries 
shall provide a report to the Committee on Education and the Workforce 
of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, 
Labor, and Pensions of the Senate that provides a detailed description 
of the proposed process described in subsection (a), including a 
description of the degree to which Head Start programs are providing 
State-funded high-quality prekindergarten programs as a result of the 
grant opportunity provided under this subtitle in States where Head 
Start programs are eligible for conversion described in subsection (a).

SEC. 116. TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE IN PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.

    In providing technical assistance to carry out activities under 
this subtitle, the Secretary shall coordinate that technical 
assistance, in appropriate cases, with technical assistance provided by 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services to carry out the programs 
authorized under the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq.), the Child 
Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.), 
and the maternal, infant and early childhood home visiting programs 
assisted under section 511 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711).

SEC. 117. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this 
subtitle--
            (1) $1,300,000,000 for fiscal year 2016;
            (2) $3,250,000,000 for fiscal year 2017;
            (3) $5,780,000,000 for fiscal year 2018;
            (4) $7,580,000,000 for fiscal year 2019;
            (5) $8,960,000,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
            (6) such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 
        2021 through 2025.

             Subtitle B--Prekindergarten Development Grants

SEC. 121. PREKINDERGARTEN DEVELOPMENT GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Education, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall award competitive 
grants to States that wish to increase their capacity and build the 
infrastructure within the State to offer high-quality prekindergarten 
programs.
    (b) Eligibility of States.--A State that is not receiving funds 
under subtitle A may compete for grant funds under this subtitle if the 
State provides an assurance that the State will, through the support of 
grant funds awarded under this subtitle, meet the eligibility 
requirements of section 105 not later than 3 years after the date the 
State first receives grant funds under this subtitle.
    (c) Grant Duration.--The Secretary shall award grants under this 
subtitle for a period of not more than 3 years. Such grants shall not 
be renewed.
    (d) Application.--
            (1) In general.--A Governor, or chief executive officer of 
        a State that desires to receive a grant under this subtitle 
        shall submit an application to the Secretary of Education at 
        such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information 
        as the Secretary of Education may reasonably require, 
        including, if applicable, a description of how the State plans 
        to become eligible for grants under section 105 by not later 
        than 3 years after the date the State first receives grant 
        funds under this subtitle.
            (2) Development of state application.--In developing an 
        application for a grant under this subtitle, a State shall 
        consult with the State Advisory Council on Early Childhood 
        Education and Care and incorporate the Council's 
        recommendations, where applicable.
    (e) Matching Requirement.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this subtitle, a State shall contribute for the activities for 
        which the grant was awarded non-Federal matching funds in an 
        amount equal to not less than 20 percent of the amount of the 
        grant.
            (2) Non-federal funds.--To satisfy the requirement of 
        paragraph (1), a State may use--
                    (A) non-Federal resources in the form of State 
                funding, local funding, or contributions from 
                philanthropy or other private sources, or a combination 
                of such resources; or
                    (B) in-kind contributions.
            (3) Financial hardship waiver.--The Secretary may waive the 
        requirement under paragraph (1) or reduce the amount of 
        matching funds required under that paragraph for a State that 
        has submitted an application for a grant under this subsection 
        if the State demonstrates, in the application, a need for such 
        a waiver or reduction due to extreme financial hardship, as 
        determined by the Secretary.
    (f) Subgrants.--
            (1) In general.--A State awarded a grant under this 
        subtitle may use the grant funds to award subgrants to eligible 
        local entities, as defined in section 102, to carry out the 
        activities under the grant.
            (2) Subgrantees.--An eligible local entity awarded a 
        subgrant under paragraph (1) shall comply with the requirements 
        of this subtitle relating to grantees, as appropriate.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            (1) $750,000,000 for fiscal year 2016; and
            (2) such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 
        2017 through 2025.

             TITLE II--EARLY LEARNING QUALITY PARTNERSHIPS

SEC. 201. PURPOSES.

    The purposes of this title are to--
            (1) increase the availability of, and access to, high-
        quality early childhood education and care programming for 
        infants and toddlers;
            (2) support a higher quality of, and increase capacity for, 
        such programming in both child care centers and family child 
        care homes;
            (3) encourage the provision of comprehensive, coordinated 
        full-day services and supports for infants and toddlers; and
            (4) increase access to appropriate supports so children 
        with disabilities and other children who need specialized 
        supports can fully participate in high-quality early education 
        programs.

SEC. 202. EARLY LEARNING QUALITY PARTNERSHIPS.

    The Head Start Act is amended--
            (1) by amending section 645A(e) (42 U.S.C. 9840a(e)) to 
        read as follows:
    ``(e) Selection of Grant Recipients.--The Secretary shall award 
grants under this section on a competitive basis to applicants meeting 
the criteria in subsection (d) (giving priority to entities with a 
record of providing early, continuous, and comprehensive childhood 
development and family services and entities that agree to partner with 
a center-based or family child care provider to carry out the 
activities described in section 645B).''; and
            (2) by inserting after section 645A the following:

``SEC. 645B. EARLY LEARNING QUALITY PARTNERSHIPS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall make grants to Early Head 
Start agencies to enable the Early Head Start agencies to form early 
learning quality partnerships by partnering with center-based or family 
child care providers, particularly those that receive support under the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et 
seq.), that agree to meet the program performance standards described 
in section 641A(a)(1) and Early Head Start standards described in 
section 645A that are applicable to the ages of children served with 
funding and technical assistance from the Early Head Start agency.
    ``(b) Selection of Grant Recipients.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), the Secretary shall award grants under this section in a 
        manner consistent with section 645A(e).
            ``(2) Competitive priority.--In awarding grants under this 
        section, the Secretary shall give priority to applicants--
                    ``(A) that propose to create strong alignment of 
                programs with maternal, infant, and early childhood 
                home visiting programs assisted under section 511 of 
                the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711), State-funded 
                prekindergarten programs, programs carried out under 
                the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 
                (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.), and other programs supported 
                under this Act, to create a strong continuum of high-
                quality services for children from birth to school 
                entry; and
                    ``(B) that seek to work with child care providers 
                across settings, including center-based and home-based 
                programs.
            ``(3) Allocation.--
                    ``(A) Reservation.--From funds appropriated to 
                carry out this section, the Secretary shall reserve--
                            ``(i) not less than 3 percent of such funds 
                        for Indian Head Start programs that serve young 
                        children;
                            ``(ii) not less than 4.5 percent for 
                        migrant and seasonal Head Start programs that 
                        serve young children; and
                            ``(iii) not less than 0.2 percent for 
                        programs funded under clause (iv) or (v) of 
                        section 640(a)(2)(B).
                    ``(B) Allocation among states.--The Secretary shall 
                allocate funds appropriated to carry out this section 
                and not reserved under subparagraph (A) among the 
                States proportionally based on the number of young 
                children from families whose income is below the 
                poverty line residing in such States.
    ``(c) Eligibility of Children.--Partnerships formed through 
assistance provided under this section may serve children through age 
3, and the standards applied to children in subsection (a) shall be 
consistent with those applied to 3-year-old children under this 
subchapter.
    ``(d) Partnerships.--An Early Head Start agency that receives a 
grant under this section shall--
            ``(1) enter into a contractual relationship with a center-
        based or family child care provider to raise the quality of 
        such provider's programs so that the provider meets the program 
        performance standards described in subsection (a) through 
        activities that may include--
                    ``(A) expanding the center-based or family child 
                care provider's programs through financial support;
                    ``(B) providing training, technical assistance, and 
                support to the provider in order to help the provider 
                meet the program performance standards, which may 
                include supporting program and partner staff in earning 
                a child development associate credential, associate's 
                degree, or baccalaureate degree in early childhood 
                education or a closely related field for working with 
                infants and toddlers; and
                    ``(C) blending funds received under the Child Care 
                and Development Block Grant of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et 
                seq.) and the Early Head Start program carried out 
                under section 645A in order to provide high-quality 
                child care, for a full day, that meets the program 
                performance standards;
            ``(2) develop and implement a proposal to recruit and enter 
        into a contract with a center-based or family child care 
        provider, particularly a provider that serves children who 
        receive assistance under the Child Care and Development Block 
        Grant of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq.);
            ``(3) create a clear and realizable timeline to increase 
        the quality and capacity of a center-based or family child care 
        provider so that the provider meets the program performance 
        standards described in subsection (a); and
            ``(4) align activities and services provided through 
        funding under this section with the Head Start Child Outcomes 
        Framework.
    ``(e) Standards.--Prior to awarding grants under this section, the 
Secretary shall establish standards to ensure that the responsibility 
and expectations of the Early Head Start agency and the partner child 
care providers are clearly defined.
    ``(f) Designation Renewal.--A partner child care provider that 
receives assistance through a grant provided under this section shall 
be exempt, for a period of 18 months, from the designation renewal 
requirements under section 641(c).
    ``(g) Survey of Early Head Start Agencies and Report to Congress.--
Within one year of the effective date of this section, the Secretary 
shall conduct a survey of Early Head Start agencies to determine the 
extent of barriers to entering into early learning quality partnership 
agreements under this section on Early Head Start agencies and on child 
care providers, and submit this information, with suggested steps to 
overcome such barriers, in a report to the Committee on Education and 
the Workforce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, including a 
detailed description of the degree to which Early Head Start agencies 
are utilizing the funds provided.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section--
            ``(1) $1,430,376,000 for fiscal year 2016; and
            ``(2) such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal 
        years 2017 through 2025.''.

   TITLE III--AUTHORIZATIONS OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR THE EDUCATION OF 
                       CHILDREN WITH DISABILITIES

SEC. 301. PRESCHOOL GRANTS.

    Section 619(j) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act 
(20 U.S.C. 1419(j)) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $418,000,000 for fiscal year 
2016 and such sums as may be necessary for each succeeding fiscal 
year.''.

SEC. 302. INFANTS AND TODDLERS WITH DISABILITIES.

    Section 644 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 
U.S.C. 1444) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 644. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    ``For the purpose of carrying out this part, there are authorized 
to be appropriated $508,000,000 for fiscal year 2016 and such sums as 
may be necessary for each succeeding fiscal year.''.

 TITLE IV--MATERNAL, INFANT, AND EARLY CHILDHOOD HOME VISITING PROGRAM

SEC. 401. SENSE OF THE SENATE.

    It is the sense of the Senate that--
            (1) from the prenatal period to the first day of 
        kindergarten, children's development rapidly progresses at a 
        pace exceeding that of any subsequent stage of life;
            (2) as reported by the National Academy of Sciences in 
        2001, striking disparities exist in what children know and can 
        do that are evident well before they enter kindergarten;
            (3) such differences are strongly associated with social 
        and economic circumstances, and they are predictive of 
        subsequent academic performance;
            (4) research has consistently demonstrated that investments 
        in high-quality programs that serve infants and toddlers--
                    (A) better positions those children for success in 
                elementary, secondary, and postsecondary education; and
                    (B) helps those children develop the critical 
                physical, emotional, social, and cognitive skills that 
                they will need for the rest of their lives;
            (5) in 2011, there were 11,000,000 infants and toddlers 
        living in the United States, and 49 percent of these children 
        came from low-income families with incomes at or below 200 
        percent of the Federal poverty guidelines;
            (6) the Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting 
        program (referred to as ``MIECHV'') was authorized by Congress 
        to facilitate collaboration and partnership at the Federal, 
        State, and community levels to improve health and development 
        outcomes for at-risk children, including those from low-income 
        families, through evidence-based home visiting programs;
            (7) MIECHV is an evidence-based policy initiative and the 
        program's authorizing legislation requires that at least 75 
        percent of funds dedicated to the program must support programs 
        to implement evidence-based home visiting models, which 
        includes the home-based model of Early Head Start; and
            (8) Congress should continue to provide resources to MIECHV 
        to support the work of States to help at-risk families 
        voluntarily receive home visits from nurses and social workers 
        to--
                    (A) promote maternal, infant, and child health;
                    (B) improve school readiness and achievement;
                    (C) prevent potential child abuse or neglect and 
                injuries;
                    (D) support family economic self-sufficiency;
                    (E) reduce crime or domestic violence; and
                    (F) improve coordination or referrals for community 
                resources and supports.
                                 <all>
