[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 313 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.313

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
   To amend title 5, United States Code, to provide leave to any new 
 Federal employee who is a veteran with a service-connected disability 
rated at 30 percent or more for purposes of undergoing medical treatment 
              for such disability, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Wounded Warriors Federal Leave Act 
of 2015''.
SEC. 2. ADDITIONAL LEAVE FOR FEDERAL EMPLOYEES WHO ARE DISABLED 
VETERANS.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 6329. Disabled veteran leave
    ``(a) During the 12-month period beginning on the first day of 
employment, any employee who is a veteran with a service-connected 
disability rated at 30 percent or more is entitled to leave, without 
loss or reduction in pay, for purposes of undergoing medical treatment 
for such disability for which sick leave could regularly be used.
    ``(b)(1) The leave credited to an employee under subsection (a) may 
not exceed 104 hours.
    ``(2) Any leave credited to an employee pursuant to subsection (a) 
that is not used during the 12-month period described in such 
subsection may not be carried over and shall be forfeited.
    ``(c) In order to verify that leave credited to an employee 
pursuant to subsection (a) is used for treating a service-connected 
disability, such employee shall submit to the head of the employing 
agency certification, in such form and manner as the Director of the 
Office of Personnel Management may prescribe, that such employee used 
such leave for purposes of being furnished treatment for such 
disability by a health care provider.
    ``(d) In this section--
        ``(1) the term `employee' has the meaning given such term in 
    section 2105, and includes an officer or employee of the United 
    States Postal Service or of the Postal Regulatory Commission;
        ``(2) the term `service-connected' has the meaning given such 
    term in section 101(16) of title 38; and
        ``(3) the term `veteran' has the meaning given such term in 
    section 101(2) of such title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 63 of 
title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding after the item 
relating to section 6328 the following:

``6329. Disabled veteran leave.''.

    (c) Application.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to any employee (as that term is defined in section 
6329(d)(1) of title 5, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)) 
hired on or after the date that is 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act.
    (d) Regulations.--Not later than 9 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act--
        (1) the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall 
    prescribe regulations with respect to the leave provided by the 
    amendment in subsection (a) for employees, but not including 
    employees of the United States Postal Service or the Postal 
    Regulatory Commission; and
        (2) the Postmaster General shall prescribe regulations for such 
    leave with respect to officers and employees of the United States 
    Postal Service and the Postal Regulatory Commission.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
