[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 421 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 421

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 17, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 3134) to provide for a moratorium on 
Federal funding to Planned Parenthood Federation of America, Inc. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or their 
respective designees; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3504) to amend title 18, United States Code, to 
prohibit a health care practitioner from failing to exercise the proper degree 
of care in the case of a child who survives an abortion or attempted abortion. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on the Judiciary or their respective designees; 
and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon passage of H.R. 3134 the House shall be considered to have: 
(1) stricken all after the enacting clause of S. 764 and inserted in lieu 
thereof the provisions of H.R. 3134, as passed by the House; and (2) passed the 
Senate bill as so amended.
    Sec. 4.  Upon passage of H.R. 3504 the House shall be considered to have: 
(1) stricken all after the enacting clause of S. 1603 and inserted in lieu 
thereof the provisions of H.R. 3504, as passed by the House; and (2) passed the 
Senate bill as so amended.
    Sec. 5.  House Resolution 408 is laid on the table.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
