[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2454 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2454

 To limit the period of authorization of new budget authority provided 
 in appropriation Acts, to require analysis, appraisal, and evaluation 
   of existing programs for which continued new budget authority is 
  proposed to be authorized by committees of Congress, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            January 20, 2016

   Mr. Paul (for himself, Mr. Enzi, and Mr. Sessions) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
               Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To limit the period of authorization of new budget authority provided 
 in appropriation Acts, to require analysis, appraisal, and evaluation 
   of existing programs for which continued new budget authority is 
  proposed to be authorized by committees of Congress, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Performance Review Act 
of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    For purposes of this Act--
            (1) the term ``agency'' has the meaning given the term 
        Executive agency under section 105 of title 5, United States 
        Code;
            (2) the term ``appropriation Act'' means an Act referred to 
        in section 105 of title 1, United States Code;
            (3) the term ``authorization'' means an Act authorizing new 
        budget authority to be provided in appropriation Acts;
            (4) the term ``new budget authority'' means budget 
        authority (as defined in section 3(2)(A) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 622(2)(A))) which is provided in 
        an appropriation Act; and
            (5) the term ``program'' means any activities or purposes 
        for which there is a separate authorization of new budget 
        authority.

SEC. 3. BILLS AND RESOLUTIONS SUBJECT TO POINT OF ORDER.

    (a) In General.--It shall not be in order in either the Senate or 
the House of Representatives to consider--
            (1) any bill or resolution which authorizes the enactment 
        of new budget authority for a period of more than 4 fiscal 
        years, except as provided in section 4; or
            (2) any bill or resolution which authorizes the enactment 
        of an unlimited amount of new budget authority for any purpose 
        or purposes.
    (b) Point of Order.--In the Senate, a point of order under this 
section may be raised by a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974. A point of order under this section 
may be waived in accordance with the procedures under section 313(e) of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 upon an affirmative vote of three-
fifths of the Members duly chosen and sworn.
    (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in relation 
to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of order being made by any 
Senator pursuant to subsection (b), and such point of order being 
sustained, such material contained in such conference report or House 
amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider 
the question of whether the Senate shall recede from its amendment and 
concur with a further amendment, or concur in the House amendment with 
a further amendment, as the case may be, which further amendment shall 
consist of only that portion of the conference report or House 
amendment, as the case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the 
Senate shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order is 
sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment derived from 
such conference report by operation of this paragraph), no further 
amendment shall be in order.

SEC. 4. WAIVER OF TIME LIMIT ON AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In the Senate.--
            (1) Committee consideration.--If any committee of the 
        Senate determines that an authorization of the enactment of new 
        budget authority for a period of more than 4 fiscal years is 
        necessary to accomplish the purposes for which the 
        authorization is made, the committee may report a bill or 
        resolution containing an authorization for such longer period. 
        At the same time or later, the committee shall report a 
        resolution to the Senate providing for a waiver of the 4-
        fiscal-year limit contained in section 3(a)(1) (in this 
        subsection referred to as a ``waiver resolution'') and stating 
        the reasons why such a waiver is necessary. The resolution 
        shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.
            (2) Reporting.--The Committee on the Budget of the Senate 
        may not amend a waiver resolution, may order the waiver 
        resolution reported favorably, unfavorably, or without 
        recommendation, as it relates to the effect of the waiver on 
        the ability of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate to 
        execute its duties under section 703(a)(3) of the Congressional 
        Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 623(a)(3)), and shall report a 
        waiver resolution referred under paragraph (1) to the Senate 
        not later than 10 days after the waiver resolution is referred 
        to the committee (not counting any day on which the Senate is 
        not in session) beginning with the day following the day on 
        which the waiver resolution is so referred, accompanied by the 
        committee's recommendations and reasons for the recommendations 
        with respect to the waiver resolution. If the Committee on the 
        Budget of the Senate does not report a waiver resolution within 
        the 10-day period under this paragraph, the committee shall 
        automatically be discharged from further consideration of the 
        waiver resolution and the waiver resolution shall be placed on 
        the calendar.
            (3) Debate restrictions.--During the consideration of any 
        waiver resolution, debate shall be limited to 1 hour, to be 
        equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader 
        and minority leader or their designees, and the time on any 
        debatable motion or appeal shall be limited to 20 minutes, to 
        be equally divided between, and controlled by the mover and the 
        manager of the waiver resolution. In the event the manager of 
        the waiver resolution is in favor of any such motion or appeal, 
        the time in opposition shall be controlled by the minority 
        leader or a designee. The leaders, or either of them, may, from 
        the time under their control on the passage of the waiver 
        resolution, allot additional time to any Senator during the 
        consideration of the debatable motion or appeal.
            (4) Voting.--If a waiver resolution is agreed to by the 
        Senate, section 3(a)(1) shall not apply with respect to the 
        bill or resolution to which the waiver resolution relates.
            (5) Oversight hearing.--Whenever any bill or resolution is 
        reported by a committee under paragraph (1), the report 
        accompanying the bill or resolution shall contain a schedule of 
        oversight hearings by the committee to determine progress being 
        made toward the intended objectives of the program for which 
        the authorization is being made.
    (b) In the House of Representatives.--
            (1) Committee consideration.--If any committee of the House 
        of Representatives determines that an authorization of the 
        enactment of new budget authority for a period of more than 4 
        fiscal years is necessary to accomplish the purposes for which 
        the authorization is made, the committee may report a bill or 
        resolution containing an authorization for such longer period. 
        At the same time or later, the committee shall report a 
        resolution to the House of Representatives providing for a 
        waiver of the 4-fiscal-year limit contained in section 3(a)(1) 
        (in this subsection referred to as a ``waiver resolution'') and 
        stating the reasons why such a waiver is necessary. The 
        resolution shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of 
        the House of Representatives.
            (2) Reporting.--The Committee on the Budget of the House of 
        Representatives may not amend a waiver resolution, may order 
        the waiver resolution reported favorably, unfavorably, or 
        without recommendation, as it relates to the effect of the 
        waiver on the ability of the Committee on the Budget of the 
        House of Representatives to execute its duties under section 
        703(a)(3) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 
        623(a)(3)), and shall report a waiver resolution referred under 
        paragraph (1) to the House of Representatives not later than 10 
        days after the waiver resolution is referred to the committee 
        (not counting any day on which the House of Representatives is 
        not in session) beginning with the day following the day on 
        which the waiver resolution is so referred, accompanied by the 
        committee's recommendations and reasons for the recommendations 
        with respect to the waiver resolution. If the Committee on the 
        Budget of the House of Representatives does not report a waiver 
        resolution within the 10-day period under this paragraph, the 
        committee shall automatically be discharged from further 
        consideration of the waiver resolution and the waiver 
        resolution shall be placed on the calendar.
            (3) Debate restrictions.--During the consideration of any 
        waiver resolution, debate shall be limited to 1 hour, to be 
        equally divided between, and controlled by, the Speaker of the 
        House of Representatives and minority leader of the House of 
        Representatives or their designees, and the time on any 
        debatable motion or appeal shall be limited to 20 minutes, to 
        be equally divided between, and controlled by the mover and the 
        manager of the waiver resolution. In the event the manager of 
        the waiver resolution is in favor of any such motion or appeal, 
        the time in opposition shall be controlled by the minority 
        leader or a designee. The leaders, or either of them, may, from 
        the time under their control on the passage of the waiver 
        resolution, allot additional time to any Representative during 
        the consideration of the debatable motion or appeal.
            (4) Voting.--If a waiver resolution is agreed to by the 
        House of Representatives, section 3(a)(1) shall not apply with 
        respect to the bill or resolution to which the waiver 
        resolution relates.
            (5) Oversight hearing.--Whenever any bill or resolution is 
        reported by a committee under paragraph (1), the report 
        accompanying the bill or resolution shall contain a schedule of 
        oversight hearings by the committee to determine progress being 
        made toward the intended objectives of the program for which 
        the authorization is being made.

SEC. 5. ANALYSIS, APPRAISAL, AND EVALUATION OF EXISTING PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--No committee of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives may report a bill or resolution authorizing the 
enactment of new budget authority for a program for which an 
authorization of new budget authority has previously been enacted until 
the committee has conducted an analysis, appraisal, and evaluation of 
the program for which continued new budget authority is proposed to be 
authorized. If the authorization of the enactment of new budget 
authority for any program is enacted for a period of less than 4 fiscal 
years, the analysis, appraisal, and evaluation of that program required 
by this section is only required before reporting legislation that 
would extend the authorization of the enactment of new budget authority 
for the fifth fiscal year commencing after the effective date of this 
Act and every 4 years thereafter.
    (b) Committee Report.--The results of the analysis, appraisal, and 
evaluation under subsection (a) shall be included in the committee 
report on the bill or resolution.
    (c) Agency Report.--Whenever a committee of the Senate or the House 
of Representatives is conducting an analysis, appraisal, and evaluation 
of a program, the head of the agency which administers the program, or 
any part thereof, shall submit to the committee, upon request of the 
chairman or ranking member of the committee, an analysis, appraisal, 
and evaluation of the program.
    (d) Joint Hearing.--The committees of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives having jurisdiction of a program may conduct jointly 
the analysis, appraisal, and evaluation required by this section and 
may conduct joint hearings.
    (e) Committee Report.--
            (1) In general.--The report of a committee on the analysis, 
        appraisal, and evaluation of a program shall be sufficiently 
        complete to permit a determination as to whether the program 
        should be terminated, modified, or continued without change, 
        and shall include--
                    (A) an identification of the objectives intended 
                for the program and the problem or need which the 
                program was intended to address;
                    (B) whether the program objectives are still 
                relevant;
                    (C) whether the program has adhered to the original 
                and intended purpose;
                    (D) whether the program has made any substantial 
                progress toward meeting the objectives originally 
                intended;
                    (E) the impact of the program on the economy;
                    (F) the feasibility of alternative programs and 
                methods, including tax expenditures, for meeting the 
                objectives of the program under consideration and their 
                cost effectiveness;
                    (G) the relation of all other Government and 
                private programs dealing with the objectives of the 
                program under consideration, including tax expenditure 
                programs;
                    (H) an examination of proposed legislation pending 
                in either House seeking to achieve the same or related 
                objectives; and
                    (I) whether the program should be extended and the 
                further benefits that may be achieved thereby, 
                including--
                            (i) an identification of the objectives 
                        intended for the program and the problem or the 
                        need that the program is intended to address;
                            (ii) an assessment of the consequences of 
                        eliminating the program, of consolidating it 
                        with another program, or of funding it at a 
                        lower level; and
                            (iii) an analysis of the services and 
                        performance estimated to be achieved if the 
                        program were continued, including an estimate 
                        of when, and the conditions under which, the 
                        program will have fulfilled the objectives for 
                        which the program was established.
            (2) Sources of information.--In preparing a report under 
        paragraph (1), a committee shall evaluate--
                    (A) information in reports, plans, goals, and 
                progress reviews required under sections 306 and 1115 
                through 1125 of title 31, United States Code;
                    (B) information in reports by the Comptroller 
                General of the United States, including the annual 
                report by the Comptroller General regarding 
                opportunities to reduce duplication, overlap, and 
                fragmentation, achieve savings, and enhance revenue; 
                and
                    (C) other information determined appropriate by the 
                committee.
            (3) Point of order.--
                    (A) In general.--It shall not be in order in either 
                the Senate or the House of Representatives to consider 
                a bill or resolution authorizing the enactment of new 
                budget authority for a program for which an 
                authorization of new budget authority has previously 
                been enacted unless the bill or resolution is 
                accompanied by a report described in paragraph (1).
                    (B) Waiver of point of order.--In the Senate, a 
                point of order raised under this paragraph may be 
                waived upon an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the 
                Members duly chosen and sworn and debate on all motions 
                to waive 1 or more points of order under this paragraph 
                as to a bill or resolution shall be debatable for a 
                total of not more than 1 hour, equally divided between 
                the Senator raising the point of order and the Senator 
                moving to waive the point of order or their designees.
    (f) Combined Report.--For the purposes of making the analysis, 
appraisal, and evaluation required by this section, a committee may 
combine related programs and may issue 1 report on all such combined 
programs.

SEC. 6. AUTHORIZATION FOR NEW PROGRAMS.

    Whenever any committee of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives reports legislation authorizing the enactment of new 
budget authority for a program for which there has previously been no 
authorization, the committee shall include in the report accompanying 
the legislation--
            (1) an identification of the objectives and purposes of the 
        new program and the problems or needs that the new program is 
        intended to address;
            (2) a description of other programs which seek to 
        accomplish the same general purpose or purposes;
            (3) whether the program will conflict with, overlap, or 
        duplicate any existing programs and, if the program will 
        conflict with, overlap, or duplicate an existing program, a 
        discussion of how the program will work with the existing 
        program;
            (4) how the program will operate with existing programs to 
        promote the common objective or objectives of all similar 
        programs;
            (5) the consequences of failing to achieve the purposes of 
        the new program;
            (6) what other alternatives, including tax expenditures and 
        private resources, were considered as alternatives and why the 
        alternatives were not recommended;
            (7) what changes were considered in existing programs to 
        coordinate the programs with the new program and the reasons 
        for changing or not changing existing programs;
            (8) a projection of the anticipated needs for and 
        accomplishments of the program, including an estimate of when, 
        and the condition under which, the program will have fulfilled 
        the objectives for which the program was established; and
            (9) a statement of the constitutional authority pursuant to 
        which the bill or joint resolution is to be enacted.

SEC. 7. CONFERENCE REPORTS ON AUTHORIZATION BILLS.

    The joint explanatory statement accompanying a conference report on 
any bill or resolution authorizing the enactment of new budget 
authority for any program in connection with which an analysis, 
appraisal, and evaluation has been conducted under section 5 or 6 shall 
include an analysis of the objectives intended for the program and the 
problems or needs which the program is intended to address, based on 
the bill or resolution as recommended in the conference report.

SEC. 8. PHASEOUT OF EXISTING PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--If a continued authorization of the enactment of 
new budget authority for a program has been adopted by the Senate or 
the House of Representatives, and has not become law as of the date on 
which the authorization in effect expires (unless the failure to become 
law has been due to a rejection of a proposed authorization by the 
other House), there is authorized to be enacted for the program--
            (1) for the first fiscal year following the expiration of 
        the previous authorization, 80 percent of the amount 
        appropriated to carry out the program in the previous fiscal 
        year; and
            (2) for the second fiscal year following such expiration, 
        60 percent of the amount appropriated to carry out the program 
        in the previous fiscal year.
    (b) New Authorization.--If at any time following the expiration of 
an authorization of the enactment of new budget authority for a program 
a new authorization for the program is provided by law, then the new 
authorization shall replace the authorization provided in subsection 
(a).
    (c) Repeal of Authorization.--If a program for which an 
authorization of the enactment of new budget authority has previously 
been made is repealed, subsection (a) shall not apply to the program.
    (d) Programs Without an Authorization.--For any program for which 
no new budget authority is authorized to be enacted for a fiscal year 
(including an authorization under subsection (a)), the head of the 
agency carrying out the program shall develop and implement a plan to 
provide for--
            (1) the transfer or other disposition of the records, 
        property, and personnel affected by the termination of the 
        program;
            (2) the transfer of such unexpended balances of 
        appropriations, and of other funds, available for use in 
        connection with the program; and
            (3) terminating the activities under the program.

SEC. 9. TERMINATION OF CERTAIN EXISTING AUTHORIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--It shall not be in order in either the Senate or 
the House of Representatives to consider a bill, resolution, amendment, 
or conference report making appropriations for a fiscal year which 
begins 5 years after the effective date of this Act if the 
appropriation is made pursuant to a law, in effect on the effective 
date of this Act, authorizing new budget authority for a period of more 
than 4 fiscal years or for an unspecified number of fiscal years.
    (b) Waiver of Point of Order.--In the Senate, a point of order 
raised under this section may be waived upon an affirmative vote of 
three-fifths of the Members duly chosen and sworn.
    (c) Point of Order Sustained.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), if a 
        point of order under this section is sustained, the matter as 
        to which the point of order is raised shall be stricken.
            (2) Conference reports.--When a House of Congress is 
        considering a conference report or an amendment between the 
        Houses, upon a point of order under this section being 
        sustained as to matter in the conference report or amendment, 
        such material shall be deemed stricken, and the House of 
        Congress shall proceed to consider the question of whether the 
        House shall recede from its amendment and concur with a further 
        amendment, or concur in the amendment of the other House of 
        Congress with a further amendment, as the case may be, which 
        further amendment shall consist of only that portion of the 
        conference report or amendment, as the case may be, not so 
        stricken. In any case in which such point of order is sustained 
        against a conference report (or proposed amendment derived from 
        such conference report by operation of this paragraph), no 
        further amendment shall be in order.

SEC. 10. LACK OF AUTHORIZATION.

    (a) In General.--It shall not be in order in either the Senate or 
the House of Representatives to consider a bill or resolution making 
appropriations for a program for the first fiscal year beginning more 
than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act or any fiscal year 
thereafter if the appropriation is not made pursuant to a law in effect 
authorizing new budget authority for the program.
    (b) Point of Order.--In the Senate, a point of order under this 
section may be raised by a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of the 
Congressional Budget Act of 1974. A point of order under this section 
may be waived in accordance with the procedures under section 313(e) of 
the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 upon an affirmative vote of three-
fifths of the Members duly chosen and sworn.
    (c) Conference Reports.--When the Senate is considering a 
conference report on, or an amendment between the Houses in relation 
to, a bill or joint resolution, upon a point of order being made by any 
Senator pursuant to subsection (b), and such point of order being 
sustained, such material contained in such conference report or House 
amendment shall be stricken, and the Senate shall proceed to consider 
the question of whether the Senate shall recede from its amendment and 
concur with a further amendment, or concur in the House amendment with 
a further amendment, as the case may be, which further amendment shall 
consist of only that portion of the conference report or House 
amendment, as the case may be, not so stricken. Any such motion in the 
Senate shall be debatable. In any case in which such point of order is 
sustained against a conference report (or Senate amendment derived from 
such conference report by operation of this paragraph), no further 
amendment shall be in order.

SEC. 11. REPORTS ON PROPOSED IMPLEMENTATION.

    (a) In the Senate.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the effective 
        date of this Act, each committee of the Senate shall file with 
        the Senate a report--
                    (A) indicating the schedule, procedure, and content 
                of the analysis, appraisal, and evaluation that the 
                committee intends to use to implement this Act, with 
                particular emphasis on implementation of sections 5 and 
                6; and
                    (B) making any recommendations for how to implement 
                procedures comparable to the procedures under this Act 
                for direct spending (as defined under section 250(c)(8) 
                of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
                Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8))) and tax expenditures 
                (as defined in section 3(3) of the Congressional Budget 
                Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 622(3))).
            (2) Referral.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
        referred to the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
        Senate which shall hold such hearings as the committee 
        determines necessary. Following a review of the reports, the 
        Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate may report 
        to the Senate changes in the Standing Rules of the Senate to 
        provide uniform standards for the implementation of this Act 
        and the requirements for the analysis, appraisal, and 
        evaluation of programs.
    (b) In the House of Representatives.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the effective 
        date of this Act, each committee of the House of 
        Representatives shall file with the House of Representatives a 
        report--
                    (A) indicating the schedule, procedure, and content 
                of the analysis, appraisal, and evaluation that the 
                committee intends to use to implement this Act; and
                    (B) making any recommendations for how to implement 
                procedures comparable to the procedures under this Act 
                for direct spending (as defined under section 250(c)(8) 
                of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
                Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900(c)(8))) and tax expenditures 
                (as defined in section 3(3) of the Congressional Budget 
                Act of 1974 (2 U.S.C. 622(3))).
            (2) Referral.--Each report under this subsection shall be 
        referred to the Committee on House Administration of the House 
        of Representatives which shall hold such hearings as the 
        committee determines necessary. Following a review of the 
        reports, the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
        Representatives may report to the House of Representatives 
        changes in the Rules of the House of Representatives to provide 
        uniform standards for the implementation of this Act and the 
        requirements for the analysis, appraisal, and evaluation of 
        programs.

SEC. 12. AUTHORIZATIONS UNDER IMPLEMENTATION REPORTS.

    (a) Covered Program.--In this section, the term ``covered program'' 
means a program for which--
            (1) the report of a committee of Congress with jurisdiction 
        of the program submitted under section 11 includes a schedule 
        to enact a law authorizing the enactment of new budget 
        authority for the program, which may not be for a period of 
        more than 4 fiscal years;
            (2) funds are appropriated during the fiscal year during 
        which this Act takes effect; and
            (3) an authorization of the enactment of new budget 
        authority is not in effect.
    (b) Authorization.--Except as provided in subsection (c), for 
purposes of enforcing section 10 in relation to a covered program, a 
law shall be deemed to be in effect authorizing the enactment of new 
budget authority for the covered program for each fiscal year for which 
a law authorizing the enactment of new budget authority is scheduled to 
be enacted under the schedule in the applicable report described in 
subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Exception.--Subsection (b) shall not apply to a covered program 
if the schedule in the applicable report described in subsection (a)(1) 
specifies that--
            (1) the fourth fiscal year covered by the schedule will be 
        the first fiscal year for which a law authorizing the enactment 
        of new budget authority is scheduled to be enacted for more 
        than 50 percent of the programs within the jurisdiction of the 
        committee; or
            (2) less than 20 percent of the programs within the 
        jurisdiction of the committee are scheduled for a law to be 
        enacted authorizing the enactment of new budget authority 
        during the first or second fiscal year covered by the schedule.
    (d) Submission for the Record.--Not later than 5 legislative days 
after the date on which a committee of the Senate or the House of 
Representatives submits a report under section 11 that includes a 
schedule to enact a law authorizing the enactment of new budget 
authority, the Chairman of the Committee on Rules and Administration or 
the Chairman of the Committee on House Administration of the House of 
Representatives, respectively, shall submit the schedule for printing 
in the Congressional Record.

SEC. 13. REFERRAL OF BILLS OR RESOLUTIONS MODIFYING THIS ACT.

    (a) Referral in the Senate.--In the Senate, any bill or joint 
resolution that modifies this Act shall be referred to the Committee on 
the Budget of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs.
    (b) Referral in the House of Representatives.--In the House of 
Representatives, any bill or joint resolution that modifies this Act 
shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform.

SEC. 14. ASSISTANCE TO SENATE AND HOUSE COMMITTEES.

    (a) Assistance From the Comptroller General.--At the request of the 
chairman or ranking member of any committee of the Senate or the House 
of Representatives, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
furnish to such committee information, analyses, and reports to assist 
the committee in carrying out the duties of the committee under this 
Act.
    (b) Assistance From the Congressional Budget Office.--Consistent 
with the discharge by the Congressional Budget Office of the duties and 
functions of the Congressional Budget Office under the Congressional 
Budget Act of 1974, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office 
shall, at the request of the chairman or ranking member of any 
committee of the Senate or the House of Representatives, furnish to the 
committee information and analyses to assist the committee in carrying 
out the duties of the committee under this Act.
    (c) Assistance From the Congressional Research Service.--At the 
request of the chairman or ranking member of any committee of the 
Senate or House of Representatives, the Director of the Congressional 
Research Service shall furnish to the committee information, analyses, 
and reports to assist the committee in carrying out the duties of the 
committee under this Act.

SEC. 15. EFFECTIVE DATE.

    This Act shall take effect on the first day of the first regular 
session of Congress which begins after the date of enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 16. RULEMAKING.

    This section and sections 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13 
of this Act are enacted by Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
        and the House of Representatives, respectively, and as such 
        they shall be considered as part of the rules of each House, 
        respectively, or of that House to which they specifically 
        apply; and such rules shall supersede other rules only to the 
        extent that they are inconsistent therewith; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change such rules (so far as relating to such 
        House) at any time, in the same, manner, and to the same extent 
        as in the case of any other rule of such House.
                                 <all>
