[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 273 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 273

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 20, 2015.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 2262) to facilitate a pro-growth environment for the developing 
commercial space industry by encouraging private sector investment and creating 
more stable and predictable regulatory conditions, and for other purposes. The 
first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
or their respective designees. After general debate the bill shall be considered 
for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
now printed in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as an original bill 
for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the 
nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-17. 
That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. 
No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the 
order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the 
report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified 
in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, 
shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for 
division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All 
points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may 
demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of 
the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in 
order as original text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion 
except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 880) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
simplify and make permanent the research credit. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the 
bill, modified by the amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of May 21, 
2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules as 
though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his designee shall consult with 
the Minority Leader or her designee on the designation of any matter for 
consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 4.  The Committee on Appropriations may, at any time before 5 p.m. on 
Wednesday, May 27, 2015, file privileged reports to accompany measures making 
appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016.
    Sec. 5.  On any legislative day during the period from May 22, 2015, through 
May 29, 2015--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 6.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 5 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
