[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1475 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1475

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
  To authorize a Wall of Remembrance as part of the Korean War Veterans 
Memorial and to allow certain private contributions to fund that Wall of 
                              Remembrance.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Korean War Veterans Memorial Wall of 
Remembrance Act''.
SEC. 2. WALL OF REMEMBRANCE.
    (a) Authorization.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 8908(c) of title 40, 
    United States Code, the Korean War Veterans Memorial Foundation, 
    Inc., may construct a Wall of Remembrance at the site of the Korean 
    War Veterans Memorial.
        (2) Requirement.--
            (A) In general.--The Wall of Remembrance shall include a 
        list of names of members of the Armed Forces of the United 
        States who died in the Korean War, as determined by the 
        Secretary of Defense, in accordance with subparagraph (B).
            (B) Criteria; submission to the secretary of the 
        interior.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
                (i) establish eligibility criteria for the inclusion of 
            names on the Wall of Remembrance under subparagraph (A); 
            and
                (ii) provide to the Secretary of the Interior a final 
            list of names for inclusion on the Wall of Remembrance 
            under subparagraph (A) that meet the criteria established 
            under clause (i).
        (3) Additional information.--The Wall of Remembrance may 
    include other information about the Korean War, including the 
    number of members of the Armed Forces of the United States, the 
    Korean Augmentation to the United States Army, the Republic of 
    Korea Armed Forces, and the other nations of the United Nations 
    Command who, in regards to the Korean War--
            (A) were killed in action;
            (B) were wounded in action;
            (C) are listed as missing in action; or
            (D) were prisoners of war.
    (b) Commemorative Works Act.--Except as provided in subsection 
(a)(1), chapter 89 of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as 
the ``Commemorative Works Act''), shall apply.
    (c) No Federal Funds.--No Federal funds may be used to construct 
the Wall of Remembrance.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
