[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 789 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 789

    To establish the Social Work Reinvestment Commission to provide 
 independent counsel to Congress and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services on policy issues related to recruitment, retention, research, 
   and reinvestment in the profession of social work, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 18, 2015

 Ms. Mikulski introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
  referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
    To establish the Social Work Reinvestment Commission to provide 
 independent counsel to Congress and the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services on policy issues related to recruitment, retention, research, 
   and reinvestment in the profession of social work, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Dorothy I. Height 
and Whitney M. Young, Jr., Social Work Reinvestment Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
              TITLE I--SOCIAL WORK REINVESTMENT COMMISSION

Sec. 101. Establishment.
Sec. 102. Members.
Sec. 103. Duties.
Sec. 104. Powers.
Sec. 105. Compensation.
Sec. 106. Termination.
TITLE II--REINVESTMENT GRANT PROGRAMS TO SUPPORT SOCIAL WORK PROFESSION

Sec. 201. Workplace improvement grants.
Sec. 202. Research grants.
Sec. 203. Education and training grants.
Sec. 204. Community-based programs of excellence grants.
Sec. 205. National coordinating center.
Sec. 206. Multimedia outreach campaign.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Although the poverty rate in the United States has 
        slightly declined for the first time since 2006, to 14.5 
        percent in 2013, poverty remains a social issue for our Nation, 
        especially for communities of color and women and children, who 
        continue to experience higher than average poverty rates. 
        Homeowners and those seeking to become homeowners continue to 
        face challenges with high mortgage delinquency, mortgage loan 
        interest rates, and threats of foreclosure. Joblessness and 
        economic insecurity contribute to the incidence of mental 
        illness, family violence, suicide, substance abuse, crime, and 
        diminished capacity for health, family, and community 
        functioning.
            (2) Social workers form society's social safety net. Social 
        workers provide assistance, guidance, and resources to 
        individuals, families, and communities in poverty. 
        Additionally, social workers understand the devastating costs 
        and consequences of poverty and unemployment on our society and 
        provide direct services in order to prevent and abate economic 
        inequality.
            (3) The Bureau of Labor Statistics projects that the social 
        work profession will grow at an above-average rate through the 
        year 2020, with a 19-percent growth rate overall and a 27-
        percent projected growth rate for health care social workers. 
        This increase is faster than the average for all occupations, 
        demonstrating a substantial need for social workers in our 
        Nation.
            (4) Social work salaries, on average, are among the lowest 
        for all occupations in the United States and for those with a 
        master's degree in particular. According to the Bureau of Labor 
        Statistics, the median annual income for social workers in 2012 
        was $44,200.
            (5) The report titled ``2013 Statistics on Social Work 
        Education in the United States'' by the Council on Social Work 
        Education stated that 80.5 percent of students graduating from 
        Master of Social Work programs incurred debt to earn their 
        graduate degree. The average debt for a Master of Social Work 
        degree was approximately $41,754.
            (6) Social workers often deal with the most vulnerable 
        clients in emotional or traumatic situations, and face possible 
        danger as a result. The National Association of Social Workers 
        Center for Workforce Studies found that 44 percent of survey 
        respondents faced personal safety issues on the job. The 
        Occupational Safety and Health Administration states that 48 
        percent of assaults occur in the health care and social 
        services industry.
            (7) The Alzheimer's Association of America states that 
        5,000,000 Americans, or 1 in every 9 individuals over the age 
        of 65, have Alzheimer's disease. Social workers in gerontology 
        settings work with older adults, including those with dementia, 
        to support their physiological, psychological, and social needs 
        through mental health therapy, caregiver and family counseling, 
        health education, program coordination, and case management.
            (8) The Children's Defense Fund states that every 47 
        seconds a child is confirmed as abused or neglected and every 5 
        and a half hours a child is killed from abuse or neglect. The 
        Administration for Children and Families of the Department of 
        Health and Human Services states that 402,378 children were in 
        the United States foster care system in 2013. Most children 
        placed in foster care are placed due to parental abuse or 
        neglect. Research shows that professional social workers 
        employed in child welfare agencies are more likely to find 
        permanent homes for children who have been in foster care for 2 
        or more years. Unfortunately, less than 40 percent of child 
        welfare workers are professional social workers.
            (9) The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
        Administration of the Department of Health and Human Services 
        estimates that 43,800,000 individuals (nearly 1 in 5) in the 
        United States who are age 18 or older experienced a diagnosable 
        mental illness in 2013. Additionally, at least 2,600,000 (1 in 
        10) youth between the ages of 12 and 17 experienced major 
        depressive episodes. Social workers provide the majority of 
        mental health counseling services in the United States, and are 
        often the only providers of such services in rural areas.
            (10) Social workers working with veterans and their 
        families provide services that include case management, crisis 
        interventions, mental health interventions, housing and 
        financial counseling, high-risk screening, and advocacy. The 
        Department of Veterans Affairs, which is the largest employer 
        of social workers in the Nation, employs 11,000 social workers 
        who serve an estimated 21,999,000 veterans in the United 
        States. A once-declining veteran population is now surging and 
        is in dire need of mental health treatment to address issues 
        such as post-traumatic stress disorder, depression, drug and 
        alcohol addiction, and suicidal tendencies.
            (11) The American Cancer Society estimates that there will 
        be 1,658,370 new cases of cancer and 589,430 deaths from 
        cancer, or 1,614 deaths a day, in 2015 alone. The Centers for 
        Disease Control and Prevention report that there are over 
        1,200,000 people living with HIV/AIDS in the United States, 
        with approximately 47,500 new cases diagnosed each year. In 
        2013, 1,500,000 to 1,600,000 people received care from the 
        Nation's hospice providers. Health care and medical social 
        workers practice in areas related to all of these circumstances 
        and provide outreach for prevention and health promotion, help 
        individuals and their families adapt to their health 
        conditions, connect patients and family caregivers with 
        community services and supports, provide grief counseling, and 
        act as a liaison between individuals and their medical team, 
        helping patients make informed decisions about their care.
            (12) The Children's Defense Fund notes that every 2 seconds 
        a public school student is suspended and that every 9 seconds a 
        high school student drops out. The National Center for 
        Education Statistics states that in 2012 the national dropout 
        rate for high school students was 7 percent. Some vulnerable 
        communities have dropout rates of 50 percent or higher. Social 
        workers in school settings help students avoid dropping out 
        through early identification, prevention, intervention, 
        counseling, and support services.
            (13) According to the Department of Justice, every year 
        more than 688,000 ex-offenders are released from Federal and 
        State prisons. Social workers employed in the correctional 
        system address disproportionate minority incarceration rates, 
        provide treatment for mental health problems and drug and 
        alcohol addiction, and work within, as well as outside of, 
        prisons to reduce recidivism and increase positive community 
        reentry.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Clinical social worker.--The term ``clinical social 
        worker'' has the meaning given the term in section 1861(hh)(1) 
        of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(hh)(1)).
            (2) Community-based program.--The term ``community-based 
        program'' means an agency, organization, or other entity 
        carrying out a program that provides direct social work 
        services or community development services at a neighborhood, 
        local, or regional level, to address human service, health 
        care, or psychosocial needs.
            (3) High need and high demand population.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``high need and high 
                demand population'' means a group of individuals that 
                lacks sufficient resources and, as a result, has a 
                greater probability of being harmed by specific social, 
                environmental, or health problems than the population 
                as a whole.
                    (B) Group.--For purposes of this paragraph, the 
                term ``group'' includes a population residing in a 
                health professional shortage area, as defined in 
                section 332 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
                254E), that has a shortage of primary medical care, 
                dental, or mental health providers.
            (4) Historically black college or university.--The term 
        ``historically Black college or university'' has the meaning 
        given the term ``part B institution'' in section 322(2) of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1061(2)).
            (5) Minority-serving institution.--The term ``minority-
        serving institution'' means an institution of higher education 
        that serves a large percentage of minority students, as 
        determined by the Secretary of Education, including the 
        following:
                    (A) Alaska Native-serving institutions, as defined 
                in section 317(b)(2) of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1059d(b)(2)).
                    (B) Native Hawaiian-serving institutions, as 
                defined in section 317(b)(4) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 
                1059d(b)(4)).
                    (C) Asian American and Native American Pacific 
                Islander-serving institutions, as defined in section 
                320(b)(2) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059g(b)(2)).
                    (D) Hispanic-serving institutions, as defined in 
                section 502(a)(5) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1101a(a)(5)).
                    (E) Tribal colleges or universities, as defined in 
                section 316(b)(3) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059c(b)(3)).
                    (F) Native American-serving, nontribal 
                institutions, as defined in section 319(b)(2) of such 
                Act (20 U.S.C. 1059f(b)(2)).
                    (G) Predominantly Black Institutions, as defined in 
                section 318(b)(6) of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1059e(b)(6)).
                    (H) Historically Black colleges or universities.
            (6) Program of excellence.--The term ``program of 
        excellence'' means a program of distinction in a field related 
        to human service, hosted by a public or private agency, that 
        has received State or national recognition or another clearly 
        defined indicator appropriate to the mission of the program, 
        has clearly defined and measurable goals and objectives, 
        regularly assesses outcomes, and can provide evidence of a 
        strong assessment plan that utilizes assessment data to improve 
        the program.
            (7) Related professional researcher.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``related professional 
                researcher'' means a doctoral level researcher or any 
                other individual who is professionally engaged in 
                research in a social, political, economic, health, or 
                mental health field other than social work.
                    (B) Research.--In this paragraph, the term 
                ``research'' means study of a type that is primarily 
                conducted under the auspices of an institution of 
                higher education, government entity, research 
                institute, community agency, or a similar entity.
            (8) School of social work.--The term ``school of social 
        work'' means a school that is accredited by the Council on 
        Social Work Education (the sole accrediting agency recognized 
        by the Council for Higher Education Accreditation for social 
        work education in the United States) within an institution of 
        higher education, that offers baccalaureate, master's, or 
        doctoral degrees in social work.
            (9) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services.
            (10) Social work.--The term ``social work'' means--
                    (A) the professional activity of helping 
                individuals, families, groups, or communities enhance 
                or restore capacity for social and psychosocial 
                functioning and creating societal conditions favorable 
                to such enhancement or restoration;
                    (B) the professional application of values, 
                principles, and techniques related to the activity 
                described in subparagraph (A), including--
                            (i) diagnosing mental and emotional 
                        disorders and treating individuals, families, 
                        or groups for such disorders;
                            (ii) helping communities or groups provide 
                        or improve social and health services and 
                        participating in relevant legislative processes 
                        to achieve such goals; and
                            (iii) helping individuals, families, 
                        groups, or communities obtain tangible 
                        services, including personal, protective, 
                        informational, advisory, community, or 
                        maintenance services in order to improve the 
                        overall well-being of individuals; and
                    (C) a professional activity that requires knowledge 
                of human development, the behavior of social, economic, 
                and cultural institutions, and the interaction between 
                such development and behavior.
            (11) Social work researcher.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``social work 
                researcher'' means an individual who researches social 
                work at an individual, family, group, community, 
                organizational, or policy level, focusing across the 
                human life span on prevention, treatment, and aftercare 
                of, intervention in, and rehabilitation from, acute and 
                chronic social and psychosocial conditions, including 
                the study of the effect of policies on social work 
                practice.
                    (B) Research.--In this paragraph, the term 
                ``research'' means study of a type that is primarily 
                conducted by faculty members of an institution of 
                higher education, doctoral level researchers, or any 
                other individuals who are professionally engaged in the 
                study of social work under the auspices of an 
                institution of higher education, government entity, 
                research institute, community agency, or a similar 
                entity.
            (12) Social worker.--The term ``social worker'' means an 
        individual who--
                    (A) has a baccalaureate, master's, or doctoral 
                degree in social work from an institution of higher 
                education; and
                    (B) uses knowledge and skills to provide social 
                work services for individuals, families, groups, 
                communities, organizations, or society in general.

              TITLE I--SOCIAL WORK REINVESTMENT COMMISSION

SEC. 101. ESTABLISHMENT.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall establish the Social Work Reinvestment Commission 
(referred to in this title as the ``Commission'') to provide 
independent counsel to Congress and the Secretary on policy issues 
related to recruitment, retention, research, and reinvestment in the 
profession of social work.

SEC. 102. MEMBERS.

    (a) Appointment by Secretary.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall appoint members 
to the Commission. The members shall include--
            (1) 2 deans of schools of social work;
            (2) 1 social work researcher;
            (3) 1 related professional researcher;
            (4) 1 Governor of a State;
            (5) 2 leaders of national social work organizations;
            (6) 1 senior State government employee who is not an 
        elected official who has a baccalaureate, master's, or doctoral 
        degree in social work;
            (7) 2 directors of community-based organizations or 
        nonprofit organizations that provide human services;
            (8) 1 labor economist;
            (9) 1 social work consumer; and
            (10) 1 licensed clinical social worker.
    (b) Appointment by Other Officers.--Four additional members shall 
be appointed to the Commission, with 1 member appointed by each of the 
following officers:
            (1) The Speaker of the House of Representatives.
            (2) The minority leader of the House of Representatives.
            (3) The majority leader of the Senate.
            (4) The minority leader of the Senate.
    (c) Organizational Representation.--To the extent practicable, 
members of the Commission shall be appointed--
            (1) in a manner that ensures participation of individuals 
        of different racial, ethnic, cultural, geographic, religious, 
        linguistic, and class backgrounds and of different genders and 
        sexual orientations; and
            (2) from among individuals who demonstrate knowledge and 
        understanding of the concerns of the groups described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (d) Selection of Chairperson and Vice Chairperson.--The Secretary 
shall appoint a Chairperson and Vice Chairperson for the Commission 
from among the members of the Commission.
    (e) Period of Appointment; Vacancies.--Members shall be appointed 
for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall not 
affect the powers of the Commission and shall be filled in the same 
manner as the original appointment not later than 60 days after the 
date of vacancy.
    (f) Schedule of Meetings.--The Commission shall hold its first 
meeting not later than 6 weeks after the date on which the final member 
of the Commission is appointed, and subsequent meetings shall be held 
at the call of the Chairperson.

SEC. 103. DUTIES.

    (a) Study.--The Commission shall conduct a comprehensive study to 
examine and assess--
            (1) the professional capacity of the social work workforce 
        to successfully serve and respond to the increasing 
        biopsychosocial needs of individuals, groups, and communities 
        in areas related to--
                    (A) aging;
                    (B) child welfare;
                    (C) military and veterans affairs;
                    (D) mental and behavioral health and disability;
                    (E) criminal justice and correctional systems;
                    (F) health and other issues affecting women and 
                families; and
                    (G) other topics identified by the Commission;
            (2) workforce challenges facing the profession of social 
        work, including high educational debt, lack of fair market 
        compensation, the need to translate social work research to 
        practice, the need to improve social worker safety, the need to 
        develop State-level social work licensure policies and 
        reciprocity agreements for social workers providing services 
        across State lines, the lack of diversity in the social work 
        profession, and any other issue determined by the Secretary to 
        be appropriate;
            (3) the effect of such challenges on the recruitment and 
        retention of social workers;
            (4) the effect of such challenges and of social worker 
        shortages on the needs of clients served by social workers; and
            (5) the advisability of establishing grants to provide 
        direct assistance to local governments to encourage the 
        engagement of social workers in social service programs.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
Commission's first meeting, the Commission shall submit a report to the 
Secretary and to Congress containing specific findings and conclusions 
regarding the need to recruit and retain social workers, to conduct 
research on the social work profession, and to reinvest in the 
profession. The report shall include recommendations and strategies for 
corrective actions to ensure a robust social work workforce capable of 
keeping up with the demand for services. The Commission may provide to 
the Secretary and to Congress any additional findings or 
recommendations considered by the Commission to be important.

SEC. 104. POWERS.

    (a) Powers.--In carrying out the duties of the Commission, the 
Commission shall have the power to--
            (1) hold hearings, take testimony, receive evidence, 
        administer oaths, and sit and act at such times and places as 
        the Commission considers advisable;
            (2) enter into contracts; and
            (3) consult, to the extent that the Commission determines 
        that such consultation is necessary or useful, with Federal 
        agencies that include--
                    (A) agencies within the Department of Health and 
                Human Services, including the Administration for 
                Children and Families, the Administration on Aging, the 
                Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, the Centers 
                for Disease Control and Prevention, the Centers for 
                Medicare & Medicaid Services, the Health Resources and 
                Services Administration, the Indian Health Service, the 
                National Institutes of Health, and the Substance Abuse 
                and Mental Health Services Administration;
                    (B) the Social Security Administration; and
                    (C) the Departments of Agriculture, Defense, 
                Education, Homeland Security, Labor, Justice, State, 
                and Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Cooperation With the Commission.--The agencies described in 
subsection (a)(3) shall cooperate with, and provide counsel to, the 
Commission to the greatest extent practicable.

SEC. 105. COMPENSATION.

    (a) Travel Expenses.--The members of the Commission shall not 
receive compensation for the performance of services for the 
Commission, but shall be provided travel expenses, including per diem 
in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees of Federal 
agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States 
Code, while away from their homes or regular places of business in the 
performance of services for the Commission.
    (b) Voluntary and Uncompensated Services.--Notwithstanding section 
1342 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary may accept the 
voluntary and uncompensated services of members of the Commission.
    (c) Detail of Government Employees.--Any Federal Government 
employee may be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement, and 
such detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service 
status or privilege.

SEC. 106. TERMINATION.

    The Commission shall terminate 30 days after the date on which the 
Commission submits the report under section 103(b).

TITLE II--REINVESTMENT GRANT PROGRAMS TO SUPPORT SOCIAL WORK PROFESSION

SEC. 201. WORKPLACE IMPROVEMENT GRANTS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary shall award grants to 4 
eligible entities described in subsection (d) to assist the entities in 
carrying out a workplace improvement program to address concerns for 
the social work profession, including caseloads, compensation, social 
worker safety, supervision, and working conditions.
    (b) Equal Amounts.--The Secretary shall award to each of the 4 
grant recipients under this section $1,000,000 per fiscal year for 4 
consecutive fiscal years, beginning with the first fiscal year that 
begins after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Grants to State or Local Governments.--At least 2 of the grant 
recipients under this section shall be agencies of State or local 
governments.
    (d) Eligibility Requirements.--An entity eligible for a grant under 
this section shall--
            (1) work in a social work capacity;
            (2) demonstrate that the entity needs to improve in 1 or 
        more of the workplace concern areas described in subsection 
        (a);
            (3) provide services to individuals of different racial, 
        ethnic, cultural, geographic, religious, linguistic, and class 
        backgrounds, and different genders and sexual orientations;
            (4) demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the concerns 
        of the groups described in paragraph (3); and
            (5) employ individuals who represent themselves as 
        competent to provide social work services only within the 
        boundaries of such individuals' education, training, licenses, 
        certification, professional case consultation, supervised 
        experience, or other relevant professional experience.
    (e) Priority.--In selecting grant recipients under this section, 
the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that--
            (1) have proven to be fiscally responsible, 
        administratively capable, and otherwise equipped to oversee and 
        monitor a workplace improvement program under this section;
            (2) are knowledgeable about relevant social work workforce 
        trends; and
            (3) have not less than 2 years of experience carrying out 
        workplace improvement activities.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 202. RESEARCH GRANTS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary shall award grants to 25 
social workers who hold a doctoral degree in social work for 
postdoctoral research in social work--
            (1) to further the knowledge base about effective social 
        work interventions; and
            (2) to promote usable strategies to translate research into 
        practice across diverse community settings and service systems.
    (b) Equal Amounts.--The Secretary shall award to each of the 25 
grant recipients under this section $50,000 per fiscal year for 4 
consecutive fiscal years, beginning with the first fiscal year that 
begins after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Eligibility Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under 
this section, a social worker shall--
            (1) demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the concerns 
        of individuals from different racial, ethnic, cultural, 
        geographic, religious, linguistic, and class backgrounds, and 
        different genders and sexual orientations;
            (2) represent themselves as competent to provide social 
        work services only within the boundaries of their education, 
        training, licenses, certification, professional case 
        consultation, supervised experience, or other relevant 
        professional experience; and
            (3) hold a doctoral degree in social work.
    (d) Minority Representation.--Not less than 10 of the grant 
recipients under this section shall be employed by a historically Black 
college or university or minority-serving institution.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to 
the Secretary to carry out this section.

SEC. 203. EDUCATION AND TRAINING GRANTS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary shall award grants to 20 
eligible institutions of higher education to support the recruitment 
and education of social work students in baccalaureate, master's, and 
doctoral degree programs and the professional development of social 
work faculty.
    (b) Equal Amounts.--The Secretary shall award to each of the 20 
grant recipients under this section $200,000 per fiscal year for 4 
consecutive fiscal years, beginning with the first fiscal year that 
begins after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Eligibility Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under 
this section, an institution shall demonstrate that--
            (1) the institution enrolls social work students from 
        different racial, ethnic, cultural, geographic, religious, 
        linguistic, and class backgrounds, and different genders and 
        sexual orientations; and
            (2) the institution has knowledge and understanding of the 
        concerns of the groups described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Institutional Requirement.--Not less than 4 of the grant 
recipients under this section shall be historically Black colleges or 
universities or other minority-serving institutions.
    (e) Priority.--In selecting grant recipients under this section, 
the Secretary shall give priority to institutions of higher education 
that--
            (1) are accredited by the Council on Social Work Education;
            (2) have a graduation rate of not less than 80 percent for 
        social work students; and
            (3) exhibit an ability to recruit social workers from, and 
        place social workers in, areas with a high need and high demand 
        population.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $16,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 204. COMMUNITY-BASED PROGRAMS OF EXCELLENCE GRANTS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary shall award grants to 6 
eligible covered entities to test and replicate effective social work 
interventions.
    (b) Covered Entity.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``covered entity'' means--
            (1) a State or local government or a department, agency, 
        special-purpose district, or other instrumentality of a State 
        or local government, that is carrying out a community-based 
        program of excellence; or
            (2) a nonprofit organization that is carrying out a program 
        of excellence.
    (c) Equal Amounts.--The Secretary shall award to each of the 6 
grant recipients under this section $500,000 per fiscal year for 3 
consecutive fiscal years, beginning with the first fiscal year that 
begins after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Eligibility Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under 
this section, a covered entity shall--
            (1) carry out programs in the areas of aging, child 
        welfare, military and veterans issues, mental and behavioral 
        health and disability, criminal justice and correction systems, 
        or health and other issues affecting women and families;
            (2) provide services to individuals of different racial, 
        ethnic, cultural, geographic, religious, linguistic, and class 
        backgrounds, and different genders and sexual orientations;
            (3) demonstrate knowledge and understanding of the concerns 
        of the groups described in paragraph (2);
            (4) demonstrate a record of active participation of social 
        workers in the programs of the entity; and
            (5) employ individuals who represent themselves as 
        competent to provide social work services only within the 
        boundaries of their education, training, licenses, 
        certification, professional case consultation, supervised 
        experience, or other relevant professional experience.
    (e) Priority.--In selecting the grant recipients under this 
section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible covered entities 
that--
            (1) have demonstrated successful and measurable outcomes 
        that the Secretary considers worthy of replication;
            (2) have been in operation for at least 2 years; and
            (3) work with high need and high demand populations.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $9,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to 
carry out this section.

SEC. 205. NATIONAL COORDINATING CENTER.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall enter into a contract with 
a national social work entity such as the National Association of 
Social Workers or the Council on Social Work Education. Such national 
social work entity shall--
            (1) have experience in coordinating the transfer of 
        information and ideas among entities engaged in social work 
        research, practice, education, and policymaking; and
            (2) maintain relationships with Federal entities, social 
        work degree-granting institutions of higher education, 
        departments of social work within such institutions, and 
        organizations and agencies that employ social workers.
    (b) General Duties.--The entity with which the Secretary enters 
into a contract under subsection (a) (referred to in this section as 
the ``coordinating center'') shall--
            (1) organize, collect, and report to the Secretary and to 
        Congress data and information related to the social work 
        profession;
            (2) serve as a clearinghouse; and
            (3) coordinate activities with the entities, institutions, 
        departments, organizations, and agencies described in 
        subsection (a)(2).
    (c) Collaboration.--The coordinating center shall work with 
institutions of higher education, research entities, and organizations 
with social work practice settings, including government entities, 
military departments, elementary and secondary schools, social services 
agencies, private practices, inpatient and outpatient mental health 
service providers, child welfare agencies, correctional facilities, and 
nursing homes, to identify key research areas, establish research 
fellowships, and organize appropriate mentorship and professional 
development efforts.
    (d) Specific Activities of the Coordinating Center.--The 
coordinating center shall--
            (1) engage in activities to build on the efforts of the 
        National Association of Social Workers National Center for 
        Workforce Studies;
            (2) collect, coordinate, monitor, and distribute data and 
        information on best practices and findings regarding the 
        activities funded by grants awarded under sections 201 through 
        204;
            (3) prepare and submit to the Secretary a report that 
        includes recommendations regarding the need to recruit new 
        social workers, retain current social workers, conduct social 
        work research, and reinvest in the profession of social work;
            (4) demonstrate cultural competency and promote the 
        participation of diverse groups; and
            (5) in collaboration with the Secretary, select research 
        topics to further the goals of this section, establish new 
        research fellowships to conduct such research, and identify and 
        appoint qualified individuals to such fellowship positions from 
        among individuals who hold master's or doctoral degrees in 
        social work or are enrolled in master's or doctoral degree 
        programs at schools of social work.
    (e) Powers of Secretary.--The Secretary may conduct and authorize 
such other activities as the Secretary considers appropriate to carry 
out this section.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated $1,000,000 to carry out this section for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2020.

SEC. 206. MULTIMEDIA OUTREACH CAMPAIGN.

    (a) Development and Issuance of Public Service Announcements.--The 
Secretary shall develop and issue public service announcements that 
advertise and promote the social work profession, highlight the 
advantages and rewards of social work, and encourage individuals to 
enter the social work profession.
    (b) Method.--The public service announcements described in 
subsection (a) shall be broadcast through appropriate media outlets, 
including television or radio, in a manner intended to reach as wide 
and diverse of an audience as possible.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section 
for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019.
                                 <all>
