[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 53 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 H. R. 53

To codify an office within the Department of Homeland Security with the 
  mission of strengthening the capacity of the agency to attract and 
retain highly trained computer and information security professionals, 
                        and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                            January 6, 2015

 Ms. Jackson Lee introduced the following bill; which was referred to 
 the Committee on Education and the Workforce, and in addition to the 
Committees on Science, Space, and Technology and Homeland Security, for 
a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To codify an office within the Department of Homeland Security with the 
  mission of strengthening the capacity of the agency to attract and 
retain highly trained computer and information security professionals, 
                        and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Cyber Security 
Education and Federal Workforce Enhancement Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY K-12 EXCELLENCE IN SCIENCE AND 
                               TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 101. Office of Cybersecurity Education and Awareness.
Sec. 102. Science and technology initiative grants.
Sec. 103. Project-based learning program.
Sec. 104. Matching funds for State and privately financed science and 
                            technology after-school programs.
Sec. 105. Science and Technology Board of Advisors.
Sec. 106. Laboratories for science and technology excellence.
  TITLE II--POST-SECONDARY COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SECURITY EDUCATION

Sec. 201. Computing and Information Research Working Group.
Sec. 202. Process for adoption research and a best practices voluntary 
                            guidelines for laboratory facilities.
Sec. 203. Computing and information security mentoring programs for 
                            college students.
Sec. 204. Grants for computer equipment.
Sec. 205. Centers of Academic Computing and Information Assurance.
    TITLE III--FEDERAL WORKFORCE COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SECURITY 
                        PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

Sec. 301. Lifelong learning in computer and information security study.
Sec. 302. Computer and information security job opportunities program.
Sec. 303. Department of Homeland Security Cybersecurity training 
                            programs and equipment.
Sec. 304. E-Security Fellows Program.
                           TITLE IV--RESEARCH

Sec. 401. National Science Foundation study on science and technology 
                            student retention.
Sec. 402. Challenge Grants.
Sec. 403. E-Security Fellows Program.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Department of Homeland Security's Cybersecurity 
        Education & Awareness (CE&A) Branch was established under 
        National Security Presidential Directive-54/Homeland Security 
        Presidential Directive-23, which launched the 2008 
        Comprehensive National Cybersecurity Initiative. There is no 
        appropriations language that references CE&A; it is funded 
        through the Infrastructure Protection and Information Security 
        appropriation under the National Protection and Programs 
        Directorate.
            (2) The Department of Homeland Security's CE&A works with 
        universities to attract top talent through competitive 
        scholarship, fellowship, and internship programs.
            (3) The agency certifies of more than 125 institutions 
        nationwide as National Centers for Academic Excellence to teach 
        students valuable technical skills in various disciplines of 
        Information Assurance.
            (4) The CE&A prepares and makes available computer and 
        information security lesson plans. At the K-12 level, the 
        Department has partnered with USA Today to provide lesson plans 
        about the importance of prevention of computer and digital 
        information crimes at home and in the classroom.
            (5) The agency initiated the IT Security Essential Body of 
        Knowledge (EBK). The National Cybersecurity Division developed 
        the EBK to establish a national baseline of the essential 
        knowledge and skills that IT security practitioners in the 
        public and private sector should have to perform specific roles 
        and responsibilities.
            (6) The challenge for computer and information security 
        coordination and development is no single agreed upon voluntary 
        taxonomy nor definitions to rely upon when categorizing or 
        classifying computer or information security jobs.
            (7) The fields of computer and information security study 
        is within the field of information assurance.
            (8) The information assurance, cybersecurity and computer 
        security workforce encompasses a variety of context, roles, and 
        occupations and is too broad and diverse to be treated as a 
        single occupation or profession.
            (9) Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
        occupations, which include computer and information security 
        experts and professionals, are expected to grow by 17 percent 
        by the year 2018 compared to 9.8 percent for other jobs.
            (10) The Federal Government is experiencing a shortage of 
        qualified professionals with expertise in computer and 
        information security.
            (11) Insufficiently trained, educated, or supervised 
        Federal computer workers can reduce the Nation's ability to 
        secure computer networks from cyber attacks or incidents.
            (12) The computing and information security workforce 
        encompasses a variety of context, roles, and occupations and is 
        too broad an diverse to be treated as a single occupation or 
        profession.
            (13) Computing and information security is not solely a 
        technical endeavor, and thus encompasses a wide range of 
        backgrounds and skills that will be needed in an effective 
        national computing and information security workforce.
            (14) The route toward professionalization of a field of 
        study can be slow and difficult, and not all portions of a 
        field can or should be professionalized at the same time.
            (15) It is essential, just as it is for other disciplines 
        like medicine and the law, that academics, employers, and 
        government share a common language to identify, train, educate, 
        and employ computer and information security professionals.
            (16) The secure management of digital sensitive information 
        collected maintained or transmitted by Federal Government 
        agencies, including taxpayer data, Social Security records, 
        medical records, intellectual property, proprietary business 
        information, and sensitive Government data vital to national 
        security and national defense requires an educated and well-
        trained, as well as supervised, Federal workforce.
            (17) It is in the Nation's interest to promote 
        opportunities for science and technology education and 
        employment as a means of addressing the need to fill computer 
        and information security jobs within the Federal Government.
            (18) The Department of Homeland Security's role is to lead, 
        champion, and sustain the development of a national information 
        assurance, cybersecurity and computer security workforce, as 
        well as to educate the citizenry.
            (19) Developing, implementing, and articulating programs 
        that protect against and respond to computer and information 
        security threats and hazards to the Homeland's security.
            (20) The Department of Homeland Security must create an 
        agile, diverse workforce and digital citizenry that are capable 
        of sustaining a safe, secure, resilient computer and 
        information security space, driven by a dynamic Department 
        organization at the forefront of cross-sector computer and 
        information security workforce development.

TITLE I--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY K-12 EXCELLENCE IN SCIENCE AND 
                               TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 101. OFFICE OF CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION AND AWARENESS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 141 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:

``SEC. 226. OFFICE OF CYBERSECURITY EDUCATION AND AWARENESS.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There shall be within the Department an 
Office of Cybersecurity Education and Awareness Branch (hereinafter in 
this section referred to as the `Office').
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Office shall be responsible for 
carrying out the duties of the Office as directed by the Secretary. The 
Office shall also report to the Secretary the ongoing work of the 
Office. Further, the Office shall report on the statutory authority, 
Executive orders or agency directives that guide the work of the 
Office. The Office shall report to the Secretary what additional 
authority is needed to fulfill the mission for the Office as outlined 
by the section. The Office shall also conduct research and make 
recommendations to the Secretary to the extent that the agency can 
effectively engage in the following:
            ``(1) Recruiting, retaining, and sustaining the skills and 
        knowledge of Information assurance, cybersecurity and computer 
        security professionals in the Department of Homeland Security, 
        hereinafter known as the `Department'.
            ``(2) Supporting kindergarten through grade 12 science and 
        technology and computer and information safety education 
        through grants, and training programs.
            ``(3) Supporting postsecondary information assurance, 
        cybersecurity and computer security programs that provide 
        education that benefits the mission and objective of the 
        Department regarding recruitment and retention of highly 
        trained computing professionals who are work ready.
            ``(4) Promoting public knowledge of computer and 
        information security competitions to provide computer and 
        information security competition administrators, participants, 
        and sponsors with information necessary to further broader 
        public participation in these activities.
            ``(5) Developing a guest lecturer program or part-time 
        lecturer program comprised of information assurance, 
        cybersecurity and computer security experts in the Federal 
        Government, academia and private sector to support education of 
        students at institutions of higher education who are pursuing 
        degrees in computing science.
            ``(6) Managing a Computer and Information Security Youth 
        Training Pathway Program for secondary school and postsecondary 
        school students to work in part-time or summer positions along 
        with Federal agency computer and information security 
        professionals.
            ``(7) Developing programs that increase the capacity of 
        institutions defined in section 371 of the Higher Education Act 
        of 1965--
                    ``(A) Historically Black Colleges and Universities;
                    ``(B) Professional and academic areas in which 
                African-Americans are under represented;
                    ``(C) Hispanic-serving institutions;
                    ``(D) Native American colleges; and
                    ``(E) Rural Colleges and Universities.
            ``(8) Conduct research and make recommendations to the 
        Secretary on what the agency can do to increase participation 
        of professional and academic under represented areas at 
        minority institutions.
            ``(9) Providing support to the institutions of higher 
        education described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of 
        paragraph (7) to provide course work and education in computer 
        and information security designed to raise the number and 
        diversity of students in the field. The Office may use the 
        institutions defined under section 371 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q) minority-serving institutions are 
        defined as follows:
                    ``(A) A part B institution (as defined in section 
                322 (20 U.S.C. 1061)).
                    ``(B) A Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in 
                section 502 (20 U.S.C. 1101a)).
                    ``(C) A Tribal College or University (as defined in 
                section 316 (20 U.S.C. 1059)).
                    ``(D) An Alaska Native-serving institution or a 
                Native Hawaiian-serving institution (as defined in 
                section 317(b) (20 U.S.C. 1059d(b))).
                    ``(E) A Predominantly Black Institution (as defined 
                in subsection (c)).
                    ``(F) An Asian-American and Native American Pacific 
                Islander-serving institution (as defined in subsection 
                (c)).
                    ``(G) A Native American-serving nontribal 
                institution (as defined in subsection (c)).
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `information assurance, cybersecurity and 
        computer security program' has the meaning given by the 
        Secretary in consultation with the computing and information 
        Security Post Secondary Education Working Group under the bill.
            ``(2) The term `K-12' may be defined by the Secretary in 
        consultation with the K-12 Science and Technology Education 
        Board of Advisors under section 105 of the Cyber Security 
        Education and Federal Workforce Enhancement Act.
            ``(3) The Secretary may define higher education 
        institutions under this title using definitions found in 
        section 371 of the Higher Education Act of 1965.
            ``(4) The term `professional and academic under represented 
        areas' means areas in which African-Americans, Hispanics, and 
        women are under represented has the meaning given such term by 
        the Secretary, who may consult with the Commissioner for 
        Education Statistics and the Commissioner of the Bureau of 
        Labor Statistics. The basis of the determining the means should 
        be based on most recent available satisfactory data, as 
        computing and information security professional and academic 
        areas in which the percentage of African-Americans, Hispanics, 
        and females who have been educated, trained, and employed is 
        less than the percentage of African-Americans, Hispanics, and 
        women in the general population.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 225 
the following new item:

``Sec. 226. Office of Cybersecurity Education and Awareness.''.

SEC. 102. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY INITIATIVE GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider 
existing authority to make grants to secondary schools under this 
section, which shall be known as ``Science and Technology Educators 
Initiative Grants''.
    (b) Selection of Schools.--If the Secretary determines that they 
have the authority they may select secondary schools to receive grants 
under this section, the Secretary may consider the following factors:
            (1) Whether more than 40 percent of the students at the 
        secondary school are eligible for free or reduced price school 
        meal programs under the Richard B. Russell National School 
        Lunch Act and the Child Nutrition Act of 1966.
            (2) The location of the secondary school is in a rural 
        area.
            (3) The participation of representation of professions and 
        academic area among students which will also include home 
        schooled, individuals residing in rural areas, and individuals 
        attending underperforming secondary schools.
            (4) The location of the school in an area where the 
        unemployment rate was not more than one percent higher than the 
        national average unemployment rate during the 24-month period 
        preceding the determination of eligibility under this 
        subsection.
            (5) The location of the secondary school in an area where 
        the per capita income is of 80 percent or less of the national 
        per capita income.

SEC. 103. PROJECT-BASED LEARNING PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary shall direct the Office to 
conduct research to investigate and make recommendations regarding the 
feasibility and existing authority to establish a national project-
based science and technology learning program, to be known as the ``K-
12 Science and Technology Learning Program'' and make a report to both 
House and Senate Oversight Committees. Under such research program, the 
Secretary shall determine existing authority to--
            (1) create State and regional workshops to train teachers 
        in science and technology project-based learning;
            (2) establish between institutions of higher education, 
        businesses, and local public and private educational agencies 
        that serve students comprised of 40 percent of more of 
        professional and academics under represented areas to provide 
        materials and teaching aids to teachers who successfully 
        complete the science and technology project-based learning 
        program under this section;
            (3) identify no cost or low cost summer and after school 
        science and technology education programs and broadly 
        disseminate that information to the public; and
            (4) make grants to local educational agencies to support 
        the participation of teachers of elementary school and 
        secondary school in science and technology training programs by 
        providing travel and enrollment expenses, with a priority given 
        to teachers who work in schools serving neglected, delinquent, 
        migrant students, English learners, at-risk students, and 
        Native Americans, as determined by the Secretary.
    (b) Authority.--The Secretary shall have the authority under this 
statute to conduct a limited pilot project to test recommendations on 
possible programs that would be low-cost but have the greatest impact 
on instilling the importance of technology and science education.
    (c) Report to Congress.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress an 
annual report on the program established under this section.
    (d) Project-Based Science and Technology Learning Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``project-based science and technology learning'' 
means a systematic teaching method that engages students in learning 
essential science, technology, engineering and mathematics through 
knowledge and life-enhancing skills through an extended, student-
influenced inquiry process structured around complex, authentic 
questions and carefully designed products and tasks developed 
specifically for education.

SEC. 104. MATCHING FUNDS FOR STATE AND PRIVATELY FINANCED SCIENCE AND 
              TECHNOLOGY AFTER-SCHOOL PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide 
matching funds to local educational agencies for after-school programs 
dedicated to science, technology, engineering, and math in an amount 
equal to the amount provided to the program by a State, local, tribal, 
or territorial government or by a nonprofit or private entity.
    (b) Criteria.--In selecting programs for which to provide funds 
under this section, the Secretary shall consider--
            (1) the number of students served by the programs; and
            (2) the participation in the programs of students from 
        populations referred to in section 226 of the Homeland Security 
        Act of 2002, as added by section 101.
    (c) Limitation on Amount of Funding.--For any fiscal year, no 
individual school's after-school program shall receive more than $5,000 
under this section.

SEC. 105. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY BOARD OF ADVISORS.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department of 
Homeland Security the ``Research K-12 Science and Technology Education 
Board of Advisors'' (hereinafter in this section referred to as the 
``Board'').
    (b) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Board shall be composed of 15 members 
        appointed by the Secretary of Homeland Security, all of whom 
        shall have K-12 education expertise in programs. The Secretary 
        shall appoint members based on the following qualifications:
                    (A) Members of the Board shall have experience in 
                K-12 science, technology, engineering, and mathematics 
                education programs.
                    (B) Members of the Board shall have experience in 
                training K-12 educators on providing science and 
                technology instruction.
                    (C) Members of the Board shall have experience in 
                the promotion of science and technology education among 
                under represented populations, as defined by section 
                226 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by 
                section 101.
            (2) Deadline for appointment.--All members of the Board 
        shall be appointed not later than 60 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (3) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the membership of the Board 
        shall not affect its powers and shall be filled in the same 
        manner in which the original appointment was made.
            (4) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Members of the Board shall not 
                receive any compensation for their service.
                    (B) Travel expenses.--While away from their homes 
                or regular places of business in the performance of 
                services for the Board, members of the Board shall be 
                allowed travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
                subsistence, in the same manner as persons employed 
                intermittently in the Government service are allowed 
                expenses under section 5703(b) of title 5, United 
                States Code.
                    (C) Prohibition of consultant or contracting 
                work.--No member of the Board while serving in this 
                capacity or for 1 year following departure from the 
                Board may work as a consultant or contract worker for 
                the Department of Homeland Security in a position 
                related to the work of the Board to or member agency 
                that participates as a member of the Board.
    (c) Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of the Board are to 
research and make recommendations to the Secretary on--
            (1) the status of K-12 science and technology education 
        domestically and internationally;
            (2) make recommendations to the Secretary on how to 
        increase the quality and diversity of science and technology 
        curriculum;
            (3) promoting K-12 science and technology competitions;
            (4) establishing a virtual network to support teacher and 
        student science and technology education and development;
            (5) ascertaining, evaluating, and reporting on best 
        practices for project-based science and technology learning (as 
        such term is defined in section 103(c)); and
            (6) identifying K-12 science and technology education 
        efforts that are successful in engaging youth, with proven 
        competence in engaging females, minorities, individuals 
        residing in rural areas, individuals residing in majority 
        minority districts, home schooled students.
    (d) Chair.--The Chair of the Board shall be designated by the 
Secretary from among the members of the Board.
    (e) Meetings.--
            (1) Initial meeting.--The Board shall meet and begin the 
        operations of the Board by not later than 90 days after the 
        date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Subsequent meetings.--After its initial meeting, the 
        Board shall set the time and place of its next meeting. The 
        Board can upon the call of the chairman or a majority of its 
        members meet.
            (3) Quorum.--A majority of the Board shall constitute a 
        quorum.
            (4) Voting.--Proxy voting shall be allowed on behalf of a 
        member of the Board.
            (5) Rules of procedure.--The Board may establish rules for 
        the conduct of the Board's business, if such rules are not 
        inconsistent with this section or other applicable law.
    (f) Powers.--
            (1) Hearings and evidence.--The Board or, on the authority 
        of the Board, any subcommittee or member thereof, may, for the 
        purpose of carrying out this title hold such hearings and sit 
        and act at such times and places, take such testimony, receive 
        such evidence, administer such oaths.
            (2) Federal agency staff.--The Secretary shall make 
        decisions regarding Federal agency staff to be detailed to 
        support the work of the Board.
            (3) Contract authority.--The Board may enter into contracts 
        with the approval of the Secretary to such extent and in such 
        amounts as necessary for the Board to discharge its duties 
        under this section.
            (4) Information from federal agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--After providing notice to the 
                Secretary who may provide staff from the Department to 
                meet the staffing needs of the Board. After 10 working 
                days following notice to the Secretary the Board is 
                authorized to secure directly from any executive 
                department, bureau, agency, board, office, independent 
                establishment, or instrumentality of the Government, 
                information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics for 
                the purposes of this title. Each department, bureau, 
                agency, board, office, independent establishment, or 
                instrumentality shall, to the extent authorized by law, 
                furnish such information, suggestions, estimates, and 
                statistics directly to the Board, upon request made by 
                the chairman, the chairman of any subcommittee created 
                by a majority of the Board, or any member designated by 
                a majority of the Board.
                    (B) Receipt, handling, storage, and 
                dissemination.--Information shall only be received, 
                handled, stored, and disseminated by members of the 
                Board and its staff consistent with all applicable 
                statutes, regulations, and Executive orders.
            (5) Assistance from federal agencies.--
                    (A) General services administration.--The 
                Administrator of General Services shall provide to the 
                Board on a reimbursable basis administrative support 
                and other services for the performance of the Board's 
                functions.
                    (B) Other departments and agencies.--In addition to 
                the assistance prescribed in subparagraph (A), 
                departments and agencies of the United States may 
                provide to the Board such services, funds, facilities, 
                staff, and other support services as they may determine 
                advisable and as may be authorized by law.
                    (C) Postal services.--The Board may use the United 
                States mails in the same manner and under the same 
                conditions as departments and agencies of the United 
                States.
    (g) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Appointment and compensation.--The Chair, in 
                accordance with rules agreed upon by the Board, may 
                appoint and fix the compensation of a staff director 
                and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable 
                the Board to carry out its functions, without regard to 
                the provisions of title 5, United States Code, 
                governing appointments in the competitive service, and 
                without regard to the provisions of chapter 51 and 
                subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating to 
                classification and General Schedule pay rates, except 
                that no rate of pay fixed under this subsection may 
                exceed the equivalent of that payable for a position at 
                level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
                title 5, United States Code.
                    (B) Personnel as federal employees.--
                            (i) In general.--The executive director and 
                        any personnel of the Board who are employees 
                        shall be employees under section 2105 of title 
                        5, United States Code, for purposes of chapters 
                        63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, and 90 of that 
                        title.
                            (ii) Members of the board.--Clause (i) 
                        shall not be construed to apply to members of 
                        the Board.
            (2) Detailees.--Any Federal Government employee may be 
        detailed to the Board without reimbursement from the Board, and 
        such detailee shall retain the rights, status, and privileges 
        of his or her regular employment without interruption.
            (3) Administrative support from the department.--At the 
        request of the Board, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        provide the Board with Administrative support necessary for the 
        Board to carry out its duties under this title.
    (h) Reports.--
            (1) Quarterly reports.--The Board shall submit to the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security quarterly reports on the 
        activities of the Board.
            (2) Final report.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act, the Board shall submit to the 
        Secretary a final report containing such findings conclusions, 
        and recommendations as have been agreed to by a majority of 
        Board members.
    (i) Applicability of FACA.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in the Federal Advisory Committee 
        Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Board.
            (2) Public meetings and release of public versions of 
        reports.--The Board shall--
                    (A) hold public hearings and meetings to the extent 
                appropriate; and
                    (B) release public versions of the reports required 
                under subsection (h).
            (3) Public hearings.--Any public hearings of the Board 
        shall be conducted in a manner consistent with the protection 
        of information provided to or developed for or by the Board as 
        required by any applicable statute, regulation, or Executive 
        order.
    (j) Termination.--The Board, and all the authorities of this title, 
shall terminate two years after the date of the Board's first meeting, 
which shall take place 90 days following its appointment.
            (1) In general.--The Board and all the authorities this 
        section shall terminate 60 days after the date on which the 
        final report is submitted under subsection (h)(2).
            (2) Administrative activities before termination.--The 
        Board may use the 60-day period referred to in paragraph (1) 
        for the purpose of concluding its activities, including 
        providing testimony to committees of Congress concerning its 
        reports and disseminating the final report.
    (k) Funding.--There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
may be necessary to carry out this section. Amounts made available 
pursuant to this subsection shall remain available until the 
termination of the Board.

SEC. 106. LABORATORIES FOR SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY EXCELLENCE.

    The Secretary of Homeland Security shall determine if existing 
authority allows the agency to make grants to local education agencies 
for the purpose of supplying laboratory facilities at secondary schools 
to promote the teaching of science, technology, engineering, and 
mathematics. If the Secretary determines that the authority does not 
exist shall make a report to Congressional oversight committees 
detailing the limitation in agency authority to conduct activity under 
this section and make recommendations on the benefits if any should the 
agency have the authority to engage in the activity outlined in this 
section.

  TITLE II--POST-SECONDARY COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SECURITY EDUCATION

SEC. 201. COMPUTING AND INFORMATION RESEARCH WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established the Department of 
Homeland Security the Computing and Information Security Post-Secondary 
Education Working Group, hereafter in this section referred to as the 
``Working Group''.
    (b) Responsibilities.--The Working Group shall conduct research 
and--
            (1) assist the Secretary in developing voluntary guidelines 
        that could serve as guidance to Federal civil agency training 
        programs, computer and information security certification 
        authorities, and accreditation bodies seeking guidance on 
        developing, enhancing, or sustaining competitive information 
        security; and
            (2) make recommendations to the Secretary regarding--
                    (A) the state of the computing and information 
                security workforce development;
                    (B) evaluations and reports on the advantages, 
                disadvantages, and approaches to professionalizing the 
                Nation's computing and information security workforce;
                    (C) criteria that can be used to identify which, if 
                any, specialty areas may require professionalization;
                    (D) criteria for evaluating different approaches 
                and tools for professionalization;
                    (E) techniques that enhance the efficiency and 
                effectiveness of computing and information security 
                workers;
                    (F) better tools and approaches for risk 
                identification and assessment;
                    (G) improved system design and development;
                    (H) creation of better incentives for deployment of 
                better computing and information security technologies;
                    (I) improvements in end user behaviors through 
                training and better coordination among network 
                managers;
                    (J) core curriculum requirements for computing and 
                information security training;
                    (K) efficacy and efficiencies of taxonomy and 
                definitions for computer and information security;
                    (L) guidelines for accreditations and certification 
                of computing and information security college and 
                university programs;
                    (M) identify the role of mentors in the retention 
                of students enrolled in computing and technology 
                programs at institutions of higher education who 
                complete degree programs;
                    (N) remote access to computing and information 
                security education and training through the Internet; 
                and
                    (O) institution of higher education funding and 
                research needs.
    (c) Deadline for Submittal of Research Funding and 
Recommendations.--
            (1) Initial research.--The Working Group shall submit to 
        the Secretary an initial research plan that will guide the work 
        of the Working Group.
            (2) Other research recommendations.--The Working Group 
        shall provide the Secretary a list of other areas that require 
        research to accomplish the purpose of the agency's goal of 
        providing cyber security protection for the agency. The Working 
        Group shall provide a description of the proposed research and 
        the purpose of the research as it relates to the goals of 
        cybersecurity of the agency.
            (3) Initial recommendations.--The Working Group shall 
        submit to the Secretary initial recommendations under this 
        section by not later than nine months after the date on which 
        all of the members of the Working Group are appointed.
            (4) Other recommendations.--Not later than six months after 
        all members of the Working Group are appointed, the Working 
        Group shall submit to the Secretary research and 
        recommendations on the effectiveness of Federal civil agency 
        computer and information security training programs, including 
        an evaluation of certification authorities and their role in 
        providing work ready staff to fill positions with the agency.
            (5) Subsequent research and recommendations.--Not later 
        than one year after the date of the submittal of the initial 
        research and recommendations under paragraph (1), and annually 
        thereafter, the Working Group shall submit to the Secretary 
        subsequent research and recommendations under this section and 
        an update on the progress made toward a well trained and 
        sustainable Department computer and information workforce.
    (d) Membership.--
            (1) Chair.--The Chair of the Working Group shall be the 
        Director of the National Institute of Standards and Technology 
        or the Director's designee.
            (2) Other members.--The Working Group shall be composed of 
        21 members, who are appointed by the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security in consultation with the Director of NIST and the head 
        of the entity represented by the member.
            (3) Appointment.--All appointments are for a term of 2 
        years with one reappointment for an additional 2 years.
            (4) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Working Group 
        shall constitute a quorum.
    (e) No Compensation for Service.--While away from their homes or 
regular places of business in the performance of services for the 
Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel expenses, 
including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the same manner as 
persons employed intermittently in the Government service are allowed 
expenses under section 5703(b) of title 5, United States Code.
    (f) Technical Support From the Department of Homeland Security.--At 
the request of the Working Group, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
shall provide the Working Group with technical support necessary for 
the Working Group to carry out its duties under this section.
    (g) Intellectual Property Rights.--No private-sector individual or 
entity shall obtain any intellectual property rights to any guidelines 
or recommendations nor the contents of any guideline (or any 
modification to any guideline) adopted by the Secretary under this 
section.
    (h) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Working Group shall submit to the Secretary 
a report containing researching findings, an outline for other areas 
requiring research and why as well as recommendations of the Working 
Group.
    (i) Submittal of Recommendations to Congress.--Not later than 18 
months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate a report on the research findings, an outline of 
other areas requiring research and why and recommendations for 
furthering the cybersecurity of the agency.
    (j) Treatment of Recommendations.--The Secretary has the benefit of 
the Working Group's work which the Secretary may accept, reject, or 
modify. The Secretary shall not be bound by the recommendations of the 
Working Group.
    (k) Publication of Recommendations in Federal Register.--The 
Secretary shall approve the publication of grant application guidelines 
in the Federal Register by not later than 90 days after receiving the 
report submitted under subsection (h).
    (l) Applicability of FACA.--Nothing in the Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.; relating to the termination of advisory 
committees) shall apply to the Working Group.

SEC. 202. PROCESS FOR ADOPTION RESEARCH AND A BEST PRACTICES VOLUNTARY 
              GUIDELINES FOR LABORATORY FACILITIES.

    (a) Establishment of the Post-Secondary Laboratory Development Task 
Force.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish a ``Post-
Secondary Laboratory Research Development Task Force'' (hereinafter in 
this section referred to as the ``Development Task Force'').
    (b) Responsibilities.--The Development Task Force shall conduct 
research for and make recommendations to the Secretary regarding best 
practices voluntary guidelines for college and university laboratory 
facilities for education and research purposes related to information 
assurance, cybersecurity and computing security. Such research on what 
baseline equipment, capacity, skilled instruction, and certification 
may be needed for a set of best practices voluntary guidelines for 
colleague or university laboratories and make recommendations on the 
best methods of assuring that the greatest number of institutions have 
access to facilities that meet the baseline best practices regarding--
            (1) qualifications for laboratories for the purpose of 
        providing education or instruction in computing security, 
        computer networks, enterprises, informatics, and other systems 
        designated by the Secretary;
            (2) types of software;
            (3) types of hardware;
            (4) types of firmware;
            (5) security applications, including firewalls, whole hat 
        hackers, red teams, and blue teams;
            (6) security protocols needed to protect the physical and 
        computer resources of the laboratory;
            (7) accreditation and certification of college and 
        university computer and information security laboratories;
            (8) best practices for--
                    (A) public-private collaborations to support 
                secondary and post-secondary laboratory facilities for 
                computer or information security;
                    (B) visiting guest lecture programs for business 
                and Government information technology security experts; 
                and
                    (C) developing real world laboratory exercise and 
                proficiency measures; and
            (9) how best to recruit and retain instructors with 
        requisite degrees to teach computer and information security 
        courses to undergraduate and graduate students.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Members.--The Development Task Force shall be composed 
        of 19 members, including the Chair. The Secretary of Homeland 
        Security, in consultation with the head of the entity 
        represented by the member agencies, shall appoint members. The 
        Secretary shall appoint a chair from among the members of the 
        Development Task Force. Such members shall consist of one 
        representative of each of the following agencies:
                    (A) The White House Office of Science and 
                Technology Policy.
                    (B) The Office of the Director of National 
                Intelligence.
                    (C) The Department of Energy.
                    (D) The Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
                    (E) The Department of Commerce.
                    (F) The National Institutes of Health.
                    (G) The National Institute of Science and 
                Technology.
                    (H) The National Science Foundation.
                    (I) The Director of the Office of Personnel 
                Management.
            (2) Other members.--The Secretary shall consider for the 
        other members of the Development Task Force representatives 
        from organizations that advocate and promote professional 
        development of professional and academic under represented 
        areas and organizations with the mission of promoting 
        professional development and academic excellence in information 
        assurance, cybersecurity and computing security:
                    (A) Organizations with the mission of advancing 
                computing as a science and profession.
                    (B) Organizations that promote information system 
                security education.
                    (C) Professional associations that are well 
                established and broadly recognized for the advancement 
                of technology.
                    (D) Professional associations that represent 
                professionals and academics referred to in section 226 
                of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by 
                section 101.
                    (E) K-12 science and technology programs that 
                conduct successful after school and summer programs for 
                under represented populations, rural communities and 
                serve communities where unemployment is at least two 
                percent higher than the national average.
                    (F) Organizations that promote education of Native 
                Americans or other indigenous peoples of the United 
                States or its territories.
                    (G) Regional diversity of public and private school 
                districts that excel at science and technology 
                education.
            (3) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Development 
        Task Force shall constitute a quorum.
            (4) Voting.--Proxy voting shall be allowed on behalf of a 
        member of the Development Task Force.
            (5) Rules of procedure.--The Development Task Force may 
        establish rules for the conduct of the Development Task Force's 
        business, if such rules are not inconsistent with this section 
        or other applicable law.
    (d) Powers.--
            (1) Hearings and evidence.--The Development Task Force or, 
        on the authority of the Development Task Force, or any 
        subcommittee or member thereof, may, for the purpose of 
        carrying out this section hold such hearings and sit and act at 
        such times and places, take such testimony, receive such 
        evidence, and administer such oaths.
            (2) Contract authority.--After giving notice to the 
        Secretary who may substitute agency staff with the requisite 
        skills to fill a position needed by the Board at no additional 
        cost to the Board. After 10 working days following notice to 
        the Secretary the Development Task Force may enter into 
        contracts to such extent and in such amounts as necessary for 
        the Development Task Force to discharge its duties under this 
        section.
            (3) Information from federal agencies.--
                    (A) In general.--The Development Task Force is 
                authorized to secure directly from any executive 
                department, bureau, agency, board, office, independent 
                establishment, or instrumentality of the Government 
                information, suggestions, estimates, and statistics for 
                the purposes of this section. Each department, bureau, 
                agency, board, office, independent establishment, or 
                instrumentality shall, to the extent authorized by law, 
                furnish such information, suggestions, estimates, and 
                statistics directly to the Board, upon request made by 
                the chairman, the chairman of any subcommittee created 
                by a majority of the Board, or any member designated by 
                a majority of the Board.
                    (B) Receipt, handling, storage, and 
                dissemination.--Information shall only be received, 
                handled, stored, and disseminated by members of the 
                Board and its staff consistent with all applicable 
                statutes, regulations, and Executive orders.
            (4) Assistance from federal agencies.--
                    (A) General services administration.--The 
                Administrator of General Services shall provide to the 
                Development Task Force on a reimbursable basis 
                administrative support and other services for the 
                performance of the Board's functions.
                    (B) Other departments and agencies.--In addition to 
                the assistance prescribed in subparagraph (A), 
                departments and agencies of the United States may 
                provide to the Board such services, funds, facilities, 
                staff, and other support services as they may determine 
                advisable and as may be authorized by law.
                    (C) Postal services.--The Development Task Force 
                may use the United States mails in the same manner and 
                under the same conditions as departments and agencies 
                of the United States.
    (e) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--While away from their homes or regular 
        places of business in the performance of services for the 
        Commission, members of the Commission shall be allowed travel 
        expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in the 
        same manner as persons employed intermittently in the 
        Government service are allowed expenses under section 5703(b) 
        of title 5, United States Code.
            (2) Personnel as federal employees.--
                    (A) In general.--The executive director and any 
                personnel of the Development Task Force who are 
                employees shall be employees under section 2105 of 
                title 5, United States Code, for purposes of chapters 
                63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 87, 89, and 90 of that title.
                    (B) Members of the development task force.--
                Subparagraph (A) shall not be construed to apply to 
                members of the Development Task Force.
            (3) Detailees.--Any Federal Government employee may be 
        detailed to the Board without reimbursement from the 
        Development Task Force, and such detailee shall retain the 
        rights, status, and privileges of his or her regular employment 
        without interruption.
    (f) No Compensation for Service.--Members of the Development Task 
Force shall not receive any compensation for their service, but shall 
be paid travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at 
rates authorized for employees of agencies under subchapter I of 
chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from their homes 
or regular places of business in the performance of services for the 
Development Task Force.
    (g) Prohibition of Consultant or Contracting Work.--No member of 
the Development Task Force while serving in this capacity or for 1 year 
following departure from the Development Task Force may work as a 
consultant or contract worker for the Department of Homeland Security 
in a position related to the work of the Development Task Force to or 
member agency that participates as a member of the Development Task 
Force.
    (h) Report.--The Development Task Force shall submit a report to 
the Secretary of Homeland Security a report on research findings, best 
practices voluntary guidelines and recommendations to the Secretary. 
The report shall be in unclassified form but may include a classified 
annex.
    (i) Secretary of Homeland Security Report.--The Secretary shall 
submit to Congress a report on the work of the Development Task 
Force's, research into best practices voluntary guidelines, areas that 
require additional study and a set of recommendations. The Secretary 
indicate to the Congress which Development Task Force recommendations 
have been implement, which will be implement, or which will be rejected 
and why.
    (j) Technical Support From the Department.--At the request of 
Development Task Force the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide 
the Development Task Force with technical support necessary for the 
Development Task Force to carry out its duties under this section.
    (k) Intellectual Property.--No private-sector individual or entity 
serving on the Development Task Force shall obtain any intellectual 
property rights to any guidelines or recommendations the derive from 
the work of the Development Task Force or any guidelines (or any 
modification to any guidelines) base on the work of the Development 
Task Force.
    (l) Prohibition of Consultant or Contracting Work.--No member of 
the Development Task Force while serving in this capacity or for 1 year 
following departure from the Development Task Force may work as a 
consultant or contract worker in a position related to the direct work 
of the Development Task Force to the Department of Homeland Security or 
member agency that participates as a member of the Development Task 
Force.

SEC. 203. COMPUTING AND INFORMATION SECURITY MENTORING PROGRAMS FOR 
              COLLEGE STUDENTS.

    (a) Office of Cybersecurity and Information Security Professional's 
Mentoring Program.--
            (1) In general.--Subtitle C of title II of the Homeland 
        Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 141 et seq.) is further amended 
        by adding at the end the following new section:

``SEC. 227. OFFICE OF COMPUTING AND INFORMATION SECURITY PROFESSIONAL'S 
              MENTORING PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is in the Department an Office of 
Computing and Information Security Professional's Mentoring Program. 
The head of the office is the Mentoring Coordinator, who shall be 
appointed by the Secretary.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Mentoring Coordinator shall be 
responsible for working with outreach to institution of higher 
education, critical infrastructure owners, and the heads of Federal 
departments and agencies to develop and promote the participation of 
professionals as volunteer mentors to--
            ``(1) undergraduate students at institutions of higher 
        education who are enrolled in the third or fourth year of a 
        program of education leading to a degree in computing or 
        information security;
            ``(2) students enrolled in a program of education leading 
        to a doctoral degree in computing or information security; and
            ``(3) new employees of Federal departments and agencies 
        whose primary responsibilities relate to computing or 
        information security.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in section 
        1(b) of such Act is further amended by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 226 the following new item:

``Sec. 227. Office of Computing and Information Security Professional's 
                            Mentoring Program.''.
    (b) Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        determine existing authority to make grants to covered 
        institutions of higher learning for the establishment of 
        mentoring programs for undergraduates enrolled in programs or 
        courses of education in information assurance, cybersecurity or 
        computing security programs.
            (2) Covered institutions of higher learning.--For purposes 
        of this subsection, the term ``covered institution of higher 
        learning'' means those institutions as defined in section 371 
        of the Higher Education Act of 1965 and listed in section 101 
        of this bill.

SEC. 204. GRANTS FOR COMPUTER EQUIPMENT.

    (a) Grants.--The Secretary of Homeland Security may make grants to 
post-secondary institutions that offer courses or degrees in computing 
or information security to be used to establish or equip a computer 
laboratory to be made available to students and faculty for both 
teaching and research purposes.
    (b) Technical Support.--The Secretary shall ensure that each 
recipient of a grant under this section also receives technical support 
on the use and proper function of equipment and software.
    (c) Publication in Federal Register.--The Secretary shall publish 
the name of each institution of higher education that receives a grant 
under this section and the amount of such grant.
    (d) Qualification.--In making grants under this section, the 
Secretary--
            (1) shall take into consideration whether more than 50 
        percent of the students at an institution are taking online or 
        distance learning computer science and information security 
        courses; and
            (2) may establish guidance to institutions for entering 
        into laboratory facilities sharing agreements to allow 
        institutions to qualify for grants under this section.

SEC. 205. CENTERS OF ACADEMIC COMPUTING AND INFORMATION ASSURANCE.

    (a) Program Established.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
establish a program for Centers of Academic Computer and Information 
Assurance Distinction.
    (b) Designation of Centers.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may designate five colleges 
        or universities as Centers of Distinction for Academic 
        Computing and Information Security Assurance each year with no 
        limit to the total number of such Centers that may be 
        established. The Secretary may make public the Centers for 
        Distinction in Academic Computing and Information Security 
        Assurance.
            (2) Revocation of designations.--The Secretary may revoke 
        the designation of a Center of Distinction for Academic 
        Computing and Information Security Assurance.
            (3) Criteria.--The Secretary shall make available 
        information regarding the criteria for designating an 
        institution as a Center of Distinction for Academic Computing 
        and Information Security Assurance under this section.
            (4) Distance learning.--In designating Centers under this 
        section, the Secretary shall consider the number of students 
        who are enrolled in distance learning computer or information 
        security courses and whether collaborations for in laboratory 
        instruction through shared arrangements with established 
        information assurance, cybersecurity computing security 
        programs at secondary education programs that laboratory 
        facilities that meet best practices as outlined by the 
        Secretary would be sufficient to meet the requirements 
        established under this section.
    (c) Outreach.--The Secretary shall identify and report on the 
success of efforts to reach under represented populations in the field 
of computing and information security through work with institutions as 
defined under section 371 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 listed in 
section 101 of this bill.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 220 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
recommendations regarding distance learning computer and information 
security programs for meeting the cybersecurity professional 
requirements of the agency.
    (e) Consideration of Programs.--The Secretary may consider the 
following when making grants to postsecondary education institutions 
and private sector entities who are contracted, provided grants or 
funds to conduct research on information assurance, cybersecurity and 
computing security to advance the agency's cybersecurity capacity:
            (1) Institutions designated as Center of Distinction for 
        Academic Computing and Information Security Assurance.
            (2) Institutions who have established academic mentoring 
        and program development partnerships related to information 
        assurance, cybersecurity, and computing security academic 
        programs with institutions defined under section 371 of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965 listed in section 101 of this 
        bill.

    TITLE III--FEDERAL WORKFORCE COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SECURITY 
                        PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT

SEC. 301. LIFELONG LEARNING IN COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SECURITY STUDY.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
establish a program to be known as the ``Lifelong Computer and 
Information Security Study''. Such program shall be designed to promote 
computer and information security professionals among Federal civilian 
agencies, critical infrastructure, and the general public by supporting 
post-employment education and training.
    (b) Discretion of Secretary.--The Secretary shall have the 
discretion to determine the best methods for accomplishing the 
objective of this section.
    (c) Reports.--The Secretary shall periodically submit to Congress a 
report on the implementation of this section.

SEC. 302. COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SECURITY JOB OPPORTUNITIES PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through 
the Deputy Assistant Secretary for Cybersecurity Education and 
Awareness, shall establish, in conjunction with the National Science 
Foundation, a program to award grants to institutions of higher 
education (and consortia thereof) for--
            (1) the establishment or expansion of computer and 
        information security professional development programs;
            (2) the establishment or expansion (or both) of associate 
        degree programs in computer and information security; and
            (3) the purchase of equipment to provide training in 
        computer and information security for either professional 
        development programs or degree programs.
    (b) Goals and Criteria.--The Secretary, acting through the Deputy 
Assistant Secretary and in consultation with the Working Group 
established under section 201, shall establish the goals for the 
program under this section and the criteria for awarding grants.
    (c) Awards.--
            (1) Peer review.--All awards under this section shall be 
        provided on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis. The peer 
        review process shall be published in the Federal Register. 
        Those serving in a peer review role shall do so for 2 years 
        with an option for 1 additional term. Applicants in the event 
        of a denial of an award shall be provided with a detailed 
        explanation for the denial.
            (2) Focus.--In making awards under this section, the Deputy 
        Assistant Secretary shall, to the extent practicable, ensure 
        geographic diversity and the participation of women and under 
        represented minorities.
            (3) Preference.--In making awards under this section, the 
        Deputy Assistant Secretary shall--
                    (A) give preference to applications submitted by 
                consortia of institutions, to encourage as many 
                students and professionals as possible to benefit from 
                the program established under this section;
                    (B) give preference to any application submitted by 
                a consortium of institutions that includes at least one 
                institution that is eligible to receive funds under 
                title III or V of the Higher Education Act of 1965; and
                    (C) consider the enrollment of students in online 
                and distance learning courses.
    (d) Institution of Higher Education Defined.--In this section the 
term ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given that 
term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001(a)).

SEC. 303. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY CYBERSECURITY TRAINING 
              PROGRAMS AND EQUIPMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through 
the Assistant Secretary of Cybersecurity, shall establish, in 
conjunction with the National Science Foundation, a program to award 
grants to institutions of higher education (and consortia thereof) 
for--
            (1) the establishment or expansion of cybersecurity 
        professional development programs;
            (2) the establishment or expansion (or both) of associate 
        degree programs in cybersecurity; and
            (3) the purchase of equipment to provide training in 
        cybersecurity for either professional development programs or 
        degree programs.
    (b) Roles.--
            (1) Department of homeland security.--The Secretary, acting 
        through the Assistant Secretary and in consultation with the 
        Director of the National Science Foundation, shall establish 
        the goals for the program established under this section and 
        the criteria for awarding grants.
            (2) National science foundation.--The Director of the 
        National Science Foundation shall operate the program 
        established under this section consistent with the goals and 
        criteria established under paragraph (1), including soliciting 
        applicants, reviewing applications, and making and 
        administering awards. The Director may consult with the 
        Assistant Secretary in selecting awardees.
            (3) Funding.--The Secretary shall transfer to the National 
        Science Foundation the funds necessary to carry out this 
        section.
    (c) Awards.--
            (1) Peer review.--All awards under this section shall be 
        provided on a competitive, merit-reviewed basis.
            (2) Focus.--In making awards under this section, the 
        Director shall, to the extent practicable, ensure geographic 
        diversity and the participation of women and under represented 
        minorities.
            (3) Preference.--In making awards under this section, the 
        Director--
                    (A) shall give preference to applications submitted 
                by consortia of institutions, to encourage as many 
                students and professionals as possible to benefit from 
                the program established under this section; and
                    (B) shall give preference to any application 
                submitted by a consortium of institutions that includes 
                at least one institution that is eligible to receive 
                funds under title III or V of the Higher Education Act 
                of 1965.
    (d) Institution of Higher Education Defined.--In this section the 
term ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given that 
term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001(a)).
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary for carrying out this section $3,700,000 
for each of fiscal years 2016 and 2017.

SEC. 304. E-SECURITY FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--Subtitle C of title II of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.) is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 228. E-SECURITY FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        fellowship program in accordance with this section for the 
        purpose of bringing State, local, tribal, and private sector 
        officials to participate in the work of the National 
        Cybersecurity Division in order to become familiar with the 
        Department's stated cybersecurity missions and capabilities, 
        including but not limited to--
                    ``(A) enhancing Federal, State, local, and tribal 
                government cybersecurity;
                    ``(B) developing partnerships with other Federal 
                agencies, State, local, and tribal governments, and the 
                private sector;
                    ``(C) improving and enhancing public/private 
                information sharing involving cyber attacks, threats, 
                and vulnerabilities;
                    ``(D) providing and coordinating incident response 
                and recovery planning efforts; and
                    ``(E) fostering training and certification.
            ``(2) Program name.--The program under this section shall 
        be known as the E-Security Fellows Program.
    ``(b) Eligibility.--In order to be eligible for selection as a 
fellow under the program, an individual must--
            ``(1) have cybersecurity-related responsibilities; and
            ``(2) be eligible to possess an appropriate national 
        security clearance.
    ``(c) Limitations.--The Secretary--
            ``(1) may conduct up to 2 iterations of the program each 
        year, each of which shall be 180 days in duration; and
            ``(2) shall ensure that the number of fellows selected for 
        each iteration does not impede the activities of the Division.
    ``(d) Condition.--As a condition of selecting an individual as a 
fellow under the program, the Secretary shall require that the 
individual's employer agree to continue to pay the individual's salary 
and benefits during the period of the fellowship.
    ``(e) Stipend.--During the period of the fellowship of an 
individual under the program, the Secretary shall, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, provide to the individual a stipend to 
cover the individual's reasonable living expenses during the period of 
the fellowship.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to such 
subtitle the following:

``Sec. 228. E-Security Fellows Program.''.

                           TITLE IV--RESEARCH

SEC. 401. NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION STUDY ON SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
              STUDENT RETENTION.

    (a) Study.--The National Science Foundation shall conduct a study 
on the causes of the high dropout rates of women and minority students 
enrolled in programs of education leading to degrees in science, 
technology, engineering, and mathematics and the effects of such 
dropout rates on the cost of education for such students and the 
shortage of workers qualified for jobs in science and technology.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the National Science Foundation shall submit to 
Congress a report on the study conducted under subsection (a) together 
with any recommendations of the National Science Foundation.

SEC. 402. CHALLENGE GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall make 
grants to the Center of Distinction for Academic Computing and 
Information Security Assurance, which shall be known as ``Challenge 
Grants''. The recipient of a grant under this section shall use the 
grant to form a partnership with section 226 of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002, as added by section 101 to assist in improving the 
computing programs of such colleges and universities and meeting the 
requirements to become a Center of Distinction for Academic Computing 
and Information Security. The Secretary shall ensure that the 
institutions that receive assistance under this subsection are the 
institutions as defined under section 371 of the Higher Education Act 
of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1067q).
    (b) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
outcomes of the partnerships funded by grants under this section and 
shall include in such report the recommendations of the Secretary 
regarding improving the access of the population served by the 
institutions of higher education described in subsection (a).

SEC. 403. E-SECURITY FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment of Program.--Subtitle C of title II of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 121 et seq.) is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 228. E-SECURITY FELLOWS PROGRAM.

    ``(a) Establishment.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        fellowship program in accordance with this section for the 
        purpose of bringing State, local, tribal, and private sector 
        officials to participate in the work of the National 
        Cybersecurity Division in order to become familiar with the 
        Department's stated cybersecurity missions and capabilities, 
        including but not limited to--
                    ``(A) developing partnerships with other Federal 
                agencies, State, local, and tribal governments, and the 
                private sector; and
                    ``(B) fostering training and certification.
            ``(2) Program name.--The program under this section shall 
        be known as the `E-Security Fellows Program'.
    ``(b) Eligibility.--In order to be eligible for selection as a 
fellow under the program, an individual must--
            ``(1) have computer and information security-related 
        responsibilities; and
            ``(2) be eligible to possess an appropriate national 
        security clearance.
    ``(c) Limitations.--The Secretary--
            ``(1) may conduct up to 2 iterations of the program each 
        year, each of which shall be 180 days in duration; and
            ``(2) shall ensure that the number of fellows selected for 
        each iteration does not impede the activities of the Division.
    ``(d) Condition.--As a condition of selecting an individual as a 
fellow under the program, the Secretary shall require that the 
individual's employer agree to continue to pay the individual's salary 
and benefits during the period of the fellowship.
    ``(e) Stipend.--During the period of the fellowship of an 
individual under the program, the Secretary shall, subject to the 
availability of appropriations, provide to the individual a stipend to 
cover the individual's reasonable living expenses during the period of 
the fellowship.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
such Act is further amended by adding at the end of the items relating 
to such subtitle the following:

``Sec. 228. E-Security Fellows Program.''.
                                 <all>
