[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 524 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.524

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
  To authorize the Attorney General and Secretary of Health and Human 
 Services to award grants to address the prescription opioid abuse and 
               heroin use crisis, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Comprehensive 
Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

                    TITLE I--PREVENTION AND EDUCATION

Sec. 101. Task force on pain management.
Sec. 102. Awareness campaigns.
Sec. 103. Community-based coalition enhancement grants to address local 
          drug crises.
Sec. 104. Information materials and resources to prevent addiction 
          related to youth sports injuries.
Sec. 105. Assisting veterans with military emergency medical training to 
          meet requirement for becoming civilian health care 
          professionals.
Sec. 106. FDA opioid action plan.
Sec. 107. Improving access to overdose treatment.
Sec. 108. NIH opioid research.
Sec. 109. National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting 
          Reauthorization.
Sec. 110. Opioid overdose reversal medication access and education grant 
          programs.

                 TITLE II--LAW ENFORCEMENT AND TREATMENT

Sec. 201. Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program.
Sec. 202. First responder training.
Sec. 203. Prescription drug take back expansion.

                    TITLE III--TREATMENT AND RECOVERY

Sec. 301. Evidence-based prescription opioid and heroin treatment and 
          interventions demonstration.
Sec. 302. Building communities of recovery.
Sec. 303. Medication-assisted treatment for recovery from addiction.

              TITLE IV--ADDRESSING COLLATERAL CONSEQUENCES

Sec. 401. GAO report on recovery and collateral consequences.

   TITLE V--ADDICTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES FOR WOMEN, FAMILIES, AND 
                                VETERANS

Sec. 501. Improving treatment for pregnant and postpartum women.
Sec. 502. Veterans treatment courts.
Sec. 503. Infant plan of safe care.
Sec. 504. GAO report on neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS).

   TITLE VI--INCENTIVIZING STATE COMPREHENSIVE INITIATIVES TO ADDRESS 
                        PRESCRIPTION OPIOID ABUSE

Sec. 601. State demonstration grants for comprehensive opioid abuse 
          response.

                        TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 701. Grant accountability and evaluations.
Sec. 702. Partial fills of schedule II controlled substances.
Sec. 703. Good samaritan assessment.
Sec. 704. Programs to prevent prescription drug abuse under Medicare 
          parts C and D.
Sec. 705. Excluding abuse-deterrent formulations of prescription drugs 
          from the Medicaid additional rebate requirement for new 
          formulations of prescription drugs.
Sec. 706. Limiting disclosure of predictive modeling and other analytics 
          technologies to identify and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse.
Sec. 707. Medicaid Improvement Fund.
Sec. 708. Sense of the Congress regarding treatment of substance abuse 
          epidemics.

               TITLE VIII--KINGPIN DESIGNATION IMPROVEMENT

Sec. 801. Protection of classified information in Federal court 
          challenges relating to designations under the Narcotics 
          Kingpin Designation Act.

                TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

Sec. 901. Short title.
Sec. 902. Definitions.

             Subtitle A--Opioid Therapy and Pain Management

Sec. 911. Improvement of opioid safety measures by Department of 
          Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 912. Strengthening of joint working group on pain management of the 
          Department of Veterans Affairs and the Department of Defense.
Sec. 913. Review, investigation, and report on use of opioids in 
          treatment by Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 914. Mandatory disclosure of certain veteran information to State 
          controlled substance monitoring programs.
Sec. 915. Elimination of copayment requirement for veterans receiving 
          opioid antagonists or education on use of opioid antagonists.

                      Subtitle B--Patient Advocacy

Sec. 921. Community meetings on improving care furnished by Department 
          of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 922. Improvement of awareness of patient advocacy program and 
          patient bill of rights of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 923. Comptroller General report on patient advocacy program of 
          Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 924. Establishment of Office of Patient Advocacy of the Department 
          of Veterans Affairs.

            Subtitle C--Complementary and Integrative Health

Sec. 931. Expansion of research and education on and delivery of 
          complementary and integrative health to veterans.
Sec. 932. Expansion of research and education on and delivery of 
          complementary and integrative health to veterans.
Sec. 933. Pilot program on integration of complementary and integrative 
          health and related issues for veterans and family members of 
          veterans.

              Subtitle D--Fitness of Health Care Providers

Sec. 941. Additional requirements for hiring of health care providers by 
          Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 942. Provision of information on health care providers of 
          Department of Veterans Affairs to State medical boards.
Sec. 943. Report on compliance by Department of Veterans Affairs with 
          reviews of health care providers leaving the Department or 
          transferring to other facilities.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 951. Modification to limitation on awards and bonuses.

                   TITLE I--PREVENTION AND EDUCATION

    SEC. 101. TASK FORCE ON PAIN MANAGEMENT.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    Health and Human Services.
        (2) Task force.--The term ``task force'' means the Pain 
    Management Best Practices Inter-Agency Task Force convened under 
    subsection (b).
    (b) Inter-Agency Task Force.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
of enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in cooperation with the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense, shall 
convene a Pain Management Best Practices Inter-Agency Task Force.
    (c) Membership.--The task force shall be comprised of--
        (1) representatives of--
            (A) the Department of Health and Human Services and 
        relevant agencies within the Department of Health and Human 
        Services;
            (B) the Department of Veterans Affairs;
            (C) the Department of Defense; and
            (D) the Office of National Drug Control Policy;
        (2) currently licensed and practicing physicians, dentists, and 
    nonphysician prescribers;
        (3) currently licensed and practicing pharmacists and 
    pharmacies;
        (4) experts in the fields of pain research and addiction 
    research, including adolescent and young adult addiction research;
        (5) representatives of--
            (A) pain management professional organizations;
            (B) the mental health treatment community;
            (C) the addiction treatment community, including 
        individuals in recovery from substance use disorder;
            (D) pain advocacy groups, including patients;
            (E) veteran service organizations;
            (F) groups with expertise on overdose reversal, including 
        first responders;
            (G) State medical boards; and
            (H) hospitals;
        (6) experts on the health of, and prescription opioid use 
    disorders in, members of the Armed Forces and veterans; and
        (7) experts in the field of minority health.
    (d) Representation.--The Secretary shall ensure that the membership 
of the task force includes individuals representing rural and 
underserved areas.
    (e) Duties.--The task force shall--
        (1) identify, review, and, as appropriate, determine whether 
    there are gaps in or inconsistencies between best practices for 
    pain management (including chronic and acute pain) developed or 
    adopted by Federal agencies;
        (2) not later than 1 year after the date on which the task 
    force is convened under subsection (b), propose updates to best 
    practices and recommendations on addressing gaps or inconsistencies 
    identified under paragraph (1), as appropriate, and submit to 
    relevant Federal agencies and the general public such proposed 
    updates and recommendations, taking into consideration--
            (A) existing pain management research and other relevant 
        research;
            (B) recommendations from relevant conferences and existing 
        relevant evidence-based guidelines;
            (C) ongoing efforts at the State and local levels and by 
        medical professional organizations to develop improved pain 
        management strategies, including consideration of differences 
        within and between classes of opioids, the availability of 
        opioids with abuse deterrent technology, and pharmacological, 
        nonpharmacological, and medical device alternatives to opioids 
        to reduce opioid monotherapy in appropriate cases;
            (D) the management of high-risk populations who receive 
        opioids in the course of medical care, other than for pain 
        management;
            (E) the 2016 Guideline for Prescribing Opioids for Chronic 
        Pain issued by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; 
        and
            (F) private sector, State, and local government efforts 
        related to pain management and prescribing pain medication;
        (3) provide the public with at least 90 days to submit comments 
    on any proposed updates and recommendations under paragraph (2); 
    and
        (4) develop a strategy for disseminating information about best 
    practices for pain management (including chronic and acute pain) to 
    stakeholders, if appropriate.
    (f) Limitation.--The task force shall not have rulemaking 
authority.
    (g) Sunset.--The task force under this section shall sunset after 3 
years.
    SEC. 102. AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, in 
coordination with the heads of other departments and agencies, shall, 
as appropriate, through existing programs and activities, advance the 
education and awareness of the public (including providers, patients, 
and consumers) and other appropriate entities regarding the risk of 
abuse of prescription opioids if such drugs are not taken as 
prescribed.
    (b) Topics.--The education and awareness campaigns under subsection 
(a) shall address--
        (1) the dangers of opioid abuse;
        (2) the prevention of opioid abuse, including through safe 
    disposal of prescription medications and other safety precautions; 
    and
        (3) the detection of early warning signs of addiction.
    (c) Other Requirements.--The education and awareness campaigns 
under subsection (a) shall, as appropriate--
        (1) take into account any association between prescription 
    opioid abuse and heroin use;
        (2) emphasize--
            (A) the similarities between heroin and prescription 
        opioids; and
            (B) the effects of heroin and prescription opioids on the 
        human body; and
        (3) bring greater public awareness to the dangerous effects of 
    fentanyl when mixed with heroin or abused in a similar manner.
    SEC. 103. COMMUNITY-BASED COALITION ENHANCEMENT GRANTS TO ADDRESS 
      LOCAL DRUG CRISES.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
    Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
    Administration.
        (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of the 
    Office of National Drug Control Policy.
        (3) Drug-free communities act of 1997.--The term ``Drug-Free 
    Communities Act of 1997'' means chapter 2 of the National Narcotics 
    Leadership Act of 1988 (21 U.S.C. 1521 et seq.).
        (4) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means an 
    organization that--
            (A) on or before the date of submitting an application for 
        a grant under this section, receives or has received a grant 
        under the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997; and
            (B) has documented, using local data, rates of abuse of 
        opioids or methamphetamines at levels that are--
                (i) significantly higher than the national average as 
            determined by the Secretary (including appropriate 
            consideration of the results of the Monitoring the Future 
            Survey published by the National Institute on Drug Abuse 
            and the National Survey on Drug Use and Health published by 
            the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
            Administration); or
                (ii) higher than the national average, as determined by 
            the Secretary (including appropriate consideration of the 
            results of the surveys described in clause (i)), over a 
            sustained period of time.
        (5) Emerging drug abuse issue.--The term ``emerging drug abuse 
    issue'' means a substance use disorder within an area involving--
            (A) a sudden increase in demand for particular drug abuse 
        treatment services relative to previous demand; and
            (B) a lack of resources in the area to address the emerging 
        problem.
        (6) Local drug crisis.--The term ``local drug crisis'' means, 
    with respect to the area served by an eligible entity--
            (A) a sudden increase in the abuse of opioids or 
        methamphetamines, as documented by local data;
            (B) the abuse of prescription medications, specifically 
        opioids or methamphetamines, that is significantly higher than 
        the national average, over a sustained period of time, as 
        documented by local data; or
            (C) a sudden increase in opioid-related deaths, as 
        documented by local data.
        (7) Opioid.--The term ``opioid'' means any drug having an 
    addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability similar to 
    morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug having such 
    addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.
    (b) Program Authorized.--The Director, in coordination with the 
Administrator, may make grants to eligible entities to implement 
comprehensive community-wide strategies that address local drug crises 
and emerging drug abuse issues within the area served by the eligible 
entity.
    (c) Application.--
        (1) In general.--An eligible entity seeking a grant under this 
    section shall submit an application to the Director at such time, 
    in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Director 
    may require.
        (2) Criteria.--As part of an application for a grant under this 
    section, the Director shall require an eligible entity to submit a 
    detailed, comprehensive, multisector plan for addressing the local 
    drug crisis or emerging drug abuse issue within the area served by 
    the eligible entity.
    (d) Use of Funds.--An eligible entity shall use a grant received 
under this section--
        (1) for programs designed to implement comprehensive community-
    wide prevention strategies to address the local drug crisis in the 
    area served by the eligible entity, in accordance with the plan 
    submitted under subsection (c)(2);
        (2) to obtain specialized training and technical assistance 
    from the organization funded under section 4 of Public Law 107-82 
    (21 U.S.C. 1521 note); and
        (3) for programs designed to implement comprehensive community-
    wide strategies to address emerging drug abuse issues in the 
    community.
    (e) Supplement Not Supplant.--An eligible entity shall use Federal 
funds received under this section only to supplement the funds that 
would, in the absence of those Federal funds, be made available from 
other Federal and non-Federal sources for the activities described in 
this section, and not to supplant those funds.
    (f) Evaluation.--A grant under this section shall be subject to the 
same evaluation requirements and procedures as the evaluation 
requirements and procedures imposed on the recipient of a grant under 
the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, and may also include an 
evaluation of the effectiveness at reducing abuse of opioids or 
methamphetamines.
    (g) Limitation on Administrative Expenses.--Not more than 8 percent 
of the amounts made available to carry out this section for a fiscal 
year may be used to pay for administrative expenses.
    (h) Delegation Authority.--The Director may enter into an 
interagency agreement with the Administrator to delegate authority for 
the execution of grants and for such other activities as may be 
necessary to carry out this section.
    (i) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 
for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.
    SEC. 104. INFORMATION MATERIALS AND RESOURCES TO PREVENT ADDICTION 
      RELATED TO YOUTH SPORTS INJURIES.
    (a) Report.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services (referred 
to in this section as the ``Secretary'') shall, not later than 24 
months after the date of the enactment of this section, make publicly 
available on the appropriate website of the Department of Health and 
Human Services a report determining the extent to which informational 
materials and resources described in subsection (c) are available to 
teenagers and adolescents who play youth sports, families of such 
teenagers and adolescents, nurses, youth sports groups, and relevant 
health care provider groups.
    (b) Development of Informational Materials and Resources.--The 
Secretary may, for purposes of preventing substance use disorder in 
teenagers and adolescents who are injured playing youth sports and are 
subsequently prescribed an opioid, not later than 12 months after the 
report is made publicly available under subsection (a), and taking into 
consideration the findings of such report and in coordination with 
relevant health care provider groups, facilitate the development of 
informational materials and resources described in subsection (c) for 
teenagers and adolescents who play youth sports, families of such 
teenagers and adolescents, nurses, youth sports groups, and relevant 
health care provider groups.
    (c) Materials and Resources Described.--For purposes of this 
section, the informational materials and resources described in this 
subsection are informational materials and resources with respect to 
youth sports injuries for which opioids are potentially prescribed, 
including materials and resources focused on the risks associated with 
opioid use and misuse, treatment options for such injuries that do not 
involve the use of opioids, and how to seek treatment for addiction.
    (d) No Additional Funds.--No additional funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this section. This section 
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such 
purpose.
    SEC. 105. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
      TRAINING TO MEET REQUIREMENT FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN HEALTH CARE 
      PROFESSIONALS.
    Part B of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 243 
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 314 the following:
    ``SEC. 315. ASSISTING VETERANS WITH MILITARY EMERGENCY MEDICAL 
      TRAINING TO MEET REQUIREMENTS FOR BECOMING CIVILIAN HEALTH CARE 
      PROFESSIONALS.
    ``(a) Program.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may establish a program, in 
    consultation with the Secretary of Labor, consisting of awarding 
    demonstration grants to States to streamline State requirements and 
    procedures in order to assist veterans who held certain military 
    occupational specialties related to medical care or who have 
    completed certain medical training while serving in the Armed 
    Forces of the United States to meet certification, licensure, and 
    other requirements applicable to civilian health care professions 
    (such as emergency medical technician, paramedic, licensed 
    practical nurse, registered nurse, physical therapy assistant, or 
    physician assistant professions) in the State.
        ``(2) Consultation and collaboration.--In determining the 
    eligible military occupational specialties or training courses and 
    the assistance required as described in paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Defense, the 
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs, and the Assistant Secretary of Labor 
    for Veterans' Employment and Training, and shall collaborate with 
    the initiatives carried out under section 4114 of title 38, United 
    States Code, and sections 1142 through 1144 of title 10, United 
    States Code.
    ``(b) Use of Funds.--Amounts received as a demonstration grant 
under this section shall be used to--
        ``(1) prepare and implement a plan to streamline State 
    requirements and procedures as described in subsection (a), 
    including by--
            ``(A) determining the extent to which the requirements for 
        the education, training, and skill level of civilian health 
        care professions (such as emergency medical technicians, 
        paramedics, licensed practical nurses, registered nurses, 
        physical therapy assistants, or physician assistants) in the 
        State are equivalent to requirements for the education, 
        training, and skill level of veterans who served in medical 
        related fields while a member of the Armed Forces of the United 
        States; and
            ``(B) identifying methods, such as waivers, for veterans 
        who served in medical related fields while a member of the 
        Armed Forces of the United States to forgo or meet any such 
        equivalent State requirements; and
        ``(2) if necessary to meet workforce shortages or address gaps 
    in education, training, or skill level to meet certification, 
    licensure or other requirements applicable to becoming a civilian 
    health care professional (such as an emergency medical technician, 
    paramedic, licensed practical nurse, registered nurse, physical 
    therapy assistant, or physician assistant professions) in the 
    State, develop or expand career pathways at institutions of higher 
    education to support veterans in meeting such requirements.
    ``(c) Report.--Upon the completion of the demonstration program 
under this section, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on 
the program.
    ``(d) Funding.--No additional funds are authorized to be 
appropriated for the purpose of carrying out this section. This section 
shall be carried out using amounts otherwise available for such 
purpose.
    ``(e) Sunset.--The demonstration program under this section shall 
not exceed 5 years.''.
    SEC. 106. FDA OPIOID ACTION PLAN.
    (a) In General.--
        (1) New drug application.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), prior to the 
        approval pursuant to an application submitted under section 
        505(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 
        355(b)) of a new drug that is an opioid, the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Secretary'') shall refer the application to an advisory 
        committee of the Food and Drug Administration to seek 
        recommendations from such advisory committee.
            (B) Public health exemption.--A referral to an advisory 
        committee under subparagraph (A) is not required with respect 
        to a new opioid drug or drugs if the Secretary--
                (i) finds that such a referral is not in the interest 
            of protecting and promoting public health;
                (ii) finds that such a referral is not necessary based 
            on a review of the relevant scientific information; and
                (iii) submits a notice containing the rationale for 
            such findings to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, 
            and Pensions of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and 
            Commerce of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Pediatric opioid labeling.--The Secretary shall convene the 
    Pediatric Advisory Committee of the Food and Drug Administration to 
    seek recommendations from such Committee regarding a framework for 
    the inclusion of information in the labeling of drugs that are 
    opioids relating to the use of such drugs in pediatric populations 
    before the Secretary approves any labeling or change to labeling 
    for any drug that is an opioid intended for use in a pediatric 
    population.
        (3) Sunset.--The requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) shall 
    cease to be effective on October 1, 2022.
    (b) Prescriber Education.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, acting through the 
Commissioner of Food and Drugs, as part of the Food and Drug 
Administration's evaluation of the Extended-Release/Long-Acting Opioid 
Analgesics Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy, and in consultation 
with relevant stakeholders, shall develop recommendations regarding 
education programs for prescribers of opioids pursuant to section 505-1 
of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 355-1), 
including recommendations on--
        (1) which prescribers should participate in such programs; and
        (2) how often participation in such programs is necessary.
    (c) Guidance on Evaluating the Abuse Deterrence of Generic Solid 
Oral Opioid Drug Products.--Not later than 18 months after the end of 
the period for public comment on the draft guidance entitled ``General 
Principles for Evaluating the Abuse Deterrence of Generic Solid Oral 
Opioid Drug Products'' issued by the Center for Drug Evaluation and 
Research of the Food and Drug Administration in March 2016, the 
Commissioner of Food and Drugs shall publish in the Federal Register a 
final version of such guidance.
    SEC. 107. IMPROVING ACCESS TO OVERDOSE TREATMENT.
    (a) Grants for Reducing Overdose Deaths.--Part D of title V of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd et seq.) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``SEC. 544. GRANTS FOR REDUCING OVERDOSE DEATHS.
    ``(a) Establishment.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall award grants to eligible 
    entities to expand access to drugs or devices approved or cleared 
    under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency 
    treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose.
        ``(2) Maximum grant amount.--A grant awarded under this section 
    may not be for more than $200,000 per grant year.
        ``(3) Eligible entity.--For purposes of this section, the term 
    `eligible entity' means a Federally qualified health center (as 
    defined in section 1861(aa) of the Social Security Act), an opioid 
    treatment program under part 8 of title 42, Code of Federal 
    Regulations, any practitioner dispensing narcotic drugs pursuant to 
    section 303(g) of the Controlled Substances Act, or any other 
    entity that the Secretary deems appropriate.
        ``(4) Prescribing.--For purposes of this section, the term 
    `prescribing' means, with respect to a drug or device approved or 
    cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for 
    emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, the 
    practice of prescribing such drug or device--
            ``(A) in conjunction with an opioid prescription for 
        patients at an elevated risk of overdose;
            ``(B) in conjunction with an opioid agonist approved under 
        section 505 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for the 
        treatment of opioid use disorder;
            ``(C) to the caregiver or a close relative of patients at 
        an elevated risk of overdose from opioids; or
            ``(D) in other circumstances in which a provider identifies 
        a patient is at an elevated risk for an intentional or 
        unintentional drug overdose from heroin or prescription opioid 
        therapies.
    ``(b) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary, in such form 
and manner as specified by the Secretary, an application that 
describes--
        ``(1) the extent to which the area to which the entity will 
    furnish services through use of the grant is experiencing 
    significant morbidity and mortality caused by opioid abuse;
        ``(2) the criteria that will be used to identify eligible 
    patients to participate in such program; and
        ``(3) a plan for sustaining the program after Federal support 
    for the program has ended.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--An eligible entity receiving a grant under 
this section may use amounts under the grant for any of the following 
activities, but may use not more than 20 percent of the grant funds for 
activities described in paragraphs (3) and (4):
        ``(1) To establish a program for prescribing a drug or device 
    approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
    for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose.
        ``(2) To train and provide resources for health care providers 
    and pharmacists on the prescribing of drugs or devices approved or 
    cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for 
    emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose.
        ``(3) To purchase drugs or devices approved or cleared under 
    the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of 
    known or suspected opioid overdose, for distribution under the 
    program described in paragraph (1).
        ``(4) To offset the co-payments and other cost sharing 
    associated with drugs or devices approved or cleared under the 
    Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of 
    known or suspected opioid overdose.
        ``(5) To establish protocols to connect patients who have 
    experienced a drug overdose with appropriate treatment, including 
    medication-assisted treatment and appropriate counseling and 
    behavioral therapies.
    ``(d) Evaluations by Recipients.--As a condition of receipt of a 
grant under this section, an eligible entity shall, for each year for 
which the grant is received, submit to the Secretary an evaluation of 
activities funded by the grant which contains such information as the 
Secretary may reasonably require.
    ``(e) Reports by the Secretary.--Not later than 5 years after the 
date on which the first grant under this section is awarded, the 
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of the House of 
Representatives and of the Senate a report aggregating the information 
received from the grant recipients for such year under subsection (d) 
and evaluating the outcomes achieved by the programs funded by grants 
awarded under this section.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $5,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2017 through 2021.''.
    (b) Improving Access to Overdose Treatment.--
        (1) Information on best practices.--Not later than 180 days 
    after the date of enactment of this Act:
            (A) The Secretary of Health and Human Services may provide 
        information to prescribers within Federally qualified health 
        centers (as defined in paragraph (4) of section 1861(aa) of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa))), and the health care 
        facilities of the Indian Health Service, on best practices for 
        prescribing or co-prescribing a drug or device approved or 
        cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 
        U.S.C. 301 et seq.) for emergency treatment of known or 
        suspected opioid overdose, including for patients receiving 
        chronic opioid therapy and patients being treated for opioid 
        use disorders.
            (B) The Secretary of Defense may provide information to 
        prescribers within Department of Defense medical facilities on 
        best practices for prescribing or co-prescribing a drug or 
        device approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
        Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.) for emergency treatment of 
        known or suspected opioid overdose, including for patients 
        receiving chronic opioid therapy and patients being treated for 
        opioid use disorders.
            (C) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may provide 
        information to prescribers within Department of Veterans 
        Affairs medical facilities on best practices for prescribing or 
        co-prescribing a drug or device approved or cleared under the 
        Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.) 
        for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, 
        including for patients receiving chronic opioid therapy and 
        patients being treated for opioid use disorders.
        (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection should be 
    construed to establish or contribute to a medical standard of care.
    SEC. 108. NIH OPIOID RESEARCH.
    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Institutes of Health 
(referred to in this section as the ``NIH'') may intensify and 
coordinate fundamental, translational, and clinical research of the NIH 
with respect to--
        (1) the understanding of pain;
        (2) the discovery and development of therapies for chronic 
    pain; and
        (3) the development of alternatives to opioids for effective 
    pain treatments.
    (b) Priority and Direction.--The prioritization and direction of 
the Federally funded portfolio of pain research studies shall consider 
recommendations made by the Interagency Pain Research Coordinating 
Committee in concert with the Pain Management Best Practices Inter-
Agency Task Force, and in accordance with the National Pain Strategy, 
the Federal Pain Research Strategy, and the NIH-Wide Strategic Plan for 
Fiscal Years 2016-2020, the latter of which calls for the relative 
burdens of individual diseases and medical disorders to be regarded as 
crucial considerations in balancing the priorities of the Federal 
research portfolio.
    SEC. 109. NATIONAL ALL SCHEDULES PRESCRIPTION ELECTRONIC REPORTING 
      REAUTHORIZATION.
    (a) Amendment to Purpose.--Paragraph (1) of section 2 of the 
National All Schedules Prescription Electronic Reporting Act of 2005 
(Public Law 109-60) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) foster the establishment of State-administered controlled 
    substance monitoring systems in order to ensure that health care 
    providers have access to the accurate, timely prescription history 
    information that they may use as a tool for the early 
    identification of patients at risk for addiction in order to 
    initiate appropriate medical interventions and avert the tragic 
    personal, family, and community consequences of untreated 
    addiction; and''.
    (b) Amendments to Controlled Substance Monitoring Program.--Section 
399O of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280g-3) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
        ``, in consultation with the Administrator of the Substance 
        Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and Director of 
        the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,'' after ``the 
        Secretary'';
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'';
            (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) to maintain an existing State-controlled substance 
        monitoring program.'';
        (2) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Minimum Requirements.--The Secretary shall maintain and, as 
appropriate, supplement or revise (after publishing proposed additions 
and revisions in the Federal Register and receiving public comments 
thereon) minimum requirements for criteria to be used by States for 
purposes of clauses (ii), (v), (vi), and (vii) of subsection 
(c)(1)(A).'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(B)--
                (i) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking 
            ``(a)(1)(B)'' and inserting ``(a)(1)(B) or (a)(1)(C)'';
                (ii) in clause (i), by striking ``program to be 
            improved'' and inserting ``program to be improved or 
            maintained'';
                (iii) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as 
            clauses (iv) and (v), respectively;
                (iv) by inserting after clause (ii), the following:
                ``(iii) a plan to apply the latest advances in health 
            information technology, to the extent practicable, in order 
            to incorporate prescription drug monitoring program data 
            directly into the workflow of prescribers and dispensers to 
            ensure timely access to patients' controlled prescription 
            drug history;'';
                (v) in clause (iv) (as so redesignated), by striking 
            ``; and'' and inserting the following: ``and at least one 
            health information technology system such as electronic 
            health records, health information exchanges, or e-
            prescribing systems;'';
                (vi) in clause (v) (as so redesignated)--

                    (I) by striking ``public health'' and inserting 
                ``public health or safety''; and
                    (II) by striking the period and inserting ``; 
                and''; and

                (vii) by adding at the end the following:
                ``(vi) information, where applicable, on how the 
            controlled substance monitoring program jointly works with 
            the applicant's respective State substance abuse agency to 
            ensure information collected and maintained by the 
            controlled substance monitoring program is used to inform 
            the provision of clinically appropriate substance use 
            disorder services to individuals in need.'';
            (B) in paragraph (3)--
                (i) by striking ``If a State that submits'' and 
            inserting the following:
            ``(A) In general.--If a State that submits'';
                (ii) by inserting before the period at the end ``and 
            include timelines for full implementation of such 
            interoperability. The State shall also describe the manner 
            in which it will achieve interoperability between its 
            monitoring program and health information technology 
            systems, as allowable under State law, and include 
            timelines for the implementation of such 
            interoperability''; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(B) Monitoring of efforts.--The Secretary shall monitor 
        State efforts to achieve interoperability, as described in 
        subparagraph (A).''; and
            (C) in paragraph (5)--
                (i) by striking ``implement or improve'' and inserting 
            ``establish, improve, or maintain''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following: ``The 
            Secretary shall redistribute any funds that are so returned 
            among the remaining grantees under this section in 
            accordance with the formula described in subsection 
            (a)(2)(B).'';
        (4) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``In implementing or improving'' and 
            all that follows through ``(a)(1)(B)'' and inserting ``In 
            establishing, improving, or maintaining a controlled 
            substance monitoring program under this section, a State 
            shall comply, or with respect to a State that applies for a 
            grant under subparagraph (B) or (C) of subsection (a)(1)''; 
            and
                (ii) by striking ``public health'' and inserting 
            ``public health or safety''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(5) The State shall report on interoperability with the 
    controlled substance monitoring program of Federal agencies, where 
    appropriate, interoperability with health information technology 
    systems such as electronic health records, health information 
    exchanges, and e-prescribing, where appropriate, and whether or not 
    the State provides automatic, up-to-date, or daily information 
    about a patient when a practitioner (or the designee of a 
    practitioner, where permitted) requests information about such 
    patient.'';
        (5) in subsections (e), (f)(1), and (g), by striking 
    ``implementing or improving'' each place it appears and inserting 
    ``establishing, improving, or maintaining'';
        (6) in subsection (f)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``misuse of a 
            schedule II, III, or IV substance'' and inserting ``misuse 
            of a controlled substance included in schedule II, III, or 
            IV of section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act''; 
            and
                (ii) in subparagraph (D)--

                    (I) by inserting ``a State substance abuse 
                agency,'' after ``State health department,''; and
                    (II) by striking ``such department, program, or 
                administration'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``such department, program, agency, or administration'' 
                in each such place; and

            (B) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Evaluation and reporting.--Subject to subsection (g), a 
    State receiving a grant under subsection (a) shall provide the 
    Secretary with aggregate data to enable the Secretary--
            ``(A) to evaluate the success of the State's program in 
        achieving its purposes; or
            ``(B) to prepare and submit the report to Congress required 
        by subsection (k)(2).
        ``(4) Research by other entities.--A department, program, 
    agency, or administration receiving nonidentifiable information 
    under paragraph (1)(D) may make such information available to other 
    entities for research purposes.'';
        (7) by striking subsection (k);
        (8) by redesignating subsections (h) through (j) as subsections 
    (i) through (k), respectively;
        (9) in subsections (c)(1)(A)(iv) and (d)(4), by striking 
    ``subsection (h)'' each place it appears and inserting ``subsection 
    (i)'';
        (10) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) Education and Access to the Monitoring System.--A State 
receiving a grant under subsection (a) shall take steps to--
        ``(1) facilitate prescriber and dispenser use of the State's 
    controlled substance monitoring system, to the extent practicable; 
    and
        ``(2) educate prescribers and dispensers on the benefits of the 
    system.'';
        (11) in subsection (k)(2)(A), as so redesignated--
            (A) in clause (ii), by striking ``or affected'' and 
        inserting ``, established or strengthened initiatives to ensure 
        linkages to substance use disorder services, or affected''; and
            (B) in clause (iii), by striking ``including an 
        assessment'' and inserting ``and between controlled substance 
        monitoring programs and health information technology systems, 
        including an assessment'';
        (12) in subsection (l)(1), by striking ``establishment, 
    implementation, or improvement'' and inserting ``establishment, 
    improvement, or maintenance'';
        (13) in subsection (m)(8), by striking ``and the District of 
    Columbia'' and inserting ``, the District of Columbia, and any 
    commonwealth or territory of the United States''; and
        (14) by amending subsection (n) to read as follows:
    ``(n) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated, $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.''.
    SEC. 110. OPIOID OVERDOSE REVERSAL MEDICATION ACCESS AND EDUCATION 
      GRANT PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290dd et seq.), as amended by section 107, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``SEC. 545. OPIOID OVERDOSE REVERSAL MEDICATION ACCESS AND 
      EDUCATION GRANT PROGRAMS.
    ``(a) Grants to States.--The Secretary shall make grants to States 
to--
        ``(1) implement strategies for pharmacists to dispense a drug 
    or device approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
    Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
    overdose, as appropriate, pursuant to a standing order;
        ``(2) encourage pharmacies to dispense opioid overdose reversal 
    medication pursuant to a standing order;
        ``(3) develop or provide training materials that persons 
    authorized to prescribe or dispense a drug or device approved or 
    cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for 
    emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose may use 
    to educate the public concerning--
            ``(A) when and how to safely administer such drug or 
        device; and
            ``(B) steps to be taken after administering such drug or 
        device; and
        ``(4) educate the public concerning the availability of drugs 
    or devices approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
    Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
    overdose without a person-specific prescription.
    ``(b) Certain Requirement.--A grant may be made under this section 
only if the State involved has authorized standing orders to be issued 
for drugs or devices approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, 
and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
overdose.
    ``(c) Preference in Making Grants.--In making grants under this 
section, the Secretary may give preference to States that have a 
significantly higher rate of opioid overdoses than the national 
average, and that--
        ``(1) have not implemented standing orders regarding drugs or 
    devices approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
    Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
    overdose;
        ``(2) authorize standing orders to be issued that permit 
    community-based organizations, substance abuse programs, or other 
    nonprofit entities to acquire, dispense, or administer drugs or 
    devices approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
    Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
    overdose; or
        ``(3) authorize standing orders to be issued that permit 
    police, fire, or emergency medical services agencies to acquire and 
    administer drugs or devices approved or cleared under the Federal 
    Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or 
    suspected opioid overdose.
    ``(d) Grant Terms.--
        ``(1) Number.--A State may not receive more than one grant 
    under this section at a time.
        ``(2) Period.--A grant under this section shall be for a period 
    of 3 years.
        ``(3) Limitation.--A State may use not more than 20 percent of 
    a grant under this section for educating the public pursuant to 
    subsection (a)(4).
    ``(e) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, a State shall submit an application to the Secretary in such 
form and manner and containing such information as the Secretary may 
reasonably require, including detailed proposed expenditures of grant 
funds.
    ``(f) Reporting.--A State that receives a grant under this section 
shall, at least annually for the duration of the grant, submit a report 
to the Secretary evaluating the progress of the activities supported 
through the grant. Such reports shall include information on the number 
of pharmacies in the State that dispense a drug or device approved or 
cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency 
treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose under a standing order, 
and other information as the Secretary determines appropriate to 
evaluate the use of grant funds.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section the term `standing order' means 
a document prepared by a person authorized to prescribe medication that 
permits another person to acquire, dispense, or administer medication 
without a person-specific prescription.
    ``(h) Authorization of Appropriations.--
        ``(1) In general.--To carry out this section, there are 
    authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for the period of fiscal 
    years 2017 through 2019.
        ``(2) Administrative costs.--Not more than 3 percent of the 
    amounts made available to carry out this section may be used by the 
    Secretary for administrative expenses of carrying out this 
    section.''.
    (b) Technical Clarification.--Effective as if included in the 
enactment of the Children's Health Act of 2000 (Public Law 106-310), 
section 3405(a) of such Act (114 Stat. 1221) is amended by striking 
``Part E of title III'' and inserting ``Part E of title III of the 
Public Health Service Act''.

                TITLE II--LAW ENFORCEMENT AND TREATMENT

    SEC. 201. COMPREHENSIVE OPIOID ABUSE GRANT PROGRAM.
    (a) Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program.--
        (1) In general.--Title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
    Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 3711 et seq.) is amended by adding 
    at the end the following:

          ``PART LL--COMPREHENSIVE OPIOID ABUSE GRANT PROGRAM

``SEC. 3021. DESCRIPTION.
    ``(a) Grants Authorized.--From amounts made available to carry out 
this part, the Attorney General may make grants to States, units of 
local government, and Indian tribes, for use by the State, unit of 
local government, or Indian tribe to provide services primarily 
relating to opioid abuse, including for any one or more of the 
following:
        ``(1) Developing, implementing, or expanding a treatment 
    alternative to incarceration program, which may include--
            ``(A) prebooking or postbooking components, which may 
        include the activities described in part DD or HH of this 
        title;
            ``(B) training for criminal justice agency personnel on 
        substance use disorders and co-occurring mental illness and 
        substance use disorders;
            ``(C) a mental health court, including the activities 
        described in part V of this title;
            ``(D) a drug court, including the activities described in 
        part EE of this title;
            ``(E) a veterans treatment court program, including the 
        activities described in subsection (i) of section 2991 of this 
        title;
            ``(F) a focus on parents whose incarceration could result 
        in their children entering the child welfare system; and
            ``(G) a community-based substance use diversion program 
        sponsored by a law enforcement agency.
        ``(2) In the case of a State, facilitating or enhancing 
    planning and collaboration between State criminal justice agencies 
    and State substance abuse agencies in order to more efficiently and 
    effectively carry out activities or services described in any 
    paragraph of this subsection that address problems related to 
    opioid abuse.
        ``(3) Providing training and resources for first responders on 
    carrying and administering an opioid overdose reversal drug or 
    device approved or cleared by the Food and Drug Administration, and 
    purchasing such a drug or device for first responders who have 
    received such training to so carry and administer.
        ``(4) Locating or investigating illicit activities related to 
    the unlawful distribution of opioids.
        ``(5) Developing, implementing, or expanding a medication-
    assisted treatment program used or operated by a criminal justice 
    agency, which may include training criminal justice agency 
    personnel on medication-assisted treatment, and carrying out the 
    activities described in part S of this title.
        ``(6) In the case of a State, developing, implementing, or 
    expanding a prescription drug monitoring program to collect and 
    analyze data related to the prescribing of schedules II, III, and 
    IV controlled substances through a centralized database 
    administered by an authorized State agency, which includes tracking 
    the dispensation of such substances, and providing for 
    interoperability and data sharing with each other such program in 
    each other State, and with any interstate entity that shares 
    information between such programs.
        ``(7) Developing, implementing, or expanding a program to 
    prevent and address opioid abuse by juveniles.
        ``(8) Developing, implementing, or expanding a program (which 
    may include demonstration projects) to utilize technology that 
    provides a secure container for prescription drugs that would 
    prevent or deter individuals, particularly adolescents, from 
    gaining access to opioid medications that are lawfully prescribed 
    for other individuals.
        ``(9) Developing, implementing, or expanding a prescription 
    drug take-back program.
        ``(10) Developing, implementing, or expanding an integrated and 
    comprehensive opioid abuse response program.
    ``(b) Contracts and Subawards.--A State, unit of local government, 
or Indian tribe may, in using a grant under this part for purposes 
authorized by subsection (a), use all or a portion of that grant to 
contract with, or make one or more subawards to, one or more--
        ``(1) local or regional organizations that are private and 
    nonprofit, including faith-based organizations;
        ``(2) units of local government; or
        ``(3) tribal organizations.
    ``(c) Program Assessment Component; Waiver.--
        ``(1) Program assessment component.--Each program funded under 
    this part shall contain a program assessment component, developed 
    pursuant to guidelines established by the Attorney General, in 
    coordination with the National Institute of Justice.
        ``(2) Waiver.--The Attorney General may waive the requirement 
    of paragraph (1) with respect to a program if, in the opinion of 
    the Attorney General, the program is not of sufficient size to 
    justify a full program assessment.
    ``(d) Administrative Costs.--Not more than 10 percent of a grant 
made under this part may be used for costs incurred to administer such 
grant.
    ``(e) Period.--The period of a grant made under this part may not 
be longer than 4 years, except that renewals and extensions beyond that 
period may be granted at the discretion of the Attorney General.
``SEC. 3022. APPLICATIONS.
    ``To request a grant under this part, the chief executive officer 
of a State, unit of local government, or Indian tribe shall submit an 
application to the Attorney General at such time and in such form as 
the Attorney General may require. Such application shall include the 
following:
        ``(1) A certification that Federal funds made available under 
    this part will not be used to supplant State, local, or tribal 
    funds, but will be used to increase the amounts of such funds that 
    would, in the absence of Federal funds, be made available for the 
    activities described in section 3021(a).
        ``(2) An assurance that, for each fiscal year covered by an 
    application, the applicant shall maintain and report such data, 
    records, and information (programmatic and financial) as the 
    Attorney General may reasonably require.
        ``(3) A certification, made in a form acceptable to the 
    Attorney General and executed by the chief executive officer of the 
    applicant (or by another officer of the applicant, if qualified 
    under regulations promulgated by the Attorney General), that--
            ``(A) the activities or services to be funded by the grant 
        meet all the requirements of this part;
            ``(B) all the information contained in the application is 
        correct;
            ``(C) there has been appropriate coordination with affected 
        agencies; and
            ``(D) the applicant will comply with all provisions of this 
        part and all other applicable Federal laws.
        ``(4) An assurance that the applicant will work with the Drug 
    Enforcement Administration to develop an integrated and 
    comprehensive strategy to address opioid abuse.
``SEC. 3023. REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
    ``The Attorney General shall not finally disapprove any application 
(or any amendment to that application) submitted under this part 
without first affording the applicant reasonable notice of any 
deficiencies in the application and an opportunity for correction of 
any such deficiencies and reconsideration.
``SEC. 3024. EQUITABLE DISTRIBUTION OF FUNDS.
    ``In awarding grants under this part, the Attorney General shall 
distribute funds in a manner that--
        ``(1) equitably addresses the needs of underserved populations, 
    including rural and tribal communities; and
        ``(2) focuses on communities that have been disproportionately 
    impacted by opioid abuse as evidenced in part by--
            ``(A) high rates of primary treatment admissions for heroin 
        and other opioids;
            ``(B) high rates of drug poisoning deaths from heroin and 
        other opioids; and
            ``(C) a lack of accessibility to treatment providers and 
        facilities and to emergency medical services.
``SEC. 3025. DEFINITIONS.
    ``In this part:
        ``(1) The term `first responder' includes a firefighter, law 
    enforcement officer, paramedic, emergency medical technician, or 
    other individual (including an employee of a legally organized and 
    recognized volunteer organization, whether compensated or not), 
    who, in the course of his or her professional duties, responds to 
    fire, medical, hazardous material, or other similar emergencies.
        ``(2) The term `medication-assisted treatment' means the use of 
    medications approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the 
    treatment of opioid abuse.
        ``(3) The term `opioid' means any drug, including heroin, 
    having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability 
    similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug 
    having such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.
        ``(4) The term `schedule II, III, or IV controlled substance' 
    means a controlled substance that is listed on schedule II, 
    schedule III, or schedule IV of section 202(c) of the Controlled 
    Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812(c)).
        ``(5) The terms `drug' and `device' have the meanings given 
    those terms in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
    Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
        ``(6) The term `criminal justice agency' means a State, local, 
    or tribal--
            ``(A) court;
            ``(B) prison;
            ``(C) jail;
            ``(D) law enforcement agency; or
            ``(E) other agency that performs the administration of 
        criminal justice, including prosecution, pretrial services, and 
        community supervision.
        ``(7) The term `tribal organization' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education 
    Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
        ``(8) The term `State substance abuse agency' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 508(r)(6) of the Public Health Service 
    Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1).''.
        (2) Authorization of appropriations.--Section 1001(a) of title 
    I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 
    U.S.C. 3793(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph (26) the 
    following:
        ``(27) There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
    part LL $103,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.''.
    (b) Emergency Federal Law Enforcement Assistance.--Section 609Y(a) 
of the Justice Assistance Act of 1984 (42 U.S.C. 10513(a)) is amended 
by striking ``September 30, 1984'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2021''.
    (c) Inclusion of Services for Pregnant Women Under Family-Based 
Substance Abuse Grants.--Part DD of title I of the Omnibus Crime 
Control and Safe Streets Act (42 U.S.C. 3797s et seq.) is amended--
        (1) in section 2921(2), by inserting before the period at the 
    end ``or pregnant women''; and
        (2) in section 2927--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``pregnant or'' 
        before ``a parent''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or pregnant women'' 
        after ``incarcerated parents''.
    (d) GAO Study and Report on Federal Agency Programs and Research 
Relative to Substance Use and Substance Use Disorders Among Adolescents 
and Young Adults.--
        (1) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
    conduct a study on how Federal agencies, through grant programs, 
    are addressing prevention of, treatment for, and recovery from, 
    substance use by, and substance use disorders among, adolescents 
    and young adults. Such study shall include an analysis of each of 
    the following:
            (A) The research that has been, and is being, conducted or 
        supported pursuant to grant programs operated by Federal 
        agencies on prevention of, treatment for, and recovery from 
        substance use by and substance use disorders among adolescents 
        and young adults, including an assessment of--
                (i) such research relative to any unique circumstances 
            (including social and biological circumstances) of 
            adolescents and young adults that may make adolescent-
            specific and young adult-specific treatment protocols 
            necessary, including any effects that substance use and 
            substance use disorders may have on brain development and 
            the implications for treatment and recovery; and
                (ii) areas of such research in which greater investment 
            or focus is necessary relative to other areas of such 
            research.
            (B) Federal agency nonresearch programs and activities that 
        address prevention of, treatment for, and recovery from 
        substance use by and substance use disorders among adolescents 
        and young adults, including an assessment of the effectiveness 
        of such programs and activities in preventing substance use by 
        and substance use disorders among adolescents and young adults, 
        treating such adolescents and young adults in a way that 
        accounts for any unique circumstances faced by adolescents and 
        young adults, and supports long-term recovery among adolescents 
        and young adults.
            (C) Gaps that have been identified by officials of Federal 
        agencies or experts in the efforts supported by grant programs 
        operated by Federal agencies relating to prevention of, 
        treatment for, and recovery from substance use by and substance 
        use disorders among adolescents and young adults, including 
        gaps in research, data collection, and measures to evaluate the 
        effectiveness of such efforts, and the reasons for such gaps.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
    of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
    appropriate committees of the Congress a report containing the 
    results of the study conducted under paragraph (1), including--
            (A) a summary of the findings of the study; and
            (B) recommendations based on the results of the study, 
        including recommendations for such areas of research and 
        legislative and administrative action as the Comptroller 
        General determines appropriate.
    SEC. 202. FIRST RESPONDER TRAINING.
    Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd 
et seq.), as amended by section 110, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``SEC. 546. FIRST RESPONDER TRAINING.
    ``(a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary shall make grants to 
States, local governmental entities, and Indian tribes and tribal 
organizations (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination 
and Education Assistance Act) to allow first responders and members of 
other key community sectors to administer a drug or device approved or 
cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency 
treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose.
    ``(b) Application.--
        ``(1) In general.--An entity seeking a grant under this section 
    shall submit an application to the Secretary--
            ``(A) that meets the criteria under paragraph (2); and
            ``(B) at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such 
        information as the Secretary may require.
        ``(2) Criteria.--An entity, in submitting an application under 
    paragraph (1), shall--
            ``(A) describe the evidence-based methodology and outcome 
        measurements that will be used to evaluate the program funded 
        with a grant under this section, and specifically explain how 
        such measurements will provide valid measures of the impact of 
        the program;
            ``(B) describe how the program could be broadly replicated 
        if demonstrated to be effective;
            ``(C) identify the governmental and community agencies with 
        which the entity will coordinate to implement the program; and
            ``(D) describe how the entity will ensure that law 
        enforcement agencies will coordinate with their corresponding 
        State substance abuse and mental health agencies to identify 
        protocols and resources that are available to overdose victims 
        and families, including information on treatment and recovery 
        resources.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--An entity shall use a grant received under 
this section to--
        ``(1) make a drug or device approved or cleared under the 
    Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of 
    known or suspected opioid overdose available to be carried and 
    administered by first responders and members of other key community 
    sectors;
        ``(2) train and provide resources for first responders and 
    members of other key community sectors on carrying and 
    administering a drug or device approved or cleared under the 
    Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of 
    known or suspected opioid overdose; and
        ``(3) establish processes, protocols, and mechanisms for 
    referral to appropriate treatment, which may include an outreach 
    coordinator or team to connect individuals receiving opioid 
    overdose reversal drugs to followup services.
    ``(d) Technical Assistance Grants.--The Secretary shall make a 
grant for the purpose of providing technical assistance and training on 
the use of a drug or device approved or cleared under the Federal Food, 
Drug, and Cosmetic Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected 
opioid overdose, and mechanisms for referral to appropriate treatment 
for an entity receiving a grant under this section.
    ``(e) Geographic Distribution.--In making grants under this 
section, the Secretary shall ensure that not less than 20 percent of 
grant funds are awarded to eligible entities that are not located in 
metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by the Office of Management 
and Budget). The Secretary shall take into account the unique needs of 
rural communities, including communities with an incidence of 
individuals with opioid use disorder that is above the national average 
and communities with a shortage of prevention and treatment services.
    ``(f) Evaluation.--The Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of 
grants made under this section to determine--
        ``(1) the number of first responders and members of other key 
    community sectors equipped with a drug or device approved or 
    cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for 
    emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose;
        ``(2) the number of opioid and heroin overdoses reversed by 
    first responders and members of other key community sectors 
    receiving training and supplies of a drug or device approved or 
    cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for 
    emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid overdose, through 
    a grant received under this section;
        ``(3) the number of responses to requests for services by the 
    entity or subgrantee, to opioid and heroin overdose; and
        ``(4) the extent to which overdose victims and families receive 
    information about treatment services and available data describing 
    treatment admissions.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $12,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.''.
    SEC. 203. PRESCRIPTION DRUG TAKE BACK EXPANSION.
    (a) Definition of Covered Entity.--In this section, the term 
``covered entity'' means--
        (1) a State, local, or tribal law enforcement agency;
        (2) a manufacturer, distributor, or reverse distributor of 
    prescription medications;
        (3) a retail pharmacy;
        (4) a registered narcotic treatment program;
        (5) a hospital or clinic with an onsite pharmacy;
        (6) an eligible long-term care facility; or
        (7) any other entity authorized by the Drug Enforcement 
    Administration to dispose of prescription medications.
    (b) Program Authorized.--The Attorney General, in coordination with 
the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, and the Director of the Office of 
National Drug Control Policy, shall coordinate with covered entities in 
expanding or making available disposal sites for unwanted prescription 
medications.

                   TITLE III--TREATMENT AND RECOVERY

    SEC. 301. EVIDENCE-BASED PRESCRIPTION OPIOID AND HEROIN TREATMENT 
      AND INTERVENTIONS DEMONSTRATION.
    Subpart 1 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 290bb et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 514B. EVIDENCE-BASED PRESCRIPTION OPIOID AND HEROIN TREATMENT 
AND INTERVENTIONS DEMONSTRATION.
    ``(a) Grants To Expand Access.--
        ``(1) Authority to award grants.--The Secretary shall award 
    grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements to State substance 
    abuse agencies, units of local government, nonprofit organizations, 
    and Indian tribes and tribal organizations (as defined in section 4 
    of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act) that 
    have a high rate, or have had a rapid increase, in the use of 
    heroin or other opioids, in order to permit such entities to expand 
    activities, including an expansion in the availability of evidence-
    based medication-assisted treatment and other clinically 
    appropriate services, with respect to the treatment of addiction in 
    the specific geographical areas of such entities where there is a 
    high rate or rapid increase in the use of heroin or other opioids, 
    such as in rural areas.
        ``(2) Nature of activities.--Funds awarded under paragraph (1) 
    shall be used for activities that are based on reliable scientific 
    evidence of efficacy in the treatment of problems related to heroin 
    or other opioids.
    ``(b) Application.--To be eligible for a grant, contract, or 
cooperative agreement under subsection (a), an entity shall submit an 
application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and 
accompanied by such information as the Secretary may reasonably 
require.
    ``(c) Evaluation.--An entity that receives a grant, contract, or 
cooperative agreement under subsection (a) shall submit, in the 
application for such grant, contract, or agreement a plan for the 
evaluation of any project undertaken with funds provided under this 
section. Such entity shall provide the Secretary with periodic 
evaluations of the progress of such project and an evaluation at the 
completion of such project as the Secretary determines to be 
appropriate.
    ``(d) Geographic Distribution.--In awarding grants, contracts, and 
cooperative agreements under this section, the Secretary shall ensure 
that not less than 15 percent of funds are awarded to eligible entities 
that are not located in metropolitan statistical areas (as defined by 
the Office of Management and Budget). The Secretary shall take into 
account the unique needs of rural communities, including communities 
with an incidence of individuals with opioid use disorder that is above 
the national average and communities with a shortage of prevention and 
treatment services.
    ``(e) Additional Activities.--In administering grants, contracts, 
and cooperative agreements under subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
        ``(1) evaluate the activities supported under such subsection;
        ``(2) disseminate information, as appropriate, derived from 
    evaluations as the Secretary considers appropriate;
        ``(3) provide States, Indian tribes and tribal organizations, 
    and providers with technical assistance in connection with the 
    provision of treatment of problems related to heroin and other 
    opioids; and
        ``(4) fund only those applications that specifically support 
    recovery services as a critical component of the program involved.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.''.
    SEC. 302. BUILDING COMMUNITIES OF RECOVERY.
    Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd 
et seq.), as amended by section 202, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``SEC. 547. BUILDING COMMUNITIES OF RECOVERY.
    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `recovery community 
organization' means an independent nonprofit organization that--
        ``(1) mobilizes resources within and outside of the recovery 
    community to increase the prevalence and quality of long-term 
    recovery from substance use disorders; and
        ``(2) is wholly or principally governed by people in recovery 
    for substance use disorders who reflect the community served.
    ``(b) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary shall award grants to 
recovery community organizations to enable such organizations to 
develop, expand, and enhance recovery services.
    ``(c) Federal Share.--The Federal share of the costs of a program 
funded by a grant under this section may not exceed 50 percent.
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--Grants awarded under subsection (b)--
        ``(1) shall be used to develop, expand, and enhance community 
    and statewide recovery support services; and
        ``(2) may be used to--
            ``(A) build connections between recovery networks, between 
        recovery community organizations, and with other recovery 
        support services, including--
                ``(i) behavioral health providers;
                ``(ii) primary care providers and physicians;
                ``(iii) the criminal justice system;
                ``(iv) employers;
                ``(v) housing services;
                ``(vi) child welfare agencies; and
                ``(vii) other recovery support services that facilitate 
            recovery from substance use disorders;
            ``(B) reduce the stigma associated with substance use 
        disorders; and
            ``(C) conduct outreach on issues relating to substance use 
        disorders and recovery, including--
                ``(i) identifying the signs of addiction;
                ``(ii) the resources available to individuals 
            struggling with addiction and to families with a family 
            member struggling with, or being treated for, addiction, 
            including programs that mentor and provide support services 
            to children;
                ``(iii) the resources available to help support 
            individuals in recovery; and
                ``(iv) related medical outcomes of substance use 
            disorders, the potential of acquiring an infectious disease 
            from intravenous drug use, and neonatal abstinence syndrome 
            among infants exposed to opioids during pregnancy.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.''.
    SEC. 303. MEDICATION-ASSISTED TREATMENT FOR RECOVERY FROM 
      ADDICTION.
    (a) In General.--
        (1) In general.--Section 303(g)(2) of the Controlled Substances 
    Act (21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2)) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking clauses (i), (ii), and 
        (iii) and inserting the following:
        ``(i) The practitioner is a qualifying practitioner (as defined 
    in subparagraph (G)).
        ``(ii) With respect to patients to whom the practitioner will 
    provide such drugs or combinations of drugs, the practitioner has 
    the capacity to provide directly, by referral, or in such other 
    manner as determined by the Secretary--
            ``(I) all drugs approved by the Food and Drug 
        Administration for the treatment of opioid use disorder, 
        including for maintenance, detoxification, overdose reversal, 
        and relapse prevention; and
            ``(II) appropriate counseling and other appropriate 
        ancillary services.
        ``(iii)(I) The total number of such patients of the 
    practitioner at any one time will not exceed the applicable number. 
    Except as provided in subclause (II), the applicable number is 30.
        ``(II) The applicable number is 100 if, not sooner than 1 year 
    after the date on which the practitioner submitted the initial 
    notification, the practitioner submits a second notification to the 
    Secretary of the need and intent of the practitioner to treat up to 
    100 patients.
        ``(III) The Secretary may by regulation change such applicable 
    number.
        ``(IV) The Secretary may exclude from the applicable number 
    patients to whom such drugs or combinations of drugs are directly 
    administered by the qualifying practitioner in the office 
    setting.'';
            (B) in subparagraph (D)--
                (i) in clause (ii), by striking ``Upon receiving a 
            notification under subparagraph (B)'' and inserting ``Upon 
            receiving a determination from the Secretary under clause 
            (iii) finding that a practitioner meets all requirements 
            for a waiver under subparagraph (B)''; and
                (ii) in clause (iii)--

                    (I) by inserting ``and shall forward such 
                determination to the Attorney General'' before the 
                period at the end of the first sentence; and
                    (II) by striking ``physician'' and inserting 
                ``practitioner'';

            (C) in subparagraph (G)--
                (i) by amending clause (ii)(I) to read as follows:

                    ``(I) The physician holds a board certification in 
                addiction psychiatry or addiction medicine from the 
                American Board of Medical Specialties.'';

                (ii) by amending clause (ii)(II) to read as follows:

                    ``(II) The physician holds an addiction 
                certification or board certification from the American 
                Society of Addiction Medicine or the American Board of 
                Addiction Medicine.'';

                (iii) in clause (ii)(III), by striking 
            ``subspecialty'';
                (iv) by amending clause (ii)(IV) to read as follows:
            ``(IV) The physician has, with respect to the treatment and 
        management of opiate-dependent patients, completed not less 
        than 8 hours of training (through classroom situations, 
        seminars at professional society meetings, electronic 
        communications, or otherwise) that is provided by the American 
        Society of Addiction Medicine, the American Academy of 
        Addiction Psychiatry, the American Medical Association, the 
        American Osteopathic Association, the American Psychiatric 
        Association, or any other organization that the Secretary 
        determines is appropriate for purposes of this subclause. Such 
        training shall include--
                ``(aa) opioid maintenance and detoxification;
                ``(bb) appropriate clinical use of all drugs approved 
            by the Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of 
            opioid use disorder;
                ``(cc) initial and periodic patient assessments 
            (including substance use monitoring);
                ``(dd) individualized treatment planning, overdose 
            reversal, and relapse prevention;
                ``(ee) counseling and recovery support services;
                ``(ff) staffing roles and considerations;
                ``(gg) diversion control; and
                ``(hh) other best practices, as identified by the 
            Secretary.''; and
                (v) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(iii) The term `qualifying practitioner' means--
            ``(I) a qualifying physician, as defined in clause (ii); or
            ``(II) during the period beginning on the date of enactment 
        of the Comprehensive Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016 and 
        ending on October 1, 2021, a qualifying other practitioner, as 
        defined in clause (iv).
        ``(iv) The term `qualifying other practitioner' means a nurse 
    practitioner or physician assistant who satisfies each of the 
    following:
            ``(I) The nurse practitioner or physician assistant is 
        licensed under State law to prescribe schedule III, IV, or V 
        medications for the treatment of pain.
            ``(II) The nurse practitioner or physician assistant has--
                ``(aa) completed not fewer than 24 hours of initial 
            training addressing each of the topics listed in clause 
            (ii)(IV) (through classroom situations, seminars at 
            professional society meetings, electronic communications, 
            or otherwise) provided by the American Society of Addiction 
            Medicine, the American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry, the 
            American Medical Association, the American Osteopathic 
            Association, the American Nurses Credentialing Center, the 
            American Psychiatric Association, the American Association 
            of Nurse Practitioners, the American Academy of Physician 
            Assistants, or any other organization that the Secretary 
            determines is appropriate for purposes of this subclause; 
            or
                ``(bb) has such other training or experience as the 
            Secretary determines will demonstrate the ability of the 
            nurse practitioner or physician assistant to treat and 
            manage opiate-dependent patients.
            ``(III) The nurse practitioner or physician assistant is 
        supervised by, or works in collaboration with, a qualifying 
        physician, if the nurse practitioner or physician assistant is 
        required by State law to prescribe medications for the 
        treatment of opioid use disorder in collaboration with or under 
        the supervision of a physician.
    The Secretary may, by regulation, revise the requirements for being 
    a qualifying other practitioner under this clause.''; and
            (D) in subparagraph (H)--
                (i) in clause (i), by inserting after subclause (II) 
            the following:
        ``(III) Such other elements of the requirements under this 
    paragraph as the Secretary determines necessary for purposes of 
    implementing such requirements.''; and
                (ii) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
    ``(ii) Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of the 
Opioid Use Disorder Treatment Expansion and Modernization Act, the 
Secretary shall update the treatment improvement protocol containing 
best practice guidelines for the treatment of opioid-dependent patients 
in office-based settings. The Secretary shall update such protocol in 
consultation with experts in opioid use disorder research and 
treatment.''.
        (2) Opioid defined.--Section 102(18) of the Controlled 
    Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802(18)) is amended by inserting ``or 
    `opioid''' after ``The term `opiate'''.
        (3) Reports to congress.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and not later than 3 years thereafter, 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services, in consultation 
        with the Drug Enforcement Administration and experts in opioid 
        use disorder research and treatment, shall--
                (i) perform a thorough review of the provision of 
            opioid use disorder treatment services in the United 
            States, including services provided in opioid treatment 
            programs and other specialty and nonspecialty settings; and
                (ii) submit a report to the Congress on the findings 
            and conclusions of such review.
            (B) Contents.--Each report under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include an assessment of--
                (i) compliance with the requirements of section 
            303(g)(2) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
            823(g)(2)), as amended by this section;
                (ii) the measures taken by the Secretary of Health and 
            Human Services to ensure such compliance;
                (iii) whether there is further need to increase or 
            decrease the number of patients a practitioner, pursuant to 
            a waiver under section 303(g)(2) of the Controlled 
            Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2)), is permitted to 
            treat;
                (iv) the extent to which, and proportions with which, 
            the full range of Food and Drug Administration-approved 
            treatments for opioid use disorder are used in routine 
            health care settings and specialty substance use disorder 
            treatment settings;
                (v) access to, and use of, counseling and recovery 
            support services, including the percentage of patients 
            receiving such services;
                (vi) changes in State or local policies and legislation 
            relating to opioid use disorder treatment;
                (vii) the use of prescription drug monitoring programs 
            by practitioners who are permitted to dispense narcotic 
            drugs to individuals pursuant to a waiver described in 
            clause (iii);
                (viii) the findings resulting from inspections by the 
            Drug Enforcement Administration of practitioners described 
            in clause (vii); and
                (ix) the effectiveness of cross-agency collaboration 
            between Department of Health and Human Services and the 
            Drug Enforcement Administration for expanding effective 
            opioid use disorder treatment.
    (b) State Flexibility.--Section 303(g)(2) of the Controlled 
Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 823(g)(2)) is amended by striking 
subparagraphs (I) and (J), and inserting the following:
    ``(I) Notwithstanding section 708, nothing in this paragraph shall 
be construed to preempt any State law that--
        ``(i) permits a qualifying practitioner to dispense narcotic 
    drugs in schedule III, IV, or V, or combinations of such drugs, for 
    maintenance or detoxification treatment in accordance with this 
    paragraph to a total number of patients that is more than 30 or 
    less than the total number applicable to the qualifying 
    practitioner under subparagraph (B)(iii)(II) if a State enacts a 
    law modifying such total number and the Attorney General is 
    notified by the State of such modification; or
        ``(ii) requires a qualifying practitioner to comply with 
    additional requirements relating to the dispensing of narcotic 
    drugs in schedule III, IV, or V, or combinations of such drugs, 
    including requirements relating to the practice setting in which 
    the qualifying practitioner practices and education, training, and 
    reporting requirements.''.
    (c) Update Regulations.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Attorney General and the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services, as appropriate, shall update regulations regarding 
practitioners described in subsection (a)(3)(B)(vii) (as amended by 
this section) to include nurse practitioners and physician assistants 
to ensure the quality of patient care and prevent diversion.

              TITLE IV--ADDRESSING COLLATERAL CONSEQUENCES

    SEC. 401. GAO REPORT ON RECOVERY AND COLLATERAL CONSEQUENCES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report 
that--
        (1) describes the collateral consequences for individuals with 
    convictions for nonviolent drug-related offenses;
        (2) describes the effect of the collateral consequences 
    described in paragraph (1) on individuals in resuming their 
    personal and professional activities, especially, to the extent 
    data are available, the effect on individuals who are participating 
    in or have completed a recovery program for a substance use 
    disorder;
        (3) discusses policy bases and justifications for imposing 
    collateral consequences on individuals convicted of nonviolent 
    drug-related offenses identified under paragraph (1); and
        (4) provides perspectives on the potential for mitigating the 
    effect of the collateral consequences described in paragraph (1) on 
    individuals who are participating in or have completed a recovery 
    program, while also taking into account the policy interests 
    described in paragraph (3).
    (b) Definition.--In this section, the term ``collateral 
consequence''--
        (1) means a penalty, disability, or disadvantage imposed upon 
    an individual as a result of a criminal conviction for a drug-
    related offense--
            (A) automatically by operation of law; or
            (B) by authorized action of an administrative agency or 
        court on a case-by-case basis; and
        (2) does not include a direct consequence imposed as part of 
    the judgment of a court at sentencing, including a term of 
    imprisonment or community supervision, or a fine.

  TITLE V--ADDICTION AND TREATMENT SERVICES FOR WOMEN, FAMILIES, AND 
                                VETERANS

    SEC. 501. IMPROVING TREATMENT FOR PREGNANT AND POSTPARTUM WOMEN.
    (a) General Amendments to the Residential Treatment Program for 
Pregnant and Postpartum Women.--Section 508 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
                (i) by inserting ``(referred to in this section as the 
            `Director')'' after ``Substance Abuse Treatment'';
                (ii) by striking ``grants, cooperative agreement,'' and 
            inserting ``grants, including the grants under subsection 
            (r), cooperative agreements''; and
                (iii) by striking ``for substance abuse'' and inserting 
            ``for substance use disorders''; and
            (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or receive outpatient 
        treatment services from'' after ``reside in'';
        (2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``and her children'' 
    before the period at the end;
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``to the woman of the 
        services'' and inserting ``of services for the woman and her 
        children''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``substance 
            abuse'' and inserting ``substance use disorders''; and
                (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``such abuse'' 
            and inserting ``such a disorder'';
        (4) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking ``maternal substance 
        abuse'' and inserting ``a maternal substance use disorder'';
            (B) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
        ``(4) Providing therapeutic, comprehensive child care for 
    children during the periods in which the woman is engaged in 
    therapy or in other necessary health and rehabilitative 
    activities.'';
            (C) in paragraphs (9), (10), and (11), by striking 
        ``women'' each place such term appears and inserting ``woman'';
            (D) in paragraph (9), by striking ``units'' and inserting 
        ``unit''; and
            (E) in paragraph (11)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``their children'' 
            and inserting ``any child of such woman'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
            inserting a semicolon;
                (iii) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period and 
            inserting ``; and''; and
                (iv) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(D) family reunification with children in kinship or 
        foster care arrangements, where safe and appropriate.'';
        (5) in subsection (e)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
            striking ``substance abuse'' and inserting ``substance use 
            disorders''; and
                (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``substance 
            abuse'' and inserting ``substance use disorders''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by striking ``(A) Subject'' and inserting the 
            following:
            ``(A) In general.--Subject'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (B)--

                    (I) by striking ``(B)(i) In the case'' and 
                inserting the following:

            ``(B) Waiver of participation agreements.--
                ``(i) In general.--In the case''; and

                    (II) by striking ``(ii) A determination'' and 
                inserting the following:

                ``(ii) Donations.--A determination''; and
                (iii) by striking ``(C) With respect'' and inserting 
            the following:
            ``(C) Nonapplication of certain requirements.--With 
        respect'';
        (6) in subsection (g)--
            (A) by striking ``who are engaging in substance abuse'' and 
        inserting ``who have a substance use disorder''; and
            (B) by striking ``such abuse'' and inserting ``such 
        disorder'';
        (7) in subsection (j)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``to 
        on'' and inserting ``to or on''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Office for'' and 
        inserting ``Office of'';
        (8) by amending subsection (m) to read as follows:
    ``(m) Allocation of Awards.--In making awards under subsection (a), 
the Director shall give priority to an applicant that agrees to use the 
award for a program serving an area that is a rural area, an area 
designated under section 332 by the Secretary as a health professional 
shortage area, or an area determined by the Director to have a shortage 
of family-based substance use disorder treatment options.''; and
        (9) in subsection (q)--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``funding agreement under 
        subsection (a)'' and inserting ``funding agreement''; and
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``substance abuse'' and 
        inserting ``a substance use disorder''.
    (b) Reauthorization of Program.--Section 508 of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1), as amended by subsection (a), is 
further amended--
        (1) in subsection (p), in the first sentence, by inserting 
    ``(other than subsection (r))'' after ``section''; and
        (2) in subsection (r), by striking ``such sums'' and all that 
    follows through ``2003'' and inserting ``$16,900,000 for each of 
    fiscal years 2017 through 2021''.
    (c) Pilot Program Grants for State Substance Abuse Agencies.--
        (1) In general.--Section 508 of the Public Health Service Act 
    (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1), as amended by subsections (a) and (b), is 
    further amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsection (r), as amended by 
        subsection (b), as subsection (s); and
            (B) by inserting after subsection (q) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(r) Pilot Program for State Substance Abuse Agencies.--
        ``(1) In general.--From amounts made available under subsection 
    (s), the Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment shall 
    carry out a pilot program under which competitive grants are made 
    by the Director to State substance abuse agencies--
            ``(A) to enhance flexibility in the use of funds designed 
        to support family-based services for pregnant and postpartum 
        women with a primary diagnosis of a substance use disorder, 
        including opioid use disorders;
            ``(B) to help State substance abuse agencies address 
        identified gaps in services furnished to such women along the 
        continuum of care, including services provided to women in 
        nonresidential-based settings; and
            ``(C) to promote a coordinated, effective, and efficient 
        State system managed by State substance abuse agencies by 
        encouraging new approaches and models of service delivery.
        ``(2) Requirements.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
    this subsection, the Director shall--
            ``(A) require State substance abuse agencies to submit to 
        the Director applications, in such form and manner and 
        containing such information as specified by the Director, to be 
        eligible to receive a grant under the program;
            ``(B) identify, based on such submitted applications, State 
        substance abuse agencies that are eligible for such grants;
            ``(C) require services proposed to be furnished through 
        such a grant to support family-based treatment and other 
        services for pregnant and postpartum women with a primary 
        diagnosis of a substance use disorder, including opioid use 
        disorders;
            ``(D) not require that services furnished through such a 
        grant be provided solely to women that reside in facilities;
            ``(E) not require that grant recipients under the program 
        make available through use of the grant all the services 
        described in subsection (d); and
            ``(F) consider not applying the requirements described in 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (f) to an applicant, 
        depending on the circumstances of the applicant.
        ``(3) Required services.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Director shall specify a minimum set 
        of services required to be made available to eligible women 
        through a grant awarded under the pilot program under this 
        subsection. Such minimum set of services--
                ``(i) shall include the services requirements described 
            in subsection (c) and be based on the recommendations 
            submitted under subparagraph (B); and
                ``(ii) may be selected from among the services 
            described in subsection (d) and include other services as 
            appropriate.
            ``(B) Stakeholder input.--The Director shall convene and 
        solicit recommendations from stakeholders, including State 
        substance abuse agencies, health care providers, persons in 
        recovery from substance abuse, and other appropriate 
        individuals, for the minimum set of services described in 
        subparagraph (A).
        ``(4) Duration.--The pilot program under this subsection shall 
    not exceed 5 years.
        ``(5) Evaluation and report to congress.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Director of the Center for 
        Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality shall evaluate the 
        pilot program at the conclusion of the first grant cycle funded 
        by the pilot program.
            ``(B) Report.--The Director of the Center for Behavioral 
        Health Statistics and Quality, in coordination with the 
        Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment shall 
        submit to the relevant committees of jurisdiction of the House 
        of Representatives and the Senate a report on the evaluation 
        under subparagraph (A). The report shall include, at a 
        minimum--
                ``(i) outcomes information from the pilot program, 
            including any resulting reductions in the use of alcohol 
            and other drugs;
                ``(ii) engagement in treatment services;
                ``(iii) retention in the appropriate level and duration 
            of services;
                ``(iv) increased access to the use of medications 
            approved by the Food and Drug Administration for the 
            treatment of substance use disorders in combination with 
            counseling; and
                ``(v) other appropriate measures.
            ``(C) Recommendation.--The report under subparagraph (B) 
        shall include a recommendation by the Director of the Center 
        for Substance Abuse Treatment as to whether the pilot program 
        under this subsection should be extended.
        ``(6) State substance abuse agencies defined.--For purposes of 
    this subsection, the term `State substance abuse agency' means, 
    with respect to a State, the agency in such State that manages the 
    Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment Block Grant under part B 
    of title XIX.''.
        (2) Funding.--Subsection (s) of section 508 of the Public 
    Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-1), as amended by subsection 
    (a) and redesignated by paragraph (1), is further amended by adding 
    at the end the following new sentences: ``Of the amounts made 
    available for a year pursuant to the previous sentence to carry out 
    this section, not more than 25 percent of such amounts shall be 
    made available for such year to carry out subsection (r), other 
    than paragraph (5) of such subsection. Notwithstanding the 
    preceding sentence, no funds shall be made available to carry out 
    subsection (r) for a fiscal year unless the amount made available 
    to carry out this section for such fiscal year is more than the 
    amount made available to carry out this section for fiscal year 
    2016.''.
    SEC. 502. VETERANS TREATMENT COURTS.
    Section 2991 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 
1968 (42 U.S.C. 3797aa) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (j); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following:
    ``(i) Assisting Veterans.--
        ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            ``(A) Peer-to-peer services or programs.--The term `peer-
        to-peer services or programs' means services or programs that 
        connect qualified veterans with other veterans for the purpose 
        of providing support and mentorship to assist qualified 
        veterans in obtaining treatment, recovery, stabilization, or 
        rehabilitation.
            ``(B) Qualified veteran.--The term `qualified veteran' 
        means a preliminarily qualified offender who--
                ``(i) served on active duty in any branch of the Armed 
            Forces, including the National Guard or Reserves; and
                ``(ii) was discharged or released from such service 
            under conditions other than dishonorable, unless the reason 
            for the dishonorable discharge was attributable to a 
            substance abuse disorder.
            ``(C) Veterans treatment court program.--The term `veterans 
        treatment court program' means a court program involving 
        collaboration among criminal justice, veterans, and mental 
        health and substance abuse agencies that provides qualified 
        veterans with--
                ``(i) intensive judicial supervision and case 
            management, which may include random and frequent drug 
            testing where appropriate;
                ``(ii) a full continuum of treatment services, 
            including mental health services, substance abuse services, 
            medical services, and services to address trauma;
                ``(iii) alternatives to incarceration; or
                ``(iv) other appropriate services, including housing, 
            transportation, mentoring, employment, job training, 
            education, or assistance in applying for and obtaining 
            available benefits.
        ``(2) Veterans assistance program.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Attorney General, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, may award grants under 
        this subsection to applicants to establish or expand--
                ``(i) veterans treatment court programs;
                ``(ii) peer-to-peer services or programs for qualified 
            veterans;
                ``(iii) practices that identify and provide treatment, 
            rehabilitation, legal, transitional, and other appropriate 
            services to qualified veterans who have been incarcerated; 
            or
                ``(iv) training programs to teach criminal justice, law 
            enforcement, corrections, mental health, and substance 
            abuse personnel how to identify and appropriately respond 
            to incidents involving qualified veterans.
            ``(B) Priority.--In awarding grants under this subsection, 
        the Attorney General shall give priority to applications that--
                ``(i) demonstrate collaboration between and joint 
            investments by criminal justice, mental health, substance 
            abuse, and veterans service agencies;
                ``(ii) promote effective strategies to identify and 
            reduce the risk of harm to qualified veterans and public 
            safety; and
                ``(iii) propose interventions with empirical support to 
            improve outcomes for qualified veterans.''.
    SEC. 503. INFANT PLAN OF SAFE CARE.
    (a) Best Practices for Development of Plans of Safe Care.--Section 
103(b) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 
5104(b)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (5) through (8) as paragraphs 
    (6) through (9), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:
        ``(5) maintain and disseminate information about the 
    requirements of section 106(b)(2)(B)(iii) and best practices 
    relating to the development of plans of safe care as described in 
    such section for infants born and identified as being affected by 
    substance abuse or withdrawal symptoms, or a Fetal Alcohol Spectrum 
    Disorder;''.
    (b) State Plans.--Section 106(b)(2)(B) of the Child Abuse 
Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)(2)(B)) is amended--
        (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``illegal substance abuse'' and 
    inserting ``substance abuse''; and
        (2) in clause (iii)--
            (A) by striking ``illegal substance abuse'' and inserting 
        ``substance abuse''; and
            (B) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the 
        following: ``to ensure the safety and well-being of such infant 
        following release from the care of health care providers, 
        including through--
                ``(I) addressing the health and substance use disorder 
            treatment needs of the infant and affected family or 
            caregiver; and
                ``(II) the development and implementation by the State 
            of monitoring systems regarding the implementation of such 
            plans to determine whether and in what manner local 
            entities are providing, in accordance with State 
            requirements, referrals to and delivery of appropriate 
            services for the infant and affected family or caregiver''.
    (c) Data Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Section 106(d) of the Child Abuse Prevention 
    and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(d)) is amended by adding at the 
    end of the following:
        ``(17) The number of infants--
            ``(A) identified under subsection (b)(2)(B)(ii);
            ``(B) for whom a plan of safe care was developed under 
        subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii); and
            ``(C) for whom a referral was made for appropriate 
        services, including services for the affected family or 
        caregiver, under subsection (b)(2)(B)(iii).''.
        (2) Redesignation.--Effective on May 29, 2017, section 106(d) 
    of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 
    5106a(d)) is amended by redesignating paragraph (17) (as added by 
    paragraph (1)) as paragraph (18).
    (d) Monitoring and Oversight.--
        (1) Amendment.--Title I of the Child Abuse Prevention and 
    Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
    end the following:
    ``SEC. 114. MONITORING AND OVERSIGHT.
    ``The Secretary shall conduct monitoring to ensure that each State 
that receives a grant under section 106 is in compliance with the 
requirements of section 106(b), which--
        ``(1) shall--
            ``(A) be in addition to the review of the State plan upon 
        its submission under section 106(b)(1)(A); and
            ``(B) include monitoring of State policies and procedures 
        required under clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 106(b)(2)(B); 
        and
        ``(2) may include--
            ``(A) a comparison of activities carried out by the State 
        to comply with the requirements of section 106(b) with the 
        State plan most recently approved under section 432 of the 
        Social Security Act;
            ``(B) a review of information available on the website of 
        the State relating to its compliance with the requirements of 
        section 106(b);
            ``(C) site visits, as may be necessary to carry out such 
        monitoring; and
            ``(D) a review of information available in the State's 
        Annual Progress and Services Report most recently submitted 
        under section 1357.16 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (or successor regulations).''.
        (2) Table of contents.--The table of contents in section 1(b) 
    of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5101 
    note) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
    113, the following:

``Sec. 114. Monitoring and oversight.''.

    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the 
amendments made by this section, shall be construed to authorize the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services or any other officer of the 
Federal Government to add new requirements to section 106(b) of the 
Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 U.S.C. 5106a(b)), as 
amended by this section.
    SEC. 504. GAO REPORT ON NEONATAL ABSTINENCE SYNDROME (NAS).
    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Finance and the Committee on 
Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on 
neonatal abstinence syndrome (in this section referred to as ``NAS'') 
in the United States.
    (b) Information To Be Included in Report.--Such report shall 
include information on the following:
        (1) The prevalence of NAS in the United States, including the 
    proportion of children born in the United States with NAS who are 
    eligible for medical assistance under State Medicaid programs under 
    title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) at 
    birth, and the costs associated with coverage under such programs 
    for treatment of infants with NAS.
        (2) The services for which coverage is available under State 
    Medicaid programs for treatment of infants with NAS.
        (3) The settings (including inpatient, outpatient, hospital-
    based, and other settings) for the treatment of infants with NAS 
    and the reimbursement methodologies and costs associated with such 
    treatment in such settings.
        (4) The prevalence of utilization of various care settings 
    under State Medicaid programs for treatment of infants with NAS and 
    any Federal barriers to treating such infants under such programs, 
    particularly in non-hospital-based settings.
        (5) What is known about best practices for treating infants 
    with NAS.
    (c) Recommendations.--Such report also shall include such 
recommendations as the Comptroller General determines appropriate for 
improvements that will ensure access to treatment for infants with NAS 
under State Medicaid programs.

  TITLE VI--INCENTIVIZING STATE COMPREHENSIVE INITIATIVES TO ADDRESS 
                       PRESCRIPTION OPIOID ABUSE

    SEC. 601. STATE DEMONSTRATION GRANTS FOR COMPREHENSIVE OPIOID ABUSE 
      RESPONSE.
    Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd 
et seq.), as amended by section 302, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``SEC. 548. STATE DEMONSTRATION GRANTS FOR COMPREHENSIVE OPIOID 
      ABUSE RESPONSE.
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Dispenser.--The term `dispenser' has the meaning given 
    the term in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 
    802).
        ``(2) Prescriber.--The term `prescriber' means a dispenser who 
    prescribes a controlled substance, or the agent of such a 
    dispenser.
        ``(3) Prescriber of a schedule ii, iii, or iv controlled 
    substance.--The term `prescriber of a schedule II, III, or IV 
    controlled substance' does not include a prescriber of a schedule 
    II, III, or IV controlled substance that dispenses the substance--
            ``(A) for use on the premises on which the substance is 
        dispensed;
            ``(B) in a hospital emergency room, when the substance is 
        in short supply;
            ``(C) for a certified opioid treatment program; or
            ``(D) in other situations as the Secretary may reasonably 
        determine.
        ``(4) Schedule ii, iii, or iv controlled substance.--The term 
    `schedule II, III, or IV controlled substance' means a controlled 
    substance that is listed on schedule II, schedule III, or schedule 
    IV of section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act.
    ``(b) Grants for Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Response.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall award grants to States, 
    and combinations of States, to implement an integrated opioid abuse 
    response initiative.
        ``(2) Purposes.--A State receiving a grant under this section 
    shall establish a comprehensive response plan to opioid abuse, 
    which may include--
            ``(A) education efforts around opioid use, treatment, and 
        addiction recovery, including education of residents, medical 
        students, and physicians and other prescribers of schedule II, 
        III, or IV controlled substances on relevant prescribing 
        guidelines, the prescription drug monitoring program of the 
        State described in subparagraph (B), and overdose prevention 
        methods;
            ``(B) establishing, maintaining, or improving a 
        comprehensive prescription drug monitoring program to track 
        dispensing of schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances, 
        which may--
                ``(i) provide for data sharing with other States; and
                ``(ii) allow all individuals authorized by the State to 
            write prescriptions for schedule II, III, or IV controlled 
            substances to access the prescription drug monitoring 
            program of the State;
            ``(C) developing, implementing, or expanding prescription 
        drug and opioid addiction treatment programs by--
                ``(i) expanding the availability of treatment for 
            prescription drug and opioid addiction, including 
            medication-assisted treatment and behavioral health 
            therapy, as appropriate;
                ``(ii) developing, implementing, or expanding screening 
            for individuals in treatment for prescription drug and 
            opioid addiction for hepatitis C and HIV, and treating or 
            referring those individuals if clinically appropriate; or
                ``(iii) developing, implementing, or expanding recovery 
            support services and programs at high schools or 
            institutions of higher education;
            ``(D) developing, implementing, and expanding efforts to 
        prevent overdose death from opioid abuse or addiction to 
        prescription medications and opioids; and
            ``(E) advancing the education and awareness of the public, 
        providers, patients, consumers, and other appropriate entities 
        regarding the dangers of opioid abuse, safe disposal of 
        prescription medications, and detection of early warning signs 
        of opioid use disorders.
        ``(3) Application.--A State seeking a grant under this section 
    shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, and 
    containing such information, as the Secretary may reasonably 
    require.
        ``(4) Use of funds.--A State that receives a grant under this 
    section shall use the grant for the cost, including the cost for 
    technical assistance, training, and administration expenses, of 
    carrying out an integrated opioid abuse response initiative as 
    outlined by the State's comprehensive response plan to opioid abuse 
    established under paragraph (2).
        ``(5) Priority considerations.--In awarding grants under this 
    section, the Secretary shall, as appropriate, give priority to a 
    State that--
            ``(A)(i) provides civil liability protection for first 
        responders, health professionals, and family members who have 
        received appropriate training in administering a drug or device 
        approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic 
        Act for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
        overdose; and
            ``(ii) submits to the Secretary a certification by the 
        attorney general of the State that the attorney general has--
                ``(I) reviewed any applicable civil liability 
            protection law to determine the applicability of the law 
            with respect to first responders, health care 
            professionals, family members, and other individuals who--

                    ``(aa) have received appropriate training in 
                administering a drug or device approved or cleared 
                under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act for 
                emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
                overdose; and
                    ``(bb) may administer a drug or device approved or 
                cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act 
                for emergency treatment of known or suspected opioid 
                overdose; and

                ``(II) concluded that the law described in subclause 
            (I) provides adequate civil liability protection applicable 
            to such persons;
            ``(B) has a process for enrollment in services and benefits 
        necessary by criminal justice agencies to initiate or continue 
        treatment in the community, under which an individual who is 
        incarcerated may, while incarcerated, enroll in services and 
        benefits that are necessary for the individual to continue 
        treatment upon release from incarceration;
            ``(C) ensures the capability of data sharing with other 
        States, where applicable, such as by making data available to a 
        prescription monitoring hub;
            ``(D) ensures that data recorded in the prescription drug 
        monitoring program database of the State are regularly updated, 
        to the extent possible;
            ``(E) ensures that the prescription drug monitoring program 
        of the State notifies prescribers and dispensers of schedule 
        II, III, or IV controlled substances when overuse or misuse of 
        such controlled substances by patients is suspected; and
            ``(F) has in effect one or more statutes or implements 
        policies that maximize use of prescription drug monitoring 
        programs by individuals authorized by the State to prescribe 
        schedule II, III, or IV controlled substances.
        ``(6) Evaluation.--In conducting an evaluation of the program 
    under this section pursuant to section 701 of the Comprehensive 
    Addiction and Recovery Act of 2016, with respect to a State, the 
    Secretary shall report on State legislation or policies related to 
    maximizing the use of prescription drug monitoring programs and the 
    incidence of opioid use disorders and overdose deaths in such 
    State.
        ``(7) States with local prescription drug monitoring 
    programs.--
            ``(A) In general.--In the case of a State that does not 
        have a prescription drug monitoring program, a county or other 
        unit of local government within the State that has a 
        prescription drug monitoring program shall be treated as a 
        State for purposes of this section, including for purposes of 
        eligibility for grants under paragraph (1).
            ``(B) Plan for interoperability.--In submitting an 
        application to the Secretary under paragraph (3), a county or 
        other unit of local government shall submit a plan outlining 
        the methods such county or unit of local government shall use 
        to ensure the capability of data sharing with other counties 
        and units of local government within the state and with other 
        States, as applicable.
    ``(c) Authorization of Funding.--For the purpose of carrying out 
this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for 
each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.''.

                        TITLE VII--MISCELLANEOUS

    SEC. 701. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY AND EVALUATIONS.
    (a) Department of Justice Grant Accountability.--Part LL of title I 
of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 
3711 et seq.), as added by section 201, is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
``SEC. 3026. GRANT ACCOUNTABILITY.
    ``(a) Definition of Applicable Committees.--In this section, the 
term `applicable committees' means--
        ``(1) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
        ``(2) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
    Representatives.
    ``(b) Accountability.--All grants awarded by the Attorney General 
under this part shall be subject to the following accountability 
provisions:
        ``(1) Audit requirement.--
            ``(A) Definition.--In this paragraph, the term `unresolved 
        audit finding' means a finding in the final audit report of the 
        Inspector General of the Department of Justice that the audited 
        grantee has utilized grant funds for an unauthorized 
        expenditure or otherwise unallowable cost that is not closed or 
        resolved within 12 months after the date on which the final 
        audit report is issued.
            ``(B) Audit.--Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning 
        after the date of enactment of this section, and in each fiscal 
        year thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of 
        Justice shall conduct audits of recipients of grants awarded by 
        the Attorney General under this part to prevent waste, fraud, 
        and abuse of funds by grantees. The Inspector General shall 
        determine the appropriate number of grantees to be audited each 
        year.
            ``(C) Mandatory exclusion.--A recipient of grant funds 
        under this part that is found to have an unresolved audit 
        finding shall not be eligible to receive grant funds under this 
        part during the first 2 fiscal years beginning after the end of 
        the 12-month period described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(D) Priority.--In awarding grants under this part, the 
        Attorney General shall give priority to eligible applicants 
        that did not have an unresolved audit finding during the 3 
        fiscal years before submitting an application for a grant under 
        this part.
            ``(E) Reimbursement.--If an entity is awarded grant funds 
        under this part during the 2-fiscal-year period during which 
        the entity is barred from receiving grants under subparagraph 
        (C), the Attorney General shall--
                ``(i) deposit an amount equal to the amount of the 
            grant funds that were improperly awarded to the grantee 
            into the General Fund of the Treasury; and
                ``(ii) seek to recoup the costs of the repayment to the 
            fund from the grant recipient that was erroneously awarded 
            grant funds.
        ``(2) Nonprofit organization requirements.--
            ``(A) Definition.--For purposes of this paragraph and the 
        grant programs under this part, the term `nonprofit 
        organization' means an organization that is described in 
        section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is 
        exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
            ``(B) Prohibition.--A nonprofit organization that holds 
        money in offshore accounts for the purpose of avoiding paying 
        the tax described in section 511(a) of the Internal Revenue 
        Code of 1986 may not--
                ``(i) be party to a contract entered into under section 
            3021(b); or
                ``(ii) receive a subaward under section 3021(b).
            ``(C) Disclosure.--Each nonprofit organization that 
        receives a subaward or is party to a contract entered into 
        under section 3021(b) and uses the procedures prescribed in 
        regulations to create a rebuttable presumption of 
        reasonableness for the compensation of its officers, directors, 
        trustees, and key employees, shall disclose, in the application 
        for such contract or subaward, the process for determining such 
        compensation, including the independent persons involved in 
        reviewing and approving such compensation, the comparability 
        data used, and contemporaneous substantiation of the 
        deliberation and decision. Upon request, the Attorney General 
        shall make the information disclosed under this subparagraph 
        available for public inspection.
        ``(3) Conference expenditures.--
            ``(A) Limitation.--No amounts made available to the 
        Attorney General under this part may be used by the Attorney 
        General, or by any State, unit of local government, or entity 
        awarded a grant, subaward, or contract under this part, to host 
        or support any expenditure for conferences that uses more than 
        $20,000 in funds made available by the Attorney General, unless 
        the head of the relevant agency, bureau, or program office 
        provides prior written authorization that the funds may be 
        expended to host or support the conference.
            ``(B) Written authorization.--Written authorization under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include a written estimate of all costs 
        associated with the conference, including the cost of all food, 
        beverages, audio-visual equipment, honoraria for speakers, and 
        entertainment.
            ``(C) Report.--The Deputy Attorney General shall submit to 
        the applicable committees an annual report on all conference 
        expenditures approved by the Attorney General under this 
        paragraph.
        ``(4) Annual certification.--Beginning in the first fiscal year 
    beginning after the date of enactment of this section, the Attorney 
    General shall submit to the applicable committees an annual 
    certification--
            ``(A) indicating whether--
                ``(i) all audits issued by the Inspector General of the 
            Department of Justice under paragraph (1) have been 
            completed and reviewed by the appropriate Assistant 
            Attorney General or Director;
                ``(ii) all mandatory exclusions required under 
            paragraph (1)(C) have been issued; and
                ``(iii) all reimbursements required under paragraph 
            (1)(E) have been made; and
            ``(B) that includes a list of any grant recipients excluded 
        under paragraph (1) from the previous year.
    ``(c) Preventing Duplicative Grants.--
        ``(1) In general.--Before the Attorney General awards a grant 
    to an applicant under this part, the Attorney General shall compare 
    potential grant awards with other grants awarded under this part by 
    the Attorney General to determine if duplicate grant awards are 
    awarded for the same purpose.
        ``(2) Report.--If the Attorney General awards duplicate grants 
    under this part to the same applicant for the same purpose, the 
    Attorney General shall submit to the applicable committees a report 
    that includes--
            ``(A) a list of all duplicate grants awarded under this 
        part, including the total dollar amount of any duplicate grants 
        awarded; and
            ``(B) the reason the Attorney General awarded the duplicate 
        grants.''.
    (b) Evaluation of Performance of Department of Justice Programs.--
        (1) Evaluation of justice department comprehensive opioid abuse 
    grant program.--Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment 
    of this Act, the Attorney General shall complete an evaluation of 
    the effectiveness of the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program 
    under part LL of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe 
    Streets Act of 1968, as added by section 201, administered by the 
    Department of Justice based upon the information reported under 
    paragraph (4).
        (2) Interim evaluation.--Not later than 3 years after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall complete an 
    interim evaluation assessing the nature and extent of the incidence 
    of opioid abuse and illegal opioid distribution in the United 
    States.
        (3) Metrics and outcomes for evaluation.--Not later than 180 
    days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General 
    shall identify outcomes that are to be achieved by activities 
    funded by the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program and the 
    metrics by which the achievement of such outcomes shall be 
    determined.
        (4) Metrics data collection.--The Attorney General shall 
    require grantees under the Comprehensive Opioid Abuse Grant Program 
    (and those receiving subawards under section 3021(b) of part LL of 
    title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, 
    as added by section 201) to collect and annually report to the 
    Department of Justice data based upon the metrics identified under 
    paragraph (3).
        (5) Publication of data and findings.--
            (A) Publication of outcomes and metrics.--The Attorney 
        General shall, not later than 30 days after completion of the 
        requirement under paragraph (3), publish the outcomes and 
        metrics identified under that paragraph.
            (B) Publication of evaluation.--In the case of the interim 
        evaluation under paragraph (2), and the final evaluation under 
        paragraph (1), the entity conducting the evaluation shall, not 
        later than 90 days after such an evaluation is completed, 
        publish the results of such evaluation and issue a report on 
        such evaluation to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        Senate. Such report shall also be published along with the data 
        used to make such evaluation.
        (6) Independent evaluation.--For purposes of paragraphs (1), 
    (2), and (3), the Attorney General shall--
            (A) enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of 
        Sciences; or
            (B) enter into a contract or cooperative agreement with an 
        entity that is not an agency of the Federal Government, and is 
        qualified to conduct and evaluate research pertaining to opioid 
        use and abuse, and draw conclusions about overall opioid use 
        and abuse on the basis of that research.
    (c) Department of Health and Human Services Grant Accountability.--
        (1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Applicable committees.--The term ``applicable 
        committees'' means--
                (i) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and 
            Pensions of the Senate; and
                (ii) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House 
            of Representatives.
            (B) Covered grant.--The term ``covered grant'' means a 
        grant awarded by the Secretary under a program established 
        under this Act (or an amendment made by this Act, other than 
        sections 703 through 707), including any grant administered by 
        the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
        Services Administration under section 103.
            (C) Grantee.--The term ``grantee'' means the recipient of a 
        covered grant.
            (D) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services.
        (2) Accountability measures.--Each covered grant shall be 
    subject to the following accountability requirements:
            (A) Effectiveness report.--The Secretary shall require 
        grantees to report on the effectiveness of the activities 
        carried out with amounts made available to carry out the 
        program under which the covered grant is awarded, including the 
        number of persons served by such grant, if applicable, the 
        number of persons seeking services who could not be served by 
        such grant, and such other information as the Secretary may 
        prescribe.
            (B) Report on prevention of fraud, waste, and abuse.--
                (i) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
            of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in 
            coordination with the Inspector General of the Department 
            of Health and Human Services, shall submit to the 
            applicable committees a report on the policies and 
            procedures the Department has in place to prevent waste, 
            fraud, and abuse in the administration of covered grants.
                (ii) Contents.--The policies and procedures referred to 
            in clause (i) shall include policies and procedures that 
            are designed to--

                    (I) prevent grantees from utilizing funds awarded 
                through a covered grant for unauthorized expenditures 
                or otherwise unallowable costs; and
                    (II) ensure grantees will not receive unwarranted 
                duplicate grants for the same purpose.

            (C) Conference expenditures.--
                (i) In general.--No amounts made available to the 
            Secretary under this Act (or in a provision of law amended 
            by this Act, other than sections 703 through 707) may be 
            used by the Secretary, or by any individual or entity 
            awarded discretionary funds through a cooperative agreement 
            under a program established under this Act (or in a 
            provision of law amended by this Act), to host or support 
            any expenditure for conferences that uses more than $20,000 
            in funds made available by the Secretary, unless the head 
            of the relevant operating division or program office 
            provides prior written authorization that the funds may be 
            expended to host or support the conference. Such written 
            authorization shall include a written estimate of all costs 
            associated with the conference, including the cost of all 
            food, beverages, audio-visual equipment, honoraria for 
            speakers, and entertainment.
                (ii) Report.--The Secretary (or the Secretary's 
            designee) shall submit to the applicable committees an 
            annual report on all conference expenditures approved by 
            the Secretary under this subparagraph.
    (d) Evaluation of Performance of Department of Health and Human 
Services Programs.--
        (1) Evaluations.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, except as otherwise provided in this 
        section, the Secretary of Health and Human Services (in this 
        subsection referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall complete an 
        evaluation of any program administered by the Secretary 
        included in this Act (or an amendment made by this Act, 
        excluding sections 703 through 707), including any grant 
        administered by the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and 
        Mental Health Services Administration under section 103, that 
        provides grants for the primary purpose of providing assistance 
        in addressing problems pertaining to opioid abuse based upon 
        the outcomes and metrics identified under paragraph (2).
            (B) Publication.--With respect to each evaluation completed 
        under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall, not later than 90 
        days after the date on which such evaluation is completed, 
        publish the results of such evaluation and issue a report on 
        such evaluation to the appropriate committees. Such report 
        shall also be published along with the data used to make such 
        evaluation.
        (2) Metrics and outcomes.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall identify--
                (i) outcomes that are to be achieved by activities 
            funded by the programs described in paragraph (1)(A); and
                (ii) the metrics by which the achievement of such 
            outcomes shall be determined.
            (B) Publication.--The Secretary shall, not later than 30 
        days after completion of the requirement under subparagraph 
        (A), publish the outcomes and metrics identified under such 
        subparagraph.
        (3) Metrics data collection.--The Secretary shall require 
    grantees under the programs described in paragraph (1)(A) to 
    collect, and annually report to the Secretary, data based upon the 
    metrics identified under paragraph (2)(A).
        (4) Independent evaluation.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall--
            (A) enter into an arrangement with the National Academy of 
        Sciences; or
            (B) enter into a contract or cooperative agreement with an 
        entity that--
                (i) is not an agency of the Federal Government; and
                (ii) is qualified to conduct and evaluate research 
            pertaining to opioid use and abuse and draw conclusions 
            about overall opioid use and abuse on the basis of that 
            research.
        (5) Exception.--If a program described in paragraph (1)(A) is 
    subject to an evaluation similar to the evaluation required under 
    such paragraph pursuant to another provision of Federal law, the 
    Secretary may opt not to conduct an evaluation under such paragraph 
    with respect to such program.
    (e) Additional Report.--In the case of a report submitted under 
subsection (c) to the applicable committees, if such report pertains to 
a grant under section 103, that report shall also be submitted, in the 
same manner and at the same time, to the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives and to the Committee 
on the Judiciary of the Senate.
    (f) No Additional Funds Authorized.--No additional funds are 
authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section.
    SEC. 702. PARTIAL FILLS OF SCHEDULE II CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
    (a) In General.--Section 309 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
U.S.C. 829) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Partial Fills of Schedule II Controlled Substances.--
        ``(1) Partial fills.--A prescription for a controlled substance 
    in schedule II may be partially filled if--
            ``(A) it is not prohibited by State law;
            ``(B) the prescription is written and filled in accordance 
        with this title, regulations prescribed by the Attorney 
        General, and State law;
            ``(C) the partial fill is requested by the patient or the 
        practitioner that wrote the prescription; and
            ``(D) the total quantity dispensed in all partial fillings 
        does not exceed the total quantity prescribed.
        ``(2) Remaining portions.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        remaining portions of a partially filled prescription for a 
        controlled substance in schedule II--
                ``(i) may be filled; and
                ``(ii) shall be filled not later than 30 days after the 
            date on which the prescription is written.
            ``(B) Emergency situations.--In emergency situations, as 
        described in subsection (a), the remaining portions of a 
        partially filled prescription for a controlled substance in 
        schedule II--
                ``(i) may be filled; and
                ``(ii) shall be filled not later than 72 hours after 
            the prescription is issued.
        ``(3) Currently lawful partial fills.--Notwithstanding 
    paragraph (1) or (2), in any circumstance in which, as of the day 
    before the date of enactment of this subsection, a prescription for 
    a controlled substance in schedule II may be lawfully partially 
    filled, the Attorney General may allow such a prescription to be 
    partially filled.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect the authority of the Attorney General to allow a 
prescription for a controlled substance in schedule III, IV, or V of 
section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 812(c)) to 
be partially filled.
    SEC. 703. GOOD SAMARITAN ASSESSMENT.
    (a) Finding.--The Congress finds that the executive branch, 
including the Office of National Drug Control Policy, has a policy 
focus on preventing and addressing prescription drug misuse and heroin 
use, and has worked with States and municipalities to enact Good 
Samaritan laws that would protect caregivers, law enforcement 
personnel, and first responders who administer opioid overdose reversal 
drugs or devices.
    (b) GAO Study on Good Samaritan Laws Pertaining to Treatment of 
Opioid Overdoses.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
submit to the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
Representatives, the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of 
the House of Representatives, the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
Senate, and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
of the Senate a report on--
        (1) the extent to which the Director of National Drug Control 
    Policy has reviewed Good Samaritan laws, and any findings from such 
    a review, including findings related to the potential effects of 
    such laws, if available;
        (2) efforts by the Director to encourage the enactment of Good 
    Samaritan laws; and
        (3) a compilation of Good Samaritan laws in effect in the 
    States, the territories, and the District of Columbia.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section--
        (1) the term ``Good Samaritan law'' means a law of a State or 
    unit of local government that exempts from criminal or civil 
    liability any individual who administers an opioid overdose 
    reversal drug or device, or who contacts emergency services 
    providers in response to an overdose; and
        (2) the term ``opioid'' means any drug, including heroin, 
    having an addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability 
    similar to morphine or being capable of conversion into a drug 
    having such addiction-forming or addiction-sustaining liability.
    SEC. 704. PROGRAMS TO PREVENT PRESCRIPTION DRUG ABUSE UNDER 
      MEDICARE PARTS C AND D.
    (a) Drug Management Program for At-Risk Beneficiaries.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1860D-4(c) of the Social Security Act 
    (42 U.S.C. 1395w-10(c)) is amended by adding at the end the 
    following:
        ``(5) Drug management program for at-risk beneficiaries.--
            ``(A) Authority to establish.--A PDP sponsor may establish 
        a drug management program for at-risk beneficiaries under 
        which, subject to subparagraph (B), the PDP sponsor may, in the 
        case of an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse who 
        is an enrollee in a prescription drug plan of such PDP sponsor, 
        limit such beneficiary's access to coverage for frequently 
        abused drugs under such plan to frequently abused drugs that 
        are prescribed for such beneficiary by one or more prescribers 
        selected under subparagraph (D), and dispensed for such 
        beneficiary by one or more pharmacies selected under such 
        subparagraph.
            ``(B) Requirement for notices.--
                ``(i) In general.--A PDP sponsor may not limit the 
            access of an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug 
            abuse to coverage for frequently abused drugs under a 
            prescription drug plan until such sponsor--

                    ``(I) provides to the beneficiary an initial notice 
                described in clause (ii) and a second notice described 
                in clause (iii); and
                    ``(II) verifies with the providers of the 
                beneficiary that the beneficiary is an at-risk 
                beneficiary for prescription drug abuse.

                ``(ii) Initial notice.--An initial notice described in 
            this clause is a notice that provides to the beneficiary--

                    ``(I) notice that the PDP sponsor has identified 
                the beneficiary as potentially being an at-risk 
                beneficiary for prescription drug abuse;
                    ``(II) information describing all State and Federal 
                public health resources that are designed to address 
                prescription drug abuse to which the beneficiary has 
                access, including mental health services and other 
                counseling services;
                    ``(III) notice of, and information about, the right 
                of the beneficiary to appeal such identification under 
                subsection (h) and the option of an automatic 
                escalation to external review;
                    ``(IV) a request for the beneficiary to submit to 
                the PDP sponsor preferences for which prescribers and 
                pharmacies the beneficiary would prefer the PDP sponsor 
                to select under subparagraph (D) in the case that the 
                beneficiary is identified as an at-risk beneficiary for 
                prescription drug abuse as described in clause 
                (iii)(I);
                    ``(V) an explanation of the meaning and 
                consequences of the identification of the beneficiary 
                as potentially being an at-risk beneficiary for 
                prescription drug abuse, including an explanation of 
                the drug management program established by the PDP 
                sponsor pursuant to subparagraph (A);
                    ``(VI) clear instructions that explain how the 
                beneficiary can contact the PDP sponsor in order to 
                submit to the PDP sponsor the preferences described in 
                subclause (IV) and any other communications relating to 
                the drug management program for at-risk beneficiaries 
                established by the PDP sponsor; and
                    ``(VII) contact information for other organizations 
                that can provide the beneficiary with assistance 
                regarding such drug management program (similar to the 
                information provided by the Secretary in other 
                standardized notices provided to part D eligible 
                individuals enrolled in prescription drug plans under 
                this part).

                ``(iii) Second notice.--A second notice described in 
            this clause is a notice that provides to the beneficiary 
            notice--

                    ``(I) that the PDP sponsor has identified the 
                beneficiary as an at-risk beneficiary for prescription 
                drug abuse;
                    ``(II) that such beneficiary is subject to the 
                requirements of the drug management program for at-risk 
                beneficiaries established by such PDP sponsor for such 
                plan;
                    ``(III) of the prescriber (or prescribers) and 
                pharmacy (or pharmacies) selected for such individual 
                under subparagraph (D);
                    ``(IV) of, and information about, the beneficiary's 
                right to appeal such identification under subsection 
                (h) and the option of an automatic escalation to 
                external review;
                    ``(V) that the beneficiary can, in the case that 
                the beneficiary has not previously submitted to the PDP 
                sponsor preferences for which prescribers and 
                pharmacies the beneficiary would prefer the PDP sponsor 
                select under subparagraph (D), submit such preferences 
                to the PDP sponsor; and
                    ``(VI) that includes clear instructions that 
                explain how the beneficiary can contact the PDP 
                sponsor.

                ``(iv) Timing of notices.--

                    ``(I) In general.--Subject to subclause (II), a 
                second notice described in clause (iii) shall be 
                provided to the beneficiary on a date that is not less 
                than 30 days after an initial notice described in 
                clause (ii) is provided to the beneficiary.
                    ``(II) Exception.--In the case that the PDP 
                sponsor, in conjunction with the Secretary, determines 
                that concerns identified through rulemaking by the 
                Secretary regarding the health or safety of the 
                beneficiary or regarding significant drug diversion 
                activities require the PDP sponsor to provide a second 
                notice described in clause (iii) to the beneficiary on 
                a date that is earlier than the date described in 
                subclause (I), the PDP sponsor may provide such second 
                notice on such earlier date.

            ``(C) At-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse.--
                ``(i) In general.--For purposes of this paragraph, the 
            term `at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse' 
            means a part D eligible individual who is not an exempted 
            individual described in clause (ii) and--

                    ``(I) who is identified as such an at-risk 
                beneficiary through the use of clinical guidelines that 
                indicate misuse or abuse of prescription drugs 
                described in subparagraph (G) and that are developed by 
                the Secretary in consultation with PDP sponsors and 
                other stakeholders, including individuals entitled to 
                benefits under part A or enrolled under part B, 
                advocacy groups representing such individuals, 
                physicians, pharmacists, and other clinicians, retail 
                pharmacies, plan sponsors, entities delegated by plan 
                sponsors, and biopharmaceutical manufacturers; or
                    ``(II) with respect to whom the PDP sponsor of a 
                prescription drug plan, upon enrolling such individual 
                in such plan, received notice from the Secretary that 
                such individual was identified under this paragraph to 
                be an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse 
                under the prescription drug plan in which such 
                individual was most recently previously enrolled and 
                such identification has not been terminated under 
                subparagraph (F).

                ``(ii) Exempted individual described.--An exempted 
            individual described in this clause is an individual who--

                    ``(I) receives hospice care under this title;
                    ``(II) is a resident of a long-term care facility, 
                of a facility described in section 1905(d), or of 
                another facility for which frequently abused drugs are 
                dispensed for residents through a contract with a 
                single pharmacy; or
                    ``(III) the Secretary elects to treat as an 
                exempted individual for purposes of clause (i).

                ``(iii) Program size.--The Secretary shall establish 
            policies, including the guidelines developed under clause 
            (i)(I) and the exemptions under clause (ii)(III), to ensure 
            that the population of enrollees in a drug management 
            program for at-risk beneficiaries operated by a 
            prescription drug plan can be effectively managed by such 
            plans.
                ``(iv) Clinical contact.--With respect to each at-risk 
            beneficiary for prescription drug abuse enrolled in a 
            prescription drug plan offered by a PDP sponsor, the PDP 
            sponsor shall contact the beneficiary's providers who have 
            prescribed frequently abused drugs regarding whether 
            prescribed medications are appropriate for such 
            beneficiary's medical conditions.
            ``(D) Selection of prescribers and pharmacies.--
                ``(i) In general.--With respect to each at-risk 
            beneficiary for prescription drug abuse enrolled in a 
            prescription drug plan offered by such sponsor, a PDP 
            sponsor shall, based on the preferences submitted to the 
            PDP sponsor by the beneficiary pursuant to clauses (ii)(IV) 
            and (iii)(V) of subparagraph (B) (except as otherwise 
            provided in this subparagraph) select--

                    ``(I) one, or, if the PDP sponsor reasonably 
                determines it necessary to provide the beneficiary with 
                reasonable access under clause (ii), more than one, 
                individual who is authorized to prescribe frequently 
                abused drugs (referred to in this paragraph as a 
                `prescriber') who may write prescriptions for such 
                drugs for such beneficiary; and
                    ``(II) one, or, if the PDP sponsor reasonably 
                determines it necessary to provide the beneficiary with 
                reasonable access under clause (ii), more than one, 
                pharmacy that may dispense such drugs to such 
                beneficiary.

            For purposes of subclause (II), in the case of a pharmacy 
            that has multiple locations that share real-time electronic 
            data, all such locations of the pharmacy shall collectively 
            be treated as one pharmacy.
                ``(ii) Reasonable access.--In making the selections 
            under this subparagraph--

                    ``(I) a PDP sponsor shall ensure that the 
                beneficiary continues to have reasonable access to 
                frequently abused drugs (as defined in subparagraph 
                (G)), taking into account geographic location, 
                beneficiary preference, impact on costsharing, and 
                reasonable travel time; and
                    ``(II) a PDP sponsor shall ensure such access 
                (including access to prescribers and pharmacies with 
                respect to frequently abused drugs) in the case of 
                individuals with multiple residences, in the case of 
                natural disasters and similar situations, and in the 
                case of the provision of emergency services.

                ``(iii) Beneficiary preferences.--If an at-risk 
            beneficiary for prescription drug abuse submits preferences 
            for which in-network prescribers and pharmacies the 
            beneficiary would prefer the PDP sponsor select in response 
            to a notice under subparagraph (B), the PDP sponsor shall--

                    ``(I) review such preferences;
                    ``(II) select or change the selection of 
                prescribers and pharmacies for the beneficiary based on 
                such preferences; and
                    ``(III) inform the beneficiary of such selection or 
                change of selection.

                ``(iv) Exception regarding beneficiary preferences.--In 
            the case that the PDP sponsor determines that a change to 
            the selection of prescriber or pharmacy under clause 
            (iii)(II) by the PDP sponsor is contributing or would 
            contribute to prescription drug abuse or drug diversion by 
            the beneficiary, the PDP sponsor may change the selection 
            of prescriber or pharmacy for the beneficiary without 
            regard to the preferences of the beneficiary described in 
            clause (iii). If the PDP sponsor changes the selection 
            pursuant to the preceding sentence, the PDP sponsor shall 
            provide the beneficiary with--

                    ``(I) at least 30 days written notice of the change 
                of selection; and
                    ``(II) a rationale for the change.

                ``(v) Confirmation.--Before selecting a prescriber or 
            pharmacy under this subparagraph, a PDP sponsor must notify 
            the prescriber and pharmacy that the beneficiary involved 
            has been identified for inclusion in the drug management 
            program for at-risk beneficiaries and that the prescriber 
            and pharmacy has been selected as the beneficiary's 
            designated prescriber and pharmacy.
            ``(E) Terminations and appeals.--The identification of an 
        individual as an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug 
        abuse under this paragraph, a coverage determination made under 
        a drug management program for at-risk beneficiaries, the 
        selection of prescriber or pharmacy under subparagraph (D), and 
        information to be shared under subparagraph (I), with respect 
        to such individual, shall be subject to reconsideration and 
        appeal under subsection (h) and the option of an automatic 
        escalation to external review to the extent provided by the 
        Secretary.
            ``(F) Termination of identification.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Secretary shall develop 
            standards for the termination of identification of an 
            individual as an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug 
            abuse under this paragraph. Under such standards such 
            identification shall terminate as of the earlier of--

                    ``(I) the date the individual demonstrates that the 
                individual is no longer likely, in the absence of the 
                restrictions under this paragraph, to be an at-risk 
                beneficiary for prescription drug abuse described in 
                subparagraph (C)(i); and
                    ``(II) the end of such maximum period of 
                identification as the Secretary may specify.

                ``(ii) Rule of construction.--Nothing in clause (i) 
            shall be construed as preventing a plan from identifying an 
            individual as an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug 
            abuse under subparagraph (C)(i) after such termination on 
            the basis of additional information on drug use occurring 
            after the date of notice of such termination.
            ``(G) Frequently abused drug.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `frequently abused drug' means a drug that 
        is a controlled substance that the Secretary determines to be 
        frequently abused or diverted.
            ``(H) Data disclosure.--
                ``(i) Data on decision to impose limitation.--In the 
            case of an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse 
            (or an individual who is a potentially at-risk beneficiary 
            for prescription drug abuse) whose access to coverage for 
            frequently abused drugs under a prescription drug plan has 
            been limited by a PDP sponsor under this paragraph, the 
            Secretary shall establish rules and procedures to require 
            the PDP sponsor to disclose data, including any necessary 
            individually identifiable health information, in a form and 
            manner specified by the Secretary, about the decision to 
            impose such limitations and the limitations imposed by the 
            sponsor under this part.
                ``(ii) Data to reduce fraud, abuse, and waste.--The 
            Secretary shall establish rules and procedures to require 
            PDP sponsors operating a drug management program for at-
            risk beneficiaries under this paragraph to provide the 
            Secretary with such data as the Secretary determines 
            appropriate for purposes of identifying patterns of 
            prescription drug utilization for plan enrollees that are 
            outside normal patterns and that may indicate fraudulent, 
            medically unnecessary, or unsafe use.
            ``(I) Sharing of information for subsequent plan 
        enrollments.--The Secretary shall establish procedures under 
        which PDP sponsors who offer prescription drug plans shall 
        share information with respect to individuals who are at-risk 
        beneficiaries for prescription drug abuse (or individuals who 
        are potentially at-risk beneficiaries for prescription drug 
        abuse) and enrolled in a prescription drug plan and who 
        subsequently disenroll from such plan and enroll in another 
        prescription drug plan offered by another PDP sponsor.
            ``(J) Privacy issues.--Prior to the implementation of the 
        rules and procedures under this paragraph, the Secretary shall 
        clarify privacy requirements, including requirements under the 
        regulations promulgated pursuant to section 264(c) of the 
        Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 
        U.S.C. 1320d-2 note), related to the sharing of data under 
        subparagraphs (H) and (I) by PDP sponsors. Such clarification 
        shall provide that the sharing of such data shall be considered 
        to be protected health information in accordance with the 
        requirements of the regulations promulgated pursuant to such 
        section 264(c).
            ``(K) Education.--The Secretary shall provide education to 
        enrollees in prescription drug plans of PDP sponsors and 
        providers regarding the drug management program for at-risk 
        beneficiaries described in this paragraph, including 
        education--
                ``(i) provided by Medicare administrative contractors 
            through the improper payment outreach and education program 
            described in section 1874A(h); and
                ``(ii) through current education efforts (such as State 
            health insurance assistance programs described in 
            subsection (a)(1)(A) of section 119 of the Medicare 
            Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008 (42 
            U.S.C. 1395b-3 note)) and materials directed toward such 
            enrollees.
            ``(L) Application under ma-pd plans.--Pursuant to section 
        1860D-21(c)(1), the provisions of this paragraph apply under 
        part D to MA organizations offering MA-PD plans to MA eligible 
        individuals in the same manner as such provisions apply under 
        this part to a PDP sponsor offering a prescription drug plan to 
        a part D eligible individual.
            ``(M) CMS compliance review.--The Secretary shall ensure 
        that existing plan sponsor compliance reviews and audit 
        processes include the drug management programs for at-risk 
        beneficiaries under this paragraph, including appeals processes 
        under such programs.''.
        (2) Information for consumers.--Section 1860D-4(a)(1)(B) of the 
    Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-104(a)(1)(B)) is amended by 
    adding at the end the following:
                ``(v) The drug management program for at-risk 
            beneficiaries under subsection (c)(5).''.
        (3) Dual eligibles.--Section 1860D-1(b)(3)(D) of the Social 
    Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-101(b)(3)(D)) is amended by inserting 
    ``, subject to such limits as the Secretary may establish for 
    individuals identified pursuant to section 1860D-4(c)(5)'' after 
    ``the Secretary''.
    (b) Utilization Management Programs.--Section 1860D-4(c) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-104(c)), as amended by subsection 
(a)(1), is further amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after subparagraph (D) the 
    following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) A utilization management tool to prevent drug abuse 
        (as described in paragraph (6)(A)).''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) Utilization management tool to prevent drug abuse.--
            ``(A) In general.--A tool described in this paragraph is 
        any of the following:
                ``(i) A utilization tool designed to prevent the abuse 
            of frequently abused drugs by individuals and to prevent 
            the diversion of such drugs at pharmacies.
                ``(ii) Retrospective utilization review to identify--

                    ``(I) individuals that receive frequently abused 
                drugs at a frequency or in amounts that are not 
                clinically appropriate; and
                    ``(II) providers of services or suppliers that may 
                facilitate the abuse or diversion of frequently abused 
                drugs by beneficiaries.

                ``(iii) Consultation with the contractor described in 
            subparagraph (B) to verify if an individual enrolling in a 
            prescription drug plan offered by a PDP sponsor has been 
            previously identified by another PDP sponsor as an 
            individual described in clause (ii)(I).
            ``(B) Reporting.--A PDP sponsor offering a prescription 
        drug plan (and an MA organization offering an MA-PD plan) in a 
        State shall submit to the Secretary and the Medicare drug 
        integrity contractor with which the Secretary has entered into 
        a contract under section 1893 with respect to such State a 
        report, on a monthly basis, containing information on--
                ``(i) any provider of services or supplier described in 
            subparagraph (A)(ii)(II) that is identified by such plan 
            sponsor (or organization) during the 30-day period before 
            such report is submitted; and
                ``(ii) the name and prescription records of individuals 
            described in paragraph (5)(C).
            ``(C) CMS compliance review.--The Secretary shall ensure 
        that plan sponsor compliance reviews and program audits 
        biennially include a certification that utilization management 
        tools under this paragraph are in compliance with the 
        requirements for such tools.''.
    (c) Expanding Activities of Medicare Drug Integrity Contractors 
(MEDICs).--
        (1) In general.--Section 1893 of the Social Security Act (42 
    U.S.C. 1395ddd) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(j) Expanding Activities of Medicare Drug Integrity Contractors 
(MEDICs).--
        ``(1) Access to information.--Under contracts entered into 
    under this section with Medicare drug integrity contractors 
    (including any successor entity to a Medicare drug integrity 
    contractor), the Secretary shall authorize such contractors to 
    directly accept prescription and necessary medical records from 
    entities such as pharmacies, prescription drug plans, MA-PD plans, 
    and physicians with respect to an individual in order for such 
    contractors to provide information relevant to the determination of 
    whether such individual is an at-risk beneficiary for prescription 
    drug abuse, as defined in section 1860D-4(c)(5)(C).
        ``(2) Requirement for acknowledgment of referrals.--If a PDP 
    sponsor or MA organization refers information to a contractor 
    described in paragraph (1) in order for such contractor to assist 
    in the determination described in such paragraph, the contractor 
    shall--
            ``(A) acknowledge to the sponsor or organization receipt of 
        the referral; and
            ``(B) in the case that any PDP sponsor or MA organization 
        contacts the contractor requesting to know the determination by 
        the contractor of whether or not an individual has been 
        determined to be an individual described in such paragraph, 
        shall inform such sponsor or organization of such determination 
        on a date that is not later than 15 days after the date on 
        which the sponsor or organization contacts the contractor.
        ``(3) Making data available to other entities.--
            ``(A) In general.--For purposes of carrying out this 
        subsection, subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall 
        authorize MEDICs to respond to requests for information from 
        PDP sponsors and MA organizations, State prescription drug 
        monitoring programs, and other entities delegated by such 
        sponsors or organizations using available programs and systems 
        in the effort to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse.
            ``(B) HIPAA compliant information only.--Information may 
        only be disclosed by a MEDIC under subparagraph (A) if the 
        disclosure of such information is permitted under the Federal 
        regulations (concerning the privacy of individually 
        identifiable health information) promulgated under section 
        264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
        Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note).''.
        (2) OIG study and report on effectiveness of medics.--
            (A) Study.--The Inspector General of the Department of 
        Health and Human Services shall conduct a study on the 
        effectiveness of Medicare drug integrity contractors with which 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services has entered into a 
        contract under section 1893 of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1395ddd) in identifying, combating, and preventing fraud 
        under the Medicare program, including under the authority 
        provided under section 1893(j) of the Social Security Act, 
        added by paragraph (1).
            (B) Report.--Not later than 24 months after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Inspector General shall submit to 
        Congress a report on the study conducted under subparagraph 
        (A). Such report shall include such recommendations for 
        improvements in the effectiveness of such contractors as the 
        Inspector General determines appropriate.
    (d) Treatment of Certain Complaints for Purposes of Quality or 
Performance Assessment.--Section 1860D-42 of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395w-152) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Treatment of Certain Complaints for Purposes of Quality or 
Performance Assessment.--In conducting a quality or performance 
assessment of a PDP sponsor, the Secretary shall develop or utilize 
existing screening methods for reviewing and considering complaints 
that are received from enrollees in a prescription drug plan offered by 
such PDP sponsor and that are complaints regarding the lack of access 
by the individual to prescription drugs due to a drug management 
program for at-risk beneficiaries.''.
    (e) Sense of Congress Regarding Use of Technology Tools To Combat 
Fraud.--It is the sense of Congress that MA organizations and PDP 
sponsors should consider using e-prescribing and other health 
information technology tools to support combating fraud under MA-PD 
plans and prescription drug plans under parts C and D of the Medicare 
program.
    (f) Reports.--
        (1) Report by secretary on appeals process.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 12 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        jurisdiction of Congress a report on ways to improve upon the 
        appeals process for Medicare beneficiaries with respect to 
        prescription drug coverage under part D of title XVIII of the 
        Social Security Act. Such report shall include an analysis 
        comparing appeals processes under parts C and D of such title 
        XVIII.
            (B) Feedback.--In development of the report described in 
        subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
        shall solicit feedback on the current appeals process from 
        stakeholders, such as beneficiaries, consumer advocates, plan 
        sponsors, pharmacy benefit managers, pharmacists, providers, 
        independent review entity evaluators, and pharmaceutical 
        manufacturers.
        (2) GAO study and report.--
            (A) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
        shall conduct a study on the implementation of the amendments 
        made by this section, including the effectiveness of the at-
        risk beneficiaries for prescription drug abuse drug management 
        programs authorized by section 1860D-4(c)(5) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-10(c)(5)), as added by subsection 
        (a)(1). Such study shall include an analysis of--
                (i) the impediments, if any, that impair the ability of 
            individuals described in subparagraph (C) of such section 
            1860D-4(c)(5) to access clinically appropriate levels of 
            prescription drugs;
                (ii) the effectiveness of the reasonable access 
            protections under subparagraph (D)(ii) of such section 
            1860D-4(c)(5), including the impact on beneficiary access 
            and health;
                (iii) the types of--

                    (I) individuals who, in the implementation of such 
                section, are determined to be individuals described in 
                such subparagraph (C); and
                    (II) prescribers and pharmacies that are selected 
                under subparagraph (D) of such section; and

                (iv) other areas determined appropriate by the 
            Comptroller General.
            (B) Report.--Not later than July 1, 2019, the Comptroller 
        General of the United States shall submit to the appropriate 
        committees of jurisdiction of Congress a report on the study 
        conducted under subparagraph (A), together with recommendations 
        for such legislation and administrative action as the 
        Comptroller General determines to be appropriate.
    (g) Effective Date; Rulemaking.--
        (1) In general.--The amendments made by this section shall 
    apply to prescription drug plans (and MA-PD plans) for plan years 
    beginning on or after January 1, 2019.
        (2) Stakeholder meetings prior to effective date.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2017, the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services shall convene 
        stakeholders, including individuals entitled to benefits under 
        part A of title XVIII of the Social Security Act or enrolled 
        under part B of such title, advocacy groups representing such 
        individuals, physicians, pharmacists, and other clinicians, 
        retail pharmacies, plan sponsors, entities delegated by plan 
        sponsors, and biopharmaceutical manufacturers for input 
        regarding the topics described in subparagraph (B). The input 
        described in the preceding sentence shall be provided to the 
        Secretary in sufficient time in order for the Secretary to take 
        such input into account in promulgating the regulations 
        pursuant to paragraph (3).
            (B) Topics described.--The topics described in this 
        subparagraph are the topics of--
                (i) the anticipated impact of drug management programs 
            for at-risk beneficiaries under paragraph (5) of section 
            1860D-4(c) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-
            104(c)) on cost-sharing and ensuring accessibility to 
            prescription drugs for enrollees in prescription drug plans 
            of PDP sponsors, and enrollees in MA-PD plans, who are at-
            risk beneficiaries for prescription drug abuse (as defined 
            in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph);
                (ii) the use of an expedited appeals process under 
            which such an enrollee may appeal an identification of such 
            enrollee as an at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug 
            abuse under such paragraph (similar to the processes 
            established under the Medicare Advantage program under part 
            C of title XVIII of the Social Security Act that allow an 
            automatic escalation to external review of claims submitted 
            under such part);
                (iii) the types of enrollees that should be treated as 
            exempted individuals, as described in subparagraph (C)(ii) 
            of such paragraph;
                (iv) the manner in which terms and definitions in such 
            paragraph should be applied, such as the use of clinical 
            appropriateness in determining whether an enrollee is an 
            at-risk beneficiary for prescription drug abuse as defined 
            in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph;
                (v) the information to be included in the notices 
            described in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph and the 
            standardization of such notices;
                (vi) with respect to a PDP sponsor (or Medicare 
            Advantage organization) that establishes a drug management 
            program for at-risk beneficiaries under such paragraph, the 
            responsibilities of such PDP sponsor (or organization) with 
            respect to the implementation of such program;
                (vii) notices for plan enrollees at the point of sale 
            that would explain why an at-risk beneficiary has been 
            prohibited from receiving a prescription at a location 
            outside of the designated pharmacy;
                (viii) evidence-based prescribing guidelines for 
            opiates; and
                (ix) the sharing of claims data under parts A and B of 
            title XVIII of the Social Security Act with PDP sponsors.
        (3) Rulemaking.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
    shall, taking into account the input gathered pursuant to paragraph 
    (2)(A) and after providing notice and an opportunity to comment, 
    promulgate regulations to carry out the provisions of, and 
    amendments made by this section.
    (h) Deposit of Savings Into Medicare Improvement Fund.--Section 
1898(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395iii(b)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``during and after fiscal year 2020, $0'' and 
inserting ``during and after fiscal year 2021, $140,000,000''.
    SEC. 705. EXCLUDING ABUSE-DETERRENT FORMULATIONS OF PRESCRIPTION 
      DRUGS FROM THE MEDICAID ADDITIONAL REBATE REQUIREMENT FOR NEW 
      FORMULATIONS OF PRESCRIPTION DRUGS.
    (a) In General.--The last sentence of section 1927(c)(2)(C) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(c)(2)(C)) is amended by 
inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, but does not 
include an abuse-deterrent formulation of the drug (as determined by 
the Secretary), regardless of whether such abuse-deterrent formulation 
is an extended release formulation''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to drugs that are paid for by a State in calendar quarters 
beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 706. LIMITING DISCLOSURE OF PREDICTIVE MODELING AND OTHER 
      ANALYTICS TECHNOLOGIES TO IDENTIFY AND PREVENT WASTE, FRAUD, AND 
      ABUSE.
    (a) In General.--Title XI of the Social Security Act is amended by 
inserting after section 1128J (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7k) the following new 
section:
``SEC. 1128K. DISCLOSURE OF PREDICTIVE MODELING AND OTHER ANALYTICS 
TECHNOLOGIES TO IDENTIFY AND PREVENT WASTE, FRAUD, AND ABUSE.
    ``(a) Reference to Predictive Modeling Technologies Requirements.--
For provisions relating to the use of predictive modeling and other 
analytics technologies to identify and prevent waste, fraud, and abuse 
with respect to the Medicare program under title XVIII, the Medicaid 
program under title XIX, and the Children's Health Insurance Program 
under title XXI, see section 4241 of the Small Business Jobs Act of 
2010 (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7m).
    ``(b) Limiting Disclosure of Predictive Modeling Technologies.--In 
implementing such provisions under such section 4241 with respect to 
covered algorithms (as defined in subsection (c)), the following shall 
apply:
        ``(1) Nonapplication of foia.--The covered algorithms used or 
    developed for purposes of such section 4241 (including by the 
    Secretary or a State (or an entity operating under a contract with 
    a State)) shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552(b)(3) 
    of title 5, United States Code.
        ``(2) Limitation with respect to use and disclosure of 
    information by state agencies.--
            ``(A) In general.--A State agency may not use or disclose 
        covered algorithms used or developed for purposes of such 
        section 4241 except for purposes of administering the State 
        plan (or a waiver of the plan) under the Medicaid program under 
        title XIX or the State child health plan (or a waiver of the 
        plan) under the Children's Health Insurance Program under title 
        XXI, including by enabling an entity operating under a contract 
        with a State to assist the State to identify or prevent waste, 
        fraud, and abuse with respect to such programs.
            ``(B) Information security.--A State agency shall have in 
        effect data security and control policies that the Secretary 
        finds adequate to ensure the security of covered algorithms 
        used or developed for purposes of such section 4241 and to 
        ensure that access to such information is restricted to 
        authorized persons for purposes of authorized uses and 
        disclosures described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Procedural requirements.--State agencies to which 
        information is disclosed pursuant to such section 4241 shall 
        adhere to uniform procedures established by the Secretary.
    ``(c) Covered Algorithm Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered algorithm'--
        ``(1) means a predictive modeling or other analytics 
    technology, as used for purposes of section 4241(a) of the Small 
    Business Jobs Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 1320a-7m(a)) to identify and 
    prevent waste, fraud, and abuse with respect to the Medicare 
    program under title XVIII, the Medicaid program under title XIX, 
    and the Children's Health Insurance Program under title XXI; and
        ``(2) includes the mathematical expressions utilized in the 
    application of such technology and the means by which such 
    technology is developed.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Medicaid state plan requirement.--Section 1902(a) of the 
    Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)) is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (80), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (81), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (81) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(82) provide that the State agency responsible for 
    administering the State plan under this title provides assurances 
    to the Secretary that the State agency is in compliance with 
    subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 1128K(b)(2).''.
        (2) State child health plan requirement.--Section 2102(a)(7) of 
    the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397bb(a)(7)) is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``, and'' at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon;
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) to ensure that the State agency involved is in 
        compliance with subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 
        1128K(b)(2).''.
    SEC. 707. MEDICAID IMPROVEMENT FUND.
    Section 1941(b)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396w-
1(b)(1)) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) In general.--There shall be available to the Fund, for 
    expenditures from the Fund for fiscal year 2021 and thereafter, 
    $5,000,000.''.
    SEC. 708. SENSE OF THE CONGRESS REGARDING TREATMENT OF SUBSTANCE 
      ABUSE EPIDEMICS.
    It is the sense of the Congress that decades of experience and 
research have demonstrated that a fiscally responsible approach to 
addressing the opioid abuse epidemic and other substance abuse 
epidemics requires treating such epidemics as a public health emergency 
emphasizing prevention, treatment, and recovery.

              TITLE VIII--KINGPIN DESIGNATION IMPROVEMENT

    SEC. 801. PROTECTION OF CLASSIFIED INFORMATION IN FEDERAL COURT 
      CHALLENGES RELATING TO DESIGNATIONS UNDER THE NARCOTICS KINGPIN 
      DESIGNATION ACT.
    Section 804 of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 
U.S.C. 1903) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Protection of Classified Information in Federal Court 
Challenges Relating to Designations.--In any judicial review of a 
determination made under this section, if the determination was based 
on classified information (as defined in section 1(a) of the Classified 
Information Procedures Act) such information may be submitted to the 
reviewing court ex parte and in camera. This subsection does not confer 
or imply any right to judicial review.''.

                TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS

    SEC. 901. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``Jason Simcakoski Memorial and 
Promise Act''.
    SEC. 902. DEFINITIONS.
    In this title:
        (1) The term ``controlled substance'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act (21 
    U.S.C. 802).
        (2) The term ``State'' means each of the several States, 
    territories, and possessions of the United States, the District of 
    Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
        (3) The term ``complementary and integrative health'' has the 
    meaning given that term, or any successor term, by the National 
    Institutes of Health.
        (4) The term ``opioid receptor antagonist'' means a drug or 
    device approved or cleared under the Federal Food, Drug, and 
    Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 301 et seq.) for emergency treatment of 
    known or suspected opioid overdose.

             Subtitle A--Opioid Therapy and Pain Management

    SEC. 911. IMPROVEMENT OF OPIOID SAFETY MEASURES BY DEPARTMENT OF 
      VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Expansion of Opioid Safety Initiative.--
        (1) Inclusion of all medical facilities.--Not later than 180 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
    Veterans Affairs shall expand the Opioid Safety Initiative of the 
    Department of Veterans Affairs to include all medical facilities of 
    the Department.
        (2) Guidance.--The Secretary shall establish guidance that each 
    health care provider of the Department of Veterans Affairs, before 
    initiating opioid therapy to treat a patient as part of the 
    comprehensive assessment conducted by the health care provider, use 
    the Opioid Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department of Veterans 
    Affairs (or any subsequent tool), which shall include information 
    from the prescription drug monitoring program of each participating 
    State as applicable, that includes the most recent information to 
    date relating to the patient that accessed such program to assess 
    the risk for adverse outcomes of opioid therapy for the patient, 
    including the concurrent use of controlled substances such as 
    benzodiazepines, as part of the comprehensive assessment conducted 
    by the health care provider.
        (3) Enhanced standards.--The Secretary shall establish enhanced 
    standards with respect to the use of routine and random urine drug 
    tests for all patients before and during opioid therapy to help 
    prevent substance abuse, dependence, and diversion, including--
            (A) that such tests occur not less frequently than once 
        each year or as otherwise determined according to treatment 
        protocols; and
            (B) that health care providers appropriately order, 
        interpret and respond to the results from such tests to tailor 
        pain therapy, safeguards, and risk management strategies to 
        each patient.
    (b) Pain Management Education and Training.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out the Opioid Safety Initiative 
    of the Department, the Secretary shall require all employees of the 
    Department responsible for prescribing opioids to receive education 
    and training described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Education and training.--Education and training described 
    in this paragraph is education and training on pain management and 
    safe opioid prescribing practices for purposes of safely and 
    effectively managing patients with chronic pain, including 
    education and training on the following:
            (A) The implementation of and full compliance with the VA/
        DOD Clinical Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid 
        Therapy for Chronic Pain, including any update to such 
        guideline.
            (B) The use of evidence-based pain management therapies and 
        complementary and integrative health services, including 
        cognitive-behavioral therapy, non-opioid alternatives, and non-
        drug methods and procedures to managing pain and related health 
        conditions including, to the extent practicable, medical 
        devices approved or cleared by the Food and Drug Administration 
        for the treatment of patients with chronic pain and related 
        health conditions.
            (C) Screening and identification of patients with substance 
        use disorder, including drug-seeking behavior, before 
        prescribing opioids, assessment of risk potential for patients 
        developing an addiction, and referral of patients to 
        appropriate addiction treatment professionals if addiction is 
        identified or strongly suspected.
            (D) Communication with patients on the potential harm 
        associated with the use of opioids and other controlled 
        substances, including the need to safely store and dispose of 
        supplies relating to the use of opioids and other controlled 
        substances.
            (E) Such other education and training as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate to ensure that veterans receive safe and 
        high-quality pain management care from the Department.
        (3) Use of existing program.--In providing education and 
    training described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall use the 
    Interdisciplinary Chronic Pain Management Training Team Program of 
    the Department (or successor program).
    (c) Pain Management Teams.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out the Opioid Safety Initiative 
    of the Department, the director of each medical facility of the 
    Department shall identify and designate a pain management team of 
    health care professionals, which may include board certified pain 
    medicine specialists, responsible for coordinating and overseeing 
    pain management therapy at such facility for patients experiencing 
    acute and chronic pain that is non-cancer related.
        (2) Establishment of protocols.--
            (A) In general.--In consultation with the Directors of each 
        Veterans Integrated Service Network, the Secretary shall 
        establish standard protocols for the designation of pain 
        management teams at each medical facility within the 
        Department.
            (B) Consultation on prescription of opioids.--Each protocol 
        established under subparagraph (A) shall ensure that any health 
        care provider without expertise in prescribing analgesics or 
        who has not completed the education and training under 
        subsection (b), including a mental health care provider, does 
        not prescribe opioids to a patient unless that health care 
        provider--
                (i) consults with a health care provider with pain 
            management expertise or who is on the pain management team 
            of the medical facility; and
                (ii) refers the patient to the pain management team for 
            any subsequent prescriptions and related therapy.
        (3) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the director of each medical facility of 
        the Department shall submit to the Under Secretary for Health 
        and the director of the Veterans Integrated Service Network in 
        which the medical facility is located a report identifying the 
        health care professionals that have been designated as members 
        of the pain management team at the medical facility pursuant to 
        paragraph (1).
            (B) Elements.--Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) 
        with respect to a medical facility of the Department shall 
        include--
                (i) a certification as to whether all members of the 
            pain management team at the medical facility have completed 
            the education and training required under subsection (b);
                (ii) a plan for the management and referral of patients 
            to such pain management team if health care providers 
            without expertise in prescribing analgesics prescribe 
            opioid medications to treat acute and chronic pain that is 
            non-cancer related; and
                (iii) a certification as to whether the medical 
            facility--

                    (I) fully complies with the stepped-care model, or 
                successor models, of pain management and other pain 
                management policies of the Department; or
                    (II) does not fully comply with such stepped-care 
                model, or successor models, of pain management and 
                other pain management policies but is carrying out a 
                corrective plan of action to ensure such full 
                compliance.

    (d) Tracking and Monitoring of Opioid Use.--
        (1) Prescription drug monitoring programs of states.--In 
    carrying out the Opioid Safety Initiative and the Opioid Therapy 
    Risk Report tool of the Department, the Secretary shall--
            (A) ensure access by health care providers of the 
        Department to information on controlled substances, including 
        opioids and benzodiazepines, prescribed to veterans who receive 
        care outside the Department through the prescription drug 
        monitoring program of each State with such a program, including 
        by seeking to enter into memoranda of understanding with States 
        to allow shared access of such information between States and 
        the Department;
            (B) include such information in the Opioid Therapy Risk 
        Report tool; and
            (C) require health care providers of the Department to 
        submit to the prescription drug monitoring program of each 
        State with such a program information on prescriptions of 
        controlled substances received by veterans in that State under 
        the laws administered by the Secretary.
        (2) Report on tracking of data on opioid use.--Not later than 
    18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
    Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives a report on the feasibility and advisability of 
    improving the Opioid Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department to 
    allow for more advanced real-time tracking of and access to data 
    on--
            (A) the key clinical indicators with respect to the 
        totality of opioid use by veterans;
            (B) concurrent prescribing by health care providers of the 
        Department of opioids in different health care settings, 
        including data on concurrent prescribing of opioids to treat 
        mental health disorders other than opioid use disorder; and
            (C) mail-order prescriptions of opioids prescribed to 
        veterans under the laws administered by the Secretary.
    (e) Availability of Opioid Receptor Antagonists.--
        (1) Increased availability and use.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall maximize the 
        availability of opioid receptor antagonists, including 
        naloxone, to veterans.
            (B) Availability, training, and distributing.--In carrying 
        out subparagraph (A), not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall--
                (i) equip each pharmacy of the Department with opioid 
            receptor antagonists to be dispensed to outpatients as 
            needed; and
                (ii) expand the Overdose Education and Naloxone 
            Distribution program of the Department to ensure that all 
            veterans in receipt of health care under laws administered 
            by the Secretary who are at risk of opioid overdose may 
            access such opioid receptor antagonists and training on the 
            proper administration of such opioid receptor antagonists.
            (C) Veterans who are at risk.--For purposes of subparagraph 
        (B), veterans who are at risk of opioid overdose include--
                (i) veterans receiving long-term opioid therapy;
                (ii) veterans receiving opioid therapy who have a 
            history of substance use disorder or prior instances of 
            overdose; and
                (iii) veterans who are at risk as determined by a 
            health care provider who is treating the veteran.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee 
    on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' 
    Affairs of the House of Representatives a report on carrying out 
    paragraph (1), including an assessment of any remaining steps to be 
    carried out by the Secretary to carry out such paragraph.
    (f) Inclusion of Certain Information and Capabilities in Opioid 
Therapy Risk Report Tool of the Department.--
        (1) Information.--The Secretary shall include in the Opioid 
    Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department--
            (A) information on the most recent time the tool was 
        accessed by a health care provider of the Department with 
        respect to each veteran; and
            (B) information on the results of the most recent urine 
        drug test for each veteran.
        (2) Capabilities.--The Secretary shall include in the Opioid 
    Therapy Risk Report tool the ability of the health care providers 
    of the Department to determine whether a health care provider of 
    the Department prescribed opioids to a veteran without checking the 
    information in the tool with respect to the veteran.
    (g) Notifications of Risk in Computerized Health Record.--The 
Secretary shall modify the computerized patient record system of the 
Department to ensure that any health care provider that accesses the 
record of a veteran, regardless of the reason the veteran seeks care 
from the health care provider, will be immediately notified whether the 
veteran--
        (1) is receiving opioid therapy and has a history of substance 
    use disorder or prior instances of overdose;
        (2) has a history of opioid abuse; or
        (3) is at risk of developing an opioid use disorder, as 
    determined by a health care provider who is treating the veteran.
    SEC. 912. STRENGTHENING OF JOINT WORKING GROUP ON PAIN MANAGEMENT 
      OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS AND THE DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that the Pain Management Working Group of the 
Health Executive Committee of the Department of Veterans Affairs-
Department of Defense Joint Executive Committee (Pain Management 
Working Group) established under section 320 of title 38, United States 
Code, includes a focus on the following:
        (1) The opioid prescribing practices of health care providers 
    of each Department.
        (2) The ability of each Department to manage acute and chronic 
    pain among individuals receiving health care from the Department, 
    including training health care providers with respect to pain 
    management.
        (3) The use by each Department of complementary and integrative 
    health in treating such individuals.
        (4) The concurrent use and practice by health care providers of 
    each Department of opioids and prescription drugs to treat mental 
    health disorders, including benzodiazepines.
        (5) The use of care transition plans by health care providers 
    of each Department to address case management issues for patients 
    receiving opioid therapy who transition between inpatient and 
    outpatient care.
        (6) The coordination in coverage of and consistent access to 
    medications prescribed for patients transitioning from receiving 
    health care from the Department of Defense to receiving health care 
    from the Department of Veterans Affairs.
        (7) The ability of each Department to properly screen, 
    identify, refer, and treat patients with substance use disorders 
    who are seeking treatment for acute and chronic pain management 
    conditions.
    (b) Coordination and Consultation.--The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs and the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the working 
group described in subsection (a)--
        (1) coordinates the activities of the working group with other 
    relevant working groups established under section 320 of title 38, 
    United States Code;
        (2) consults with other relevant Federal agencies, including 
    the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, with respect to the 
    activities of the working group; and
        (3) consults with the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
    Department of Defense with respect to the VA/DOD Clinical Practice 
    Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic Pain, or any 
    successor guideline, and reviews and provides comments before any 
    update to the guideline is released.
    (c) Clinical Practice Guidelines.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
    Secretary of Defense shall issue an update to the VA/DOD Clinical 
    Practice Guideline for Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic 
    Pain.
        (2) Matters included.--In conducting the update under paragraph 
    (1), the Pain Management Working Group, in coordination with the 
    Clinical Practice Guideline VA/DoD Management of Opioid Therapy for 
    Chronic Pain Working Group, shall work to ensure that the Clinical 
    Practical Guideline includes the following:
            (A) Enhanced guidance with respect to--
                (i) the co-administration of an opioid and other drugs, 
            including benzodiazepines, that may result in life-limiting 
            drug interactions;
                (ii) the treatment of patients with current acute 
            psychiatric instability or substance use disorder or 
            patients at risk of suicide; and
                (iii) the use of opioid therapy to treat mental health 
            disorders other than opioid use disorder.
            (B) Enhanced guidance with respect to the treatment of 
        patients with behaviors or comorbidities, such as post-
        traumatic stress disorder or other psychiatric disorders, or a 
        history of substance abuse or addiction, that requires a 
        consultation or co-management of opioid therapy with one or 
        more specialists in pain management, mental health, or 
        addictions.
            (C) Enhanced guidance with respect to health care 
        providers--
                (i) conducting an effective assessment for patients 
            beginning or continuing opioid therapy, including 
            understanding and setting realistic goals with respect to 
            achieving and maintaining an expected level of pain relief, 
            improved function, or a clinically appropriate combination 
            of both; and
                (ii) effectively assessing whether opioid therapy is 
            achieving or maintaining the established treatment goals of 
            the patient or whether the patient and health care provider 
            should discuss adjusting, augmenting, or discontinuing the 
            opioid therapy.
            (D) Guidelines to inform the methodologies used by health 
        care providers of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
        Department of Defense to safely taper opioid therapy when 
        adjusting or discontinuing the use of opioid therapy, 
        including--
                (i) prescription of the lowest effective dose based on 
            patient need;
                (ii) use of opioids only for a limited time; and
                (iii) augmentation of opioid therapy with other pain 
            management therapies and modalities.
            (E) Guidelines with respect to appropriate case management 
        for patients receiving opioid therapy who transition between 
        inpatient and outpatient health care settings, which may 
        include the use of care transition plans.
            (F) Guidelines with respect to appropriate case management 
        for patients receiving opioid therapy who transition from 
        receiving care during active duty to post-military health care 
        networks.
            (G) Guidelines with respect to providing options, before 
        initiating opioid therapy, for pain management therapies 
        without the use of opioids and options to augment opioid 
        therapy with other clinical and complementary and integrative 
        health services to minimize opioid dependence.
            (H) Guidelines with respect to the provision of evidence-
        based non-opioid treatments within the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs and the Department of Defense, including medical 
        devices and other therapies approved or cleared by the Food and 
        Drug Administration for the treatment of chronic pain as an 
        alternative to or to augment opioid therapy.
            (I) Guidelines developed by the Centers for Disease Control 
        and Prevention for safely prescribing opioids for the treatment 
        of chronic, non-cancer related pain in outpatient settings.
        (3) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
    construed to prevent the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the 
    Secretary of Defense from considering all relevant evidence, as 
    appropriate, in updating the VA/DOD Clinical Practice Guideline for 
    Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic Pain, as required under 
    paragraph (1), or from ensuring that the final clinical practice 
    guideline updated under such paragraph remains applicable to the 
    patient populations of the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
    Department of Defense.
    SEC. 913. REVIEW, INVESTIGATION, AND REPORT ON USE OF OPIOIDS IN 
      TREATMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Comptroller General Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate 
    and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives a report on the Opioid Safety Initiative of the 
    Department of Veterans Affairs and the opioid prescribing practices 
    of health care providers of the Department.
        (2) Elements.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the implementation and monitoring by 
        the Veterans Health Administration of the Opioid Safety 
        Initiative of the Department, including examining, as 
        appropriate, the following:
                (i) How the Department monitors the key clinical 
            outcomes of such safety initiative (for example, the 
            percentage of unique veterans visiting each medical center 
            of the Department that are prescribed an opioid or an 
            opioid and benzodiazepine concurrently) and how the 
            Department uses that information--

                    (I) to improve prescribing practices; and
                    (II) to identify high prescribing or otherwise 
                inappropriate prescribing practices by health care 
                providers.

                (ii) How the Department monitors the use of the Opioid 
            Therapy Risk Report tool of the Department (as developed 
            through such safety initiative) and compliance with such 
            tool by medical facilities and health care providers of the 
            Department, including any findings by the Department of 
            prescription rates or prescription practices by medical 
            facilities or health care providers that are inappropriate.
                (iii) The implementation of academic detailing programs 
            within the Veterans Integrated Service Networks of the 
            Department and how such programs are being used to improve 
            opioid prescribing practices.
                (iv) Recommendations on such improvements to the Opioid 
            Safety Initiative of the Department as the Comptroller 
            General considers appropriate.
            (B) Information made available under the Opioid Therapy 
        Risk Report tool with respect to--
                (i) deaths resulting from sentinel events involving 
            veterans prescribed opioids by a health care provider;
                (ii) overall prescription rates and, if applicable, 
            indications used by health care providers for prescribing 
            chronic opioid therapy to treat non-cancer, non-palliative, 
            and non-hospice care patients;
                (iii) the prescription rates and indications used by 
            health care providers for prescribing benzodiazepines and 
            opioids concomitantly;
                (iv) the practice by health care providers of 
            prescribing opioids to treat patients without any pain, 
            including to treat patients with mental health disorders 
            other than opioid use disorder; and
                (v) the effectiveness of opioid therapy for patients 
            receiving such therapy, including the effectiveness of 
            long-term opioid therapy.
            (C) An evaluation of processes of the Department in place 
        to oversee opioid use among veterans, including procedures to 
        identify and remedy potential over-prescribing of opioids by 
        health care providers of the Department.
            (D) An assessment of the implementation by the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs of the VA/DOD Clinical Practice Guideline for 
        Management of Opioid Therapy for Chronic Pain, including any 
        figures or approaches used by the Department to assess 
        compliance with such guidelines by medical centers of the 
        Department and identify any medical centers of the Department 
        operating action plans to improve compliance with such 
        guidelines.
            (E) An assessment of the data that the Department has 
        developed to review the opioid prescribing practices of health 
        care providers of the Department, as required by this subtitle, 
        including a review of how the Department identifies the 
        practices of individual health care providers that warrant 
        further review based on prescribing levels, health conditions 
        for which the health care provider is prescribing opioids or 
        opioids and benzodiazepines concurrently, or other practices of 
        the health care provider.
    (b) Semi-annual Progress Report on Implementation of Comptroller 
General Recommendations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
submittal of the report required under subsection (a), and not less 
frequently than annually thereafter until the Comptroller General of 
the United States determines that all recommended actions are closed, 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a progress report detailing the actions 
by the Secretary to address any outstanding findings and 
recommendations by the Comptroller General of the United States under 
subsection (a) with respect to the Veterans Health Administration.
    (c) Annual Report on Opioid Therapy and Prescription Rates.--Not 
later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
not less frequently than annually for the following five years, the 
Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a report on opioid therapy and prescription rates for 
the one-year period preceding the date of the submission of the report. 
Each such report shall include each of the following:
        (1) The number of patients and the percentage of the patient 
    population of the Department who were prescribed benzodiazepines 
    and opioids concurrently by a health care provider of the 
    Department.
        (2) The number of patients and the percentage of the patient 
    population of the Department without any pain who were prescribed 
    opioids by a health care provider of the Department, including 
    those who were prescribed benzodiazepines and opioids concurrently.
        (3) The number of non-cancer, non-palliative, and non-hospice 
    care patients and the percentage of such patients who were treated 
    with opioids by a health care provider of the Department on an 
    inpatient-basis and who also received prescription opioids by mail 
    from the Department while being treated on an inpatient-basis.
        (4) The number of non-cancer, non-palliative, and non-hospice 
    care patients and the percentage of such patients who were 
    prescribed opioids concurrently by a health care provider of the 
    Department and a health care provider that is not a health care 
    provider of the Department.
        (5) With respect to each medical facility of the Department, 
    the collected and reviewed information on opioids prescribed by 
    health care providers at the facility to treat non-cancer, non-
    palliative, and non-hospice care patients, including--
            (A) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed benzodiazepines and opioids 
        concurrently to such patients and the aggregate of such 
        prescription rate for all health care providers at the 
        facility;
            (B) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed benzodiazepines or opioids 
        to such patients to treat conditions for which benzodiazepines 
        or opioids are not approved treatment and the aggregate of such 
        prescription rate for all health care providers at the 
        facility;
            (C) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed or dispensed mail-order 
        prescriptions of opioids to such patients while such patients 
        were being treated with opioids on an inpatient-basis and the 
        aggregate of such prescription rate for all health care 
        providers at the facility; and
            (D) the prescription rate at which each health care 
        provider at the facility prescribed opioids to such patients 
        who were also concurrently prescribed opioids by a health care 
        provider that is not a health care provider of the Department 
        and the aggregate of such prescription rates for all health 
        care providers at the facility.
        (6) With respect to each medical facility of the Department, 
    the number of times a pharmacist at the facility overrode a 
    critical drug interaction warning with respect to an interaction 
    between opioids and another medication before dispensing such 
    medication to a veteran.
    (d) Investigation of Prescription Rates.--If the Secretary 
determines that a prescription rate with respect to a health care 
provider or medical facility of the Department conflicts with or is 
otherwise inconsistent with the standards of appropriate and safe care, 
the Secretary shall--
        (1) immediately notify the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of 
    the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives of such determination, including information 
    relating to such determination, prescription rate, and health care 
    provider or medical facility, as the case may be; and
        (2) through the Office of the Medical Inspector of the Veterans 
    Health Administration, conduct a full investigation of the health 
    care provider or medical facility, as the case may be.
    (e) Prescription Rate Defined.--In this section, the term 
``prescription rate'' means, with respect to a health care provider or 
medical facility of the Department, each of the following:
        (1) The number of patients treated with opioids by the health 
    care provider or at the medical facility, as the case may be, 
    divided by the total number of pharmacy users of that health care 
    provider or medical facility.
        (2) The average number of morphine equivalents per day 
    prescribed by the health care provider or at the medical facility, 
    as the case may be, to patients being treated with opioids.
        (3) Of the patients being treated with opioids by the health 
    care provider or at the medical facility, as the case may be, the 
    average number of prescriptions of opioids per patient.
    SEC. 914. MANDATORY DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN VETERAN INFORMATION TO 
      STATE CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE MONITORING PROGRAMS.
    Section 5701(l) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``may'' and inserting ``shall''.
    SEC. 915. ELIMINATION OF COPAYMENT REQUIREMENT FOR VETERANS 
      RECEIVING OPIOID ANTAGONISTS OR EDUCATION ON USE OF OPIOID 
      ANTAGONISTS.
    (a) Copayment for Opioid Antagonists.--Section 1722A(a) of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
    ``(4) Paragraph (1) does not apply to opioid antagonists furnished 
under this chapter to a veteran who is at high risk for overdose of a 
specific medication or substance in order to reverse the effect of such 
an overdose.''.
    (b) Copayment for Education on Use of Opioid Antagonists.--Section 
1710(g)(3) of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``with respect to home health services'' and 
    inserting ``with respect to the following:''
        ``(A) Home health services''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following subparagraph:
        ``(B) Education on the use of opioid antagonists to reverse the 
    effects of overdoses of specific medications or substances.''.

                      Subtitle B--Patient Advocacy

    SEC. 921. COMMUNITY MEETINGS ON IMPROVING CARE FURNISHED BY 
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Community Meetings.--
        (1) Medical centers.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once every 
    90 days thereafter, the Secretary shall ensure that each medical 
    facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs hosts a community 
    meeting open to the public on improving health care furnished by 
    the Secretary.
        (2) Community-based outpatient clinics.--Not later than one 
    year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less 
    frequently than annually thereafter, the Secretary shall ensure 
    that each community-based outpatient clinic of the Department hosts 
    a community meeting open to the public on improving health care 
    furnished by the Secretary.
    (b) Attendance by Director of Veterans Integrated Service Network 
or Designee.--
        (1) In general.--Each community meeting hosted by a medical 
    facility or community-based outpatient clinic under subsection (a) 
    shall be attended by the Director of the Veterans Integrated 
    Service Network in which the medical facility or community-based 
    outpatient clinic, as the case may be, is located. Subject to 
    paragraph (2), the Director may delegate such attendance only to an 
    employee who works in the Office of the Director.
        (2) Attendance by director.--Each Director of a Veterans 
    Integrated Service Network shall personally attend not less than 
    one community meeting under subsection (a) hosted by each medical 
    facility located in the Veterans Integrated Service Network each 
    year.
    (c) Notice.--The Secretary shall notify the Committee on Veterans' 
Affairs of the Senate, the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House 
of Representatives, and each Member of Congress (as defined in section 
902) who represents the area in which the medical facility is located 
of a community meeting under subsection (a) by not later than 10 days 
before such community meeting occurs.
    SEC. 922. IMPROVEMENT OF AWARENESS OF PATIENT ADVOCACY PROGRAM AND 
      PATIENT BILL OF RIGHTS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, in as many prominent locations 
as the Secretary determines appropriate to be seen by the largest 
percentage of patients and family members of patients at each medical 
facility of the Department of Veterans Affairs--
        (1) display the purposes of the Patient Advocacy Program of the 
    Department and the contact information for the patient advocate at 
    such medical facility; and
        (2) display the rights and responsibilities of--
            (A) patients and family members of patients at such medical 
        facility; and
            (B) with respect to community living centers and other 
        residential facilities of the Department, residents and family 
        members of residents at such medical facility.
    SEC. 923. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON PATIENT ADVOCACY PROGRAM OF 
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and 
the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
report on the Patient Advocacy Program of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs (in this section referred to as the ``Program'').
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of the Program, including--
            (A) the purpose of the Program;
            (B) the activities carried out under the Program; and
            (C) the sufficiency of the Program in achieving the purpose 
        of the Program.
        (2) An assessment of the sufficiency of staffing of employees 
    of the Department responsible for carrying out the Program.
        (3) An assessment of the sufficiency of the training of such 
    employees.
        (4) An assessment of--
            (A) the awareness of the Program among veterans and family 
        members of veterans; and
            (B) the use of the Program by veterans and family members 
        of veterans.
        (5) Such recommendations and proposals for improving or 
    modifying the Program as the Comptroller General considers 
    appropriate.
        (6) Such other information with respect to the Program as the 
    Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    SEC. 924. ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF PATIENT ADVOCACY OF THE 
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7309A. Office of Patient Advocacy
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department within 
the Office of the Under Secretary for Health an office to be known as 
the `Office of Patient Advocacy' (in this section referred to as the 
`Office').
    ``(b) Head.--(1) The Director of the Office of Patient Advocacy 
shall be the head of the Office.
    ``(2) The Director of the Office of Patient Advocacy shall be 
appointed by the Under Secretary for Health from among individuals 
qualified to perform the duties of the position and shall report 
directly to the Under Secretary for Health.
    ``(c) Function.--(1) The function of the Office is to carry out the 
Patient Advocacy Program of the Department.
    ``(2) In carrying out the Patient Advocacy Program of the 
Department, the Director shall ensure that patient advocates of the 
Department--
        ``(A) advocate on behalf of veterans with respect to health 
    care received and sought by veterans under the laws administered by 
    the Secretary;
        ``(B) carry out the responsibilities specified in subsection 
    (d); and
        ``(C) receive training in patient advocacy.
    ``(d) Patient Advocacy Responsibilities.--The responsibilities of 
each patient advocate at a medical facility of the Department are the 
following:
        ``(1) To resolve complaints by veterans with respect to health 
    care furnished under the laws administered by the Secretary that 
    cannot be resolved at the point of service or at a higher level 
    easily accessible to the veteran.
        ``(2) To present at various meetings and to various committees 
    the issues experienced by veterans in receiving such health care at 
    such medical facility.
        ``(3) To express to veterans their rights and responsibilities 
    as patients in receiving such health care.
        ``(4) To manage the Patient Advocate Tracking System of the 
    Department at such medical facility.
        ``(5) To compile data at such medical facility of complaints 
    made by veterans with respect to the receipt of such health care at 
    such medical facility and the satisfaction of veterans with such 
    health care at such medical facility to determine whether there are 
    trends in such data.
        ``(6) To ensure that a process is in place for the distribution 
    of the data compiled under paragraph (5) to appropriate leaders, 
    committees, services, and staff of the Department.
        ``(7) To identify, not less frequently than quarterly, 
    opportunities for improvements in the furnishing of such health 
    care to veterans at such medical facility based on complaints by 
    veterans.
        ``(8) To ensure that any significant complaint by a veteran 
    with respect to such health care is brought to the attention of 
    appropriate staff of the Department to trigger an assessment of 
    whether there needs to be a further analysis of the problem at the 
    facility-wide level.
        ``(9) To support any patient advocacy programs carried out by 
    the Department.
        ``(10) To ensure that all appeals and final decisions with 
    respect to the receipt of such health care are entered into the 
    Patient Advocate Tracking System of the Department.
        ``(11) To understand all laws, directives, and other rules with 
    respect to the rights and responsibilities of veterans in receiving 
    such health care, including the appeals processes available to 
    veterans.
        ``(12) To ensure that veterans receiving mental health care, or 
    the surrogate decision-makers for such veterans, are aware of the 
    rights of veterans to seek representation from systems established 
    under section 103 of the Protection and Advocacy for Mentally Ill 
    Individuals Act of 1986 (42 U.S.C. 10803) to protect and advocate 
    the rights of individuals with mental illness and to investigate 
    incidents of abuse and neglect of such individuals.
        ``(13) To fulfill requirements established by the Secretary 
    with respect to the inspection of controlled substances.
        ``(14) To document potentially threatening behavior and report 
    such behavior to appropriate authorities.
    ``(e) Training.--In providing training to patient advocates under 
subsection (c)(2)(C), the Director shall ensure that such training is 
consistent throughout the Department.
    ``(f) Controlled Substance Defined.--In this section, the term 
`controlled substance' has the meaning given that term in section 102 
of the Controlled Substances Act (21 U.S.C. 802).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 73 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 7309 the following new item:

``7309A. Office of Patient Advocacy.''.

    (c) Date Fully Operational.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall ensure that the Office of Patient Advocacy established under 
section 7309A of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection 
(a), is fully operational not later than the date that is one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

            Subtitle C--Complementary and Integrative Health

    SEC. 931. EXPANSION OF RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ON AND DELIVERY OF 
      COMPLEMENTARY AND INTEGRATIVE HEALTH TO VETERANS.
    (a) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be known 
as the ``Creating Options for Veterans' Expedited Recovery'' or the 
``COVER Commission'' (in this section referred to as the 
``Commission''). The Commission shall examine the evidence-based 
therapy treatment model used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for 
treating mental health conditions of veterans and the potential 
benefits of incorporating complementary and integrative health 
treatments available in non-Department facilities (as defined in 
section 1701 of title 38, United States Code).
    (b) Duties.--The Commission shall perform the following duties:
        (1) Examine the efficacy of the evidence-based therapy model 
    used by the Secretary for treating mental health illnesses of 
    veterans and identify areas to improve wellness-based outcomes.
        (2) Conduct a patient-centered survey within each of the 
    Veterans Integrated Service Networks to examine--
            (A) the experience of veterans with the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs when seeking medical assistance for mental 
        health issues through the health care system of the Department;
            (B) the experience of veterans with non-Department 
        facilities and health professionals for treating mental health 
        issues;
            (C) the preference of veterans regarding available 
        treatment for mental health issues and which methods the 
        veterans believe to be most effective;
            (D) the experience, if any, of veterans with respect to the 
        complementary and integrative health treatment therapies 
        described in paragraph (3);
            (E) the prevalence of prescribing prescription medication 
        among veterans seeking treatment through the health care system 
        of the Department as remedies for addressing mental health 
        issues; and
            (F) the outreach efforts of the Secretary regarding the 
        availability of benefits and treatments for veterans for 
        addressing mental health issues, including by identifying ways 
        to reduce barriers to gaps in such benefits and treatments.
        (3) Examine available research on complementary and integrative 
    health treatment therapies for mental health issues and identify 
    what benefits could be made with the inclusion of such treatments 
    for veterans, including with respect to--
            (A) music therapy;
            (B) equine therapy;
            (C) training and caring for service dogs;
            (D) yoga therapy;
            (E) acupuncture therapy;
            (F) meditation therapy;
            (G) outdoor sports therapy;
            (H) hyperbaric oxygen therapy;
            (I) accelerated resolution therapy;
            (J) art therapy;
            (K) magnetic resonance therapy; and
            (L) other therapies the Commission determines appropriate.
        (4) Study the sufficiency of the resources of the Department to 
    ensure the delivery of quality health care for mental health issues 
    among veterans seeking treatment within the Department.
        (5) Study the current treatments and resources available within 
    the Department and assess--
            (A) the effectiveness of such treatments and resources in 
        decreasing the number of suicides per day by veterans;
            (B) the number of veterans who have been diagnosed with 
        mental health issues;
            (C) the percentage of veterans using the resources of the 
        Department who have been diagnosed with mental health issues;
            (D) the percentage of veterans who have completed 
        counseling sessions offered by the Department; and
            (E) the efforts of the Department to expand complementary 
        and integrative health treatments viable to the recovery of 
        veterans with mental health issues as determined by the 
        Secretary to improve the effectiveness of treatments offered by 
        the Department.
    (c) Membership.--
        (1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of 10 
    members, appointed as follows:
            (A) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, at least one of whom shall be a veteran.
            (B) Two members appointed by the minority leader of the 
        House of Representatives, at least one of whom shall be a 
        veteran.
            (C) Two members appointed by the majority leader of the 
        Senate, at least one of whom shall be a veteran.
            (D) Two members appointed by the minority leader of the 
        Senate, at least one of whom shall be a veteran.
            (E) Two members appointed by the President, at least one of 
        whom shall be a veteran.
        (2) Qualifications.--Members of the Commission shall be 
    individuals who--
            (A) are of recognized standing and distinction within the 
        medical community with a background in treating mental health;
            (B) have experience working with the military and veteran 
        population; and
            (C) do not have a financial interest in any of the 
        complementary and integrative health treatments reviewed by the 
        Commission.
        (3) Chairman.--The President shall designate a member of the 
    Commission to be the Chairman.
        (4) Period of appointment.--Members of the Commission shall be 
    appointed for the life of the Commission.
        (5) Vacancy.--A vacancy in the Commission shall be filled in 
    the manner in which the original appointment was made.
        (6) Appointment deadline.--The appointment of members of the 
    Commission in this section shall be made not later than 90 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Powers of Commission.--
        (1) Meetings.--
            (A) Initial meeting.--The Commission shall hold its first 
        meeting not later than 30 days after a majority of members are 
        appointed to the Commission.
            (B) Meeting.--The Commission shall regularly meet at the 
        call of the Chairman. Such meetings may be carried out through 
        the use of telephonic or other appropriate telecommunication 
        technology if the Commission determines that such technology 
        will allow the members to communicate simultaneously.
        (2) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, sit and 
    act at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive 
    evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out the 
    responsibilities of the Commission.
        (3) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission may 
    secure directly from any department or agency of the Federal 
    Government such information as the Commission considers necessary 
    to carry out the duties of the Commission.
        (4) Information from nongovernmental organizations.--In 
    carrying out its duties, the Commission may seek guidance through 
    consultation with foundations, veteran service organizations, 
    nonprofit groups, faith-based organizations, private and public 
    institutions of higher education, and other organizations as the 
    Commission determines appropriate.
        (5) Commission records.--The Commission shall keep an accurate 
    and complete record of the actions and meetings of the Commission. 
    Such record shall be made available for public inspection and the 
    Comptroller General of the United States may audit and examine such 
    record.
        (6) Personnel records.--The Commission shall keep an accurate 
    and complete record of the actions and meetings of the Commission. 
    Such record shall be made available for public inspection and the 
    Comptroller General of the United States may audit and examine such 
    records.
        (7) Compensation of members; travel expenses.--Each member 
    shall serve without pay but shall receive travel expenses to 
    perform the duties of the Commission, including per diem in lieu of 
    substances, at rates authorized under subchapter I of chapter 57 of 
    title 5, United States Code.
        (8) Staff.--The Chairman, in accordance with rules agreed upon 
    the Commission, may appoint and fix the compensation of a staff 
    director and such other personnel as may be necessary to enable the 
    Commission to carry out its functions, without regard to the 
    provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing appointments 
    in the competitive service, without regard to the provision of 
    chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of such title relating 
    to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that no 
    rate of pay fixed under this paragraph may exceed the equivalent of 
    that payable for a position at level IV of the Executive Schedule 
    under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code.
        (9) Personnel as federal employees.--
            (A) In general.--The executive director and any personnel 
        of the Commission are employees under section 2105 of title 5, 
        United States Code, for purpose of chapters 63, 81, 83, 84, 85, 
        87, 89, and 90 of such title.
            (B) Members of the commission.--Subparagraph (A) shall not 
        be construed to apply to members of the Commission.
        (10) Contracting.--The Commission may, to such extent and in 
    such amounts as are provided in appropriations Acts, enter into 
    contracts to enable the Commission to discharge the duties of the 
    Commission under this Act.
        (11) Expert and consultant service.--The Commission may procure 
    the services of experts and consultants in accordance with section 
    3109 of title 5, United States Code, at rates not to exceed the 
    daily rate paid to a person occupying a position at level IV of the 
    Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
    Code.
        (12) Postal service.--The Commission may use the United States 
    mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as 
    departments and agencies of the United States.
        (13) Physical facilities and equipment.--Upon the request of 
    the Commission, the Administrator of General Services shall provide 
    to the Commission, on a reimbursable basis, the administrative 
    support services necessary for the Commission to carry out its 
    responsibilities under this Act. These administrative services may 
    include human resource management, budget, leasing accounting, and 
    payroll services.
    (e) Report.--
        (1) Interim reports.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
        which the Commission first meets, and each 30-day period 
        thereafter ending on the date on which the Commission submits 
        the final report under paragraph (2), the Commission shall 
        submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate and the President a report 
        detailing the level of cooperation the Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs (and the heads of other departments or agencies of the 
        Federal Government) has provided to the Commission.
            (B) Other reports.--In carrying out its duties, at times 
        that the Commission determines appropriate, the Commission 
        shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives and the Senate and any other 
        appropriate entities an interim report with respect to the 
        findings identified by the Commission.
        (2) Final report.--Not later than 18 months after the first 
    meeting of the Commission, the Commission shall submit to the 
    Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives and 
    the Senate, the President, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs a 
    final report on the findings of the Commission. Such report shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Recommendations to implement in a feasible, timely, and 
        cost-efficient manner the solutions and remedies identified 
        within the findings of the Commission pursuant to subsection 
        (b).
            (B) An analysis of the evidence-based therapy model used by 
        the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for treating veterans with 
        mental health care issues, and an examination of the prevalence 
        and efficacy of prescription drugs as a means for treatment.
            (C) The findings of the patient-centered survey conducted 
        within each of the Veterans Integrated Service Networks 
        pursuant to subsection (b)(2).
            (D) An examination of complementary and integrative health 
        treatments described in subsection (b)(3) and the potential 
        benefits of incorporating such treatments in the therapy models 
        used by the Secretary for treating veterans with mental health 
        issues.
        (3) Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which the 
    Commission submits the final report under paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on 
    Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
    report on the following:
            (A) An action plan for implementing the recommendations 
        established by the Commission on such solutions and remedies 
        for improving wellness-based outcomes for veterans with mental 
        health care issues.
            (B) A feasible timeframe on when the complementary and 
        integrative health treatments described in subsection (b)(3) 
        can be implemented Department-wide.
            (C) With respect to each recommendation established by the 
        Commission, including any complementary and integrative health 
        treatment, that the Secretary determines is not appropriate or 
        feasible to implement, a justification for such determination 
        and an alternative solution to improve the efficacy of the 
        therapy models used by the Secretary for treating veterans with 
        mental health issues.
    (f) Termination of Commission.--The Commission shall terminate 30 
days after the Commission submits the final report under subsection 
(e)(2).
    SEC. 932. EXPANSION OF RESEARCH AND EDUCATION ON AND DELIVERY OF 
      COMPLEMENTARY AND INTEGRATIVE HEALTH TO VETERANS.
    (a) Development of Plan To Expand Research, Education, and 
Delivery.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop a plan to 
expand materially and substantially the scope of the effectiveness of 
research and education on, and delivery and integration of, 
complementary and integrative health services into the health care 
services provided to veterans.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall provide 
for the following:
        (1) Research on the following:
            (A) The effectiveness of various complementary and 
        integrative health services, including the effectiveness of 
        such services integrated with clinical services.
            (B) Approaches to integrating complementary and integrative 
        health services into other health care services provided by the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs.
        (2) Education and training for health care professionals of the 
    Department on the following:
            (A) Complementary and integrative health services selected 
        by the Secretary for purposes of the plan.
            (B) Appropriate uses of such services.
            (C) Integration of such services into the delivery of 
        health care to veterans.
        (3) Research, education, and clinical activities on 
    complementary and integrative health at centers of innovation at 
    medical centers of the Department.
        (4) Identification or development of metrics and outcome 
    measures to evaluate the effectiveness of the provision and 
    integration of complementary and integrative health services into 
    the delivery of health care to veterans.
        (5) Integration and delivery of complementary and integrative 
    health services with other health care services provided by the 
    Department.
    (c) Consultation.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary 
    shall consult with the following:
            (A) The Director of the National Center for Complementary 
        and Integrative Health of the National Institutes of Health.
            (B) The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
            (C) Institutions of higher education, private research 
        institutes, and individual researchers with extensive 
        experience in complementary and integrative health and the 
        integration of complementary and integrative health practices 
        into the delivery of health care.
            (D) Nationally recognized providers of complementary and 
        integrative health.
            (E) Such other officials, entities, and individuals with 
        expertise on complementary and integrative health as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) Scope of consultation.--The Secretary shall undertake 
    consultation under paragraph (1) in carrying out subsection (a) 
    with respect to the following:
            (A) To develop the plan.
            (B) To identify specific complementary and integrative 
        health practices that, on the basis of research findings or 
        promising clinical interventions, are appropriate to include as 
        services to veterans.
            (C) To identify barriers to the effective provision and 
        integration of complementary and integrative health services 
        into the delivery of health care to veterans, and to identify 
        mechanisms for overcoming such barriers.
    SEC. 933. PILOT PROGRAM ON INTEGRATION OF COMPLEMENTARY AND 
      INTEGRATIVE HEALTH AND RELATED ISSUES FOR VETERANS AND FAMILY 
      MEMBERS OF VETERANS.
    (a) Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs receives the final report 
    under section 931(e)(2), the Secretary shall commence a pilot 
    program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using 
    complementary and integrative health and wellness-based programs 
    (as defined by the Secretary) to complement the provision of pain 
    management and related health care services, including mental 
    health care services, to veterans.
        (2) Matters addressed.--In carrying out the pilot program, the 
    Secretary shall assess the following:
            (A) Means of improving coordination between Federal, State, 
        local, and community providers of health care in the provision 
        of pain management and related health care services to 
        veterans.
            (B) Means of enhancing outreach, and coordination of 
        outreach, by and among providers of health care referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) on the pain management and related health care 
        services available to veterans.
            (C) Means of using complementary and integrative health and 
        wellness-based programs of providers of health care referred to 
        in subparagraph (A) as complements to the provision by the 
        Department of Veterans Affairs of pain management and related 
        health care services to veterans.
            (D) Whether complementary and integrative health and 
        wellness-based programs described in subparagraph (C)--
                (i) are effective in enhancing the quality of life and 
            well-being of veterans;
                (ii) are effective in increasing the adherence of 
            veterans to the primary pain management and related health 
            care services provided such veterans by the Department;
                (iii) have an effect on the sense of well-being of 
            veterans who receive primary pain management and related 
            health care services from the Department; and
                (iv) are effective in encouraging veterans receiving 
            health care from the Department to adopt a more healthy 
            lifestyle.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a)(1) for a period of three years.
    (c) Locations.--
        (1) Facilities.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot 
    program under subsection (a)(1) at facilities of the Department 
    providing pain management and related health care services, 
    including mental health care services, to veterans. In selecting 
    such facilities to carry out the pilot program, the Secretary shall 
    select not fewer than 15 geographically diverse medical centers of 
    the Department, of which not fewer than two shall be polytrauma 
    rehabilitation centers of the Department.
        (2) Medical centers with prescription rates of opioids that 
    conflict with care standards.--In selecting the medical centers 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall give priority to medical 
    centers of the Department at which there is a prescription rate of 
    opioids that conflicts with or is otherwise inconsistent with the 
    standards of appropriate and safe care.
    (d) Provision of Services.--Under the pilot program under 
subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall provide covered services to 
covered veterans by integrating complementary and integrative health 
services with other services provided by the Department at the medical 
centers selected under subsection (c).
    (e) Covered Veterans.--For purposes of the pilot program under 
subsection (a)(1), a covered veteran is any veteran who--
        (1) has a mental health condition diagnosed by a clinician of 
    the Department;
        (2) experiences chronic pain;
        (3) has a chronic condition being treated by a clinician of the 
    Department; or
        (4) is not described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) and requests 
    to participate in the pilot program or is referred by a clinician 
    of the Department who is treating the veteran.
    (f) Covered Services.--
        (1) In general.--For purposes of the pilot program, covered 
    services are services consisting of complementary and integrative 
    health services as selected by the Secretary.
        (2) Administration of services.--Covered services shall be 
    administered under the pilot program as follows:
            (A) Covered services shall be administered by professionals 
        or other instructors with appropriate training and expertise in 
        complementary and integrative health services who are employees 
        of the Department or with whom the Department enters into an 
        agreement to provide such services.
            (B) Covered services shall be included as part of the 
        Patient Aligned Care Teams initiative of the Office of Patient 
        Care Services, Primary Care Program Office, in coordination 
        with the Office of Patient Centered Care and Cultural 
        Transformation.
            (C) Covered services shall be made available to--
                (i) covered veterans who have received conventional 
            treatments from the Department for the conditions for which 
            the covered veteran seeks complementary and integrative 
            health services under the pilot program; and
                (ii) covered veterans who have not received 
            conventional treatments from the Department for such 
            conditions.
    (g) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 months after the date on 
    which the Secretary commences the pilot program under subsection 
    (a)(1), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Veterans' 
    Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs of the 
    House of Representatives a report on the pilot program.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) The findings and conclusions of the Secretary with 
        respect to the pilot program under subsection (a)(1), including 
        with respect to--
                (i) the use and efficacy of the complementary and 
            integrative health services established under the pilot 
            program;
                (ii) the outreach conducted by the Secretary to inform 
            veterans and community organizations about the pilot 
            program; and
                (iii) an assessment of the benefit of the pilot program 
            to covered veterans in mental health diagnoses, pain 
            management, and treatment of chronic illness.
            (B) Identification of any unresolved barriers that impede 
        the ability of the Secretary to incorporate complementary and 
        integrative health services with other health care services 
        provided by the Department.
            (C) Such recommendations for the continuation or expansion 
        of the pilot program as the Secretary considers appropriate.

              Subtitle D--Fitness of Health Care Providers

    SEC. 941. ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR HIRING OF HEALTH CARE 
      PROVIDERS BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    As part of the hiring process for each health care provider 
considered for a position at the Department of Veterans Affairs after 
the date of the enactment of the Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
shall require from the medical board of each State in which the health 
care provider has or had a medical license--
        (1) information on any violation of the requirements of the 
    medical license of the health care provider during the 20-year 
    period preceding the consideration of the health care provider by 
    the Department; and
        (2) information on whether the health care provider has entered 
    into any settlement agreement for a disciplinary charge relating to 
    the practice of medicine by the health care provider.
    SEC. 942. PROVISION OF INFORMATION ON HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS OF 
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS TO STATE MEDICAL BOARDS.
    Notwithstanding section 552a of title 5, United States Code, with 
respect to each health care provider of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs who has violated a requirement of the medical license of the 
health care provider, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall provide 
to the medical board of each State in which the health care provider is 
licensed detailed information with respect to such violation, 
regardless of whether such board has formally requested such 
information.
    SEC. 943. REPORT ON COMPLIANCE BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
      WITH REVIEWS OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDERS LEAVING THE DEPARTMENT OR 
      TRANSFERRING TO OTHER FACILITIES.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committee on 
Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
of the House of Representatives a report on the compliance by the 
Department of Veterans Affairs with the policy of the Department--
        (1) to conduct a review of each health care provider of the 
    Department who transfers to another medical facility of the 
    Department, resigns, retires, or is terminated to determine whether 
    there are any concerns, complaints, or allegations of violations 
    relating to the medical practice of the health care provider; and
        (2) to take appropriate action with respect to any such 
    concern, complaint, or allegation.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

    SEC. 951. MODIFICATION TO LIMITATION ON AWARDS AND BONUSES.
    Section 705 of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability Act 
of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 38 U.S.C. 703 note) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``SEC. 705. LIMITATION ON AWARDS AND BONUSES PAID TO EMPLOYEES OF 
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    ``(a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall ensure 
that the aggregate amount of awards and bonuses paid by the Secretary 
in a fiscal year under chapter 45 or 53 of title 5, United States Code, 
or any other awards or bonuses authorized under such title or title 38, 
United States Code, does not exceed the following amounts:
        ``(1) With respect to each of fiscal years 2017 through 2018, 
    $230,000,000.
        ``(2) With respect to each of fiscal years 2019 through 2021, 
    $225,000,000.
        ``(3) With respect to each of fiscal years 2022 through 2024, 
    $360,000,000.
    ``(b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
limitation under subsection (a) should not disproportionately impact 
lower-wage employees and that the Department of Veterans Affairs is 
encouraged to use bonuses to incentivize high-performing employees in 
areas in which retention is challenging.''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
