[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2620 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2620

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
To amend the United States Cotton Futures Act to exclude certain cotton 
             futures contracts from coverage under such Act.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. EXCLUDING CERTAIN COTTON FUTURES CONTRACTS FROM COVERAGE 
UNDER UNITED STATES COTTON FUTURES ACT.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (c)(1) of the United States Cotton 
Futures Act (7 U.S.C. 15B(c)(1)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``except that any cotton futures contract'' and 
    inserting the following: ``except that--
            ``(A) any cotton futures contract'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A) (as designated by paragraph (1)), by 
    striking the period at the end and inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) any cotton futures contract that permits tender of 
        cotton grown outside of the United States is excluded from the 
        coverage of this paragraph and section to the extent that the 
        cotton grown outside of the United States is tendered for 
        delivery under the cotton futures contract.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to cotton futures contracts entered into on or after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
