[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6117 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6117

 To provide at-risk and disconnected youth with subsidized summer and 
  year-round employment and to assist local community partnerships in 
 improving high school graduation and youth employment rates, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 22, 2016

Mr. Scott of Virginia introduced the following bill; which was referred 
            to the Committee on Education and the Workforce

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide at-risk and disconnected youth with subsidized summer and 
  year-round employment and to assist local community partnerships in 
 improving high school graduation and youth employment rates, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Opening Doors for Youth Act of 
2016''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The time between the early teens and mid-twenties 
        represents a critical developmental period in which individuals 
        can gain the education and training, entry-level work 
        experiences, work-readiness skills, and social networks needed 
        to smoothly transition into the labor market and build towards 
        future professional success.
            (2) Yet, in 2014, 5.25 million young adults between the 
        ages of 16 and 24 were out of school and unemployed, leaving 
        them disconnected from the systems and institutions critical 
        for developing the building blocks of independence and self-
        sufficiency.
            (3) According to research by Measure of America, the 
        overwhelming number of youth disconnected from school and work 
        come from disconnected communities marked by high adult 
        unemployment, poverty, and racial segregation, as well as low 
        levels of adult education attainment. These communities often 
        lack the resources and supports needed to prevent and reverse 
        youth disconnection.
            (4) Communities of color experience the highest rates of 
        youth disconnection: 27.8 percent of Native American youth, 
        21.6 percent of Black youth, and 16.3 percent of Latino youth 
        between the ages of 16 and 24 were disconnected from school and 
        work in 2013.
            (5) Disconnection from school and work can have significant 
        consequences for youth, including decreased earning power and 
        fewer future employment opportunities. According to the 2012 
        report, ``The Economic Value of Opportunity Youth'', 
        disconnected youth will, on average, earn $392,070 less than 
        the average worker over their lifetimes.
            (6) Failure to successfully connect young people to 
        employment and educational opportunities also results in a 
        significant loss in productivity for the overall economy, as 
        well as increases in government spending. According to a recent 
        report from Measure of America, in 2013, youth disconnection 
        resulted in $26.8 billion in public expenditures, including 
        spending on health care, public assistance, and incarceration.
            (7) These young people are commonly referred to as 
        ``opportunity youth'' because of their tremendous potential, 
        despite being out of school and work. Given the appropriate 
        supports and resources, opportunity youth would add great 
        social and economic value to our communities and the economy. 
        According to the Opportunity Index, an annual measurement of 
        opportunity in a geographic region, the number of opportunity 
        youth, along with educational attainment and poverty rates, are 
        strongly linked to overall opportunity in communities. When 
        young adults do well, communities do well.
            (8) Despite their talent and motivation, many opportunity 
        youth lack access to the training, education, and entry-level 
        jobs that can help them gain the work experience and 
        credentials needed to successfully transition into the labor 
        market.
            (9) Lack access to entry-level jobs can limit a young 
        adult's ability to accrue early work experience and demonstrate 
        productivity and work readiness to potential employers.
            (10) Summer and year-round youth employment programs that 
        connect young adults with entry-level jobs give youth the work 
        experience and opportunity for skill development needed to 
        transition into the labor market and prevent points of 
        disconnection, such as involvement in the criminal and juvenile 
        justice systems.
            (11) Evidence suggests that summer youth employment 
        programs may help in-school youth remain connected to the 
        education system. A study of the New York City Summer Youth 
        Employment Program (SYEP) found that after program 
        participation, youth older than 16 increased their school 
        attendance by four or five additional days compared to their 
        previous fall semester attendance. This attendance increase 
        represented 25 percent of the total days students were 
        permitted to miss school and still continue on to the next 
        grade.
            (12) Evidence shows that participation in summer youth 
        employment programs also reduces the rate of violent crimes 
        arrests. For example, studies of Chicago's One Summer Plus 
        program show that the program reduced violent crime arrests 
        among at-risk youth by approximately 43 percent, with crime 
        reduction benefits lasting over a year after the program had 
        ended. This reduction can have significant impact for young 
        people, given the impact of a criminal record on future 
        employment prospects and wages.
            (13) Despite the benefits of summer employment, summer 
        youth employment has declined by more than 40 percent during 
        the past 12 years, at a loss of more than 3 million summer jobs 
        for young Americans. A J.P. Morgan Chase study of 14 major U.S. 
        cities found that summer youth employment programs were only 
        able to provide opportunities for 46 percent of applicants in 
        2014.
            (14) Young adults of color are less likely to be employed 
        during summer months. According to a My Brother's Keeper Task 
        Force Report, White male teenagers were employed at twice the 
        rate of Black male teenagers during the summer of 2013.
            (15) Labor market shifts have also limited opportunities 
        for young adults without a high school diploma or with limited 
        postsecondary credentials. According to a 2013 Georgetown 
        University Center on Education and the Workforce report, by the 
        year 2020, an estimated 65 percent of all U.S. jobs will 
        require postsecondary education and training.
            (16) Many at-risk or opportunity youth, finding that 
        traditional pathways to educational attainment or employment 
        are ill-matched to their individual needs, struggle to remain 
        connected or reconnect to school and work.
            (17) For some youth, individual barriers--such as unstable 
        housing, lack access to affordable child care or 
        transportation, or involvement in the juvenile or criminal 
        justice system--make it difficult to take advantage of existing 
        employment and education pathways.
            (18) According the 2016 report, ``Supportive Services in 
        Job Training and Education: A Research Review'', studies 
        suggest that education and training programs that offer 
        supportive services, such as child care, transportation, and 
        financial assistance, are associated with improved outcomes.
            (19) Community-based preventions and interventions can 
        address the distinct problems opportunity youth may face in the 
        local community and provide a connection to the education and 
        training, re-engagement, and supportive services needed to help 
        these young people succeed.
            (20) Previous Federal grant programs targeting communities 
        with high rates of poverty have been successful in building 
        such communities' capacity to improve labor market 
        participation and education attainment rates for young adults.

SEC. 3. AUTHORIZATION OF FUNDS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Labor 
$5,500,000,000 to carry out this Act.

SEC. 4. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts available under section 3, the 
Secretary of Labor shall--
            (1) allot $1,500,000,000 in accordance with section 5 to 
        provide eligible youth with subsidized summer employment 
        opportunities;
            (2) allot $2,000,000,000 in accordance with section 6 to 
        provide eligible youth with partially subsidized year-round 
        employment opportunities; and
            (3) award $2,000,000,000 in competitive grants in 
        accordance with section 7 to assist local community 
        partnerships in improving high school graduation and youth 
        employment rates.
    (b) Reservation.--The Secretary of Labor may reserve--
            (1) not more than 5 percent of amounts available under each 
        of paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) for the costs 
        of technical assistance and Federal administration of this Act; 
        and
            (2) not more than 2 percent of amounts available under each 
        of paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) for the costs 
        of evaluations conducted under section 10.
    (c) Period of Availability.--The amounts appropriated under this 
Act shall be available for obligation by the Secretary of Labor until 
the date that is 4 years after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 5. SUMMER EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR OPPORTUNITY YOUTH.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts available under section 4(a)(1) 
that is not reserved under section 4(b), the Secretary of Labor shall, 
for the purpose of carrying out summer employment programs under this 
section--
            (1) make an allotment in accordance with section 
        127(b)(1)(C)(ii) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
        Act (29 U.S.C. 3162(b)(1)(C)(ii)) to each State that meets the 
        requirements of section 102 or 103 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3112, 
        3113); and
            (2) reserve not more than one-quarter of 1 percent of such 
        amounts to provide assistance to the outlying areas.
    (b) Within State Allocations.--
            (1) In general.--The Governor of a State, in accordance 
        with the State plan developed under section 102 or 103 of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3112, 
        3113), shall allocate the amounts that are allotted to the 
        State under subsection (a)(1) to eligible local areas in 
        accordance with section 128(b)(2)(A) of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3163(b)(2)(A)) for 
        the purpose of carrying out summer employment programs under 
        this section.
            (2) Local reservation.--Of the amounts allocated to a local 
        area under paragraph (1), not more than 7 percent of such 
        amounts may be used for the administrative costs of carrying 
        out a summer employment program under this section, including 
        the costs of conducting outreach for such program.
    (c) Eligible Local Area.--In order for a local area to be eligible 
for funds under this section, the local board of the local area shall 
submit to the Governor a plan for the summer employment program at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Governor 
may reasonably require. At a minimum, each plan shall be consistent 
with the local plan submitted by the local board under section 108 of 
the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3123) and 
include--
            (1) a description of how the local area will carry out the 
        activities described in subsection (d);
            (2) the number of individuals expected to participate in 
        the summer employment program;
            (3) a description of the services, including supportive 
        services, that the summer employment program is expected to 
        provide;
            (4) an assurance that the summer employment program will be 
        aligned with the youth services provided under the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.); and
            (5) an assurance that the local area will adhere to the 
        labor standards outlined in section 8.
    (d) Local Use of Funds.--
            (1) Youth participant eligibility.--To be eligible to 
        participate in activities carried out under this section during 
        any program year, an individual shall, at the time the 
        eligibility determination is made, be--
                    (A) not younger than age 14 or older than age 24; 
                and
                    (B) one of the following:
                            (i) An out-of-school youth.
                            (ii) An in-school youth.
                            (iii) An unemployed individual.
            (2) Mandatory uses.--The local area, from the amounts 
        allocated under this section, shall carry out, for eligible 
        youth, a summer employment program that--
                    (A) matches each youth participant with an 
                appropriate employer, based on factors including the 
                needs of the employer and the age, skill, and informed 
                aspirations of the youth participant, for a high-
                quality summer employment opportunity, which may not--
                            (i) be less than 4 weeks; and
                            (ii) pay less than the highest of the 
                        Federal, State, or local minimum wage;
                    (B) subsidizes not more than 50 percent of the 
                wages of each youth participant from program funds;
                    (C) funds not less than 50 percent of the wages of 
                each youth participant through other public, private, 
                or philanthropic funds, which may include an employer's 
                payment of such wages;
                    (D) provides each employer with coaching and 
                mentoring on how to successfully employ each youth 
                participant in meaningful work;
                    (E) provides each youth participant with coaching 
                and mentoring to enhance the summer employment 
                opportunity and facilitate the completion of the 
                program;
                    (F) provides each youth participant who does not 
                complete the summer employment opportunity with 
                coaching and mentoring to facilitate re-enrollment and 
                completion of the program;
                    (G) provides each youth participant with 
                educational programs related to the summer employment 
                opportunity to enhance the summer employment 
                opportunity;
                    (H) if applicable, provides each youth participant 
                with supportive services to enable participation in the 
                program;
                    (I) develops a plan to create unsubsidized summer 
                employment opportunities, increase summer employment 
                opportunities in the private sector, and gradually 
                increase the number of unsubsidized or partly 
                subsidized summer employment opportunities; and
                    (J) connects each youth participant with a provider 
                of youth, adult, and adult education and literacy 
                services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
                Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.), including those provided 
                at one-stop centers.
            (3) Discretionary uses.--The amounts allocated under this 
        section may be used to carry out, for eligible youth, a summer 
        employment program that--
                    (A) integrates the services provided by the program 
                with existing year-round youth development programs and 
                secondary school programs, including any service 
                provided by a provider of youth services under the 
                Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3101 et seq.) and skills training programs funded by 
                the State or Federal Government;
                    (B) provides each youth participant with career 
                planning services to facilitate success after the 
                program ends; and
                    (C) provides each youth participant with high-
                quality financial literacy education, including 
                education on the use of credit and financing higher 
                education, and access to safe and affordable banking 
                accounts with consumer protections.
    (e) Program Priorities.--In allocating funds under this section, 
priority shall be given to summer employment opportunities--
            (1) in existing or emerging in-demand industry sectors or 
        occupations; or
            (2) that meet community needs in the public, private, or 
        nonprofit sector.
    (f) Performance Accountability.--For activities funded under this 
section, the primary indicators of performance shall include the 
performance metrics described in sections 116(b)(2)(A)(i)(V) and 
116(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
U.S.C. 3141(b)(2)(A)(i)(V), 3141(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I)) and a work-readiness 
indicator established by the local area or outlying area pursuant to 
any regulation or guideline issued by the Secretary of Labor.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--For each year that a local area or 
        outlying area administers a summer employment program under 
        this section, the local area or outlying area shall submit to 
        the Secretary of Labor and, if applicable, the State a report 
        on--
                    (A) the number of youth participants in the 
                program, including the number of in-school and out-of-
                school youth;
                    (B) the number of youth participants who completed 
                the summer employment opportunity;
                    (C) the expenditures made from the amounts 
                allocated under this section, including expenditures 
                made to provide youth participants with supportive 
                services;
                    (D) a description of the supportive services 
                offered to youth participants, including the number of 
                youth participants accessing such services;
                    (E) information specifying the levels of 
                performance achieved with respect to the primary 
                indicators of performance described in subsection (f) 
                for the program;
                    (F) the source and amount of funding for the wages 
                of each youth participant;
                    (G) any other information that the Secretary of 
                Labor determines necessary to monitor the effectiveness 
                of the program; and
                    (H) at the discretion of the local area or outlying 
                area, the number of hours and weeks worked and the 
                amount of wages earned by youth participants in the 
                program.
            (2) Disaggregation.--The information required to be 
        reported pursuant to subparagraphs (A), (B), and (E) of 
        paragraph (1) shall be disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, 
        age, and subpopulations described in section 
        129(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VI) of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3164(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VI)).

SEC. 6. YEAR-ROUND EMPLOYMENT FOR OPPORTUNITY YOUTH.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts available under section 4(a)(2) 
that is not reserved under section 4(b), the Secretary of Labor shall, 
for the purpose of carrying out year-round employment programs under 
this section--
            (1) make an allotment in accordance with section 
        127(b)(1)(C)(ii) of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
        Act (29 U.S.C. 3162(b)(1)(C)(ii)) to each State that meets the 
        requirements of section 102 or 103 of such Act (29 U.S.C. 3112, 
        3113); and
            (2) reserve not more than one-quarter of 1 percent of such 
        amounts to provide assistance to the outlying areas.
    (b) Within State Allocations.--
            (1) In general.--The Governor of a State, in accordance 
        with the State plan developed under section 102 or 103 of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3112, 
        3113), shall allocate the amounts that are allotted to the 
        State under subsection (a)(1) to eligible local areas in 
        accordance with section 128(b)(2)(A) of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3163(b)(2)(A)) for 
        the purpose of carrying out year-round employment programs 
        under this section.
            (2) Local reservation.--Of the amounts allocated to a local 
        area under paragraph (1), not more than 7 percent of such 
        amounts may be used for the administrative costs of carrying 
        out a year-round employment program under this section, 
        including the costs of conducting outreach for such program.
    (c) Eligible Local Area.--In order for a local area to be eligible 
for funds under this section, the local board of the local area shall 
submit to the Governor a plan for the year-round employment program at 
such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
Governor may reasonably require. At a minimum, each plan shall be 
consistent with the local plan submitted by the local board under 
section 108 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
3123) and include--
            (1) a description of how the local area will carry out the 
        activities described in subsection (d);
            (2) the number of individuals expected to participate in 
        the year-round employment program;
            (3) a description of the services, including supportive 
        services, that the year-round employment program is expected to 
        provide;
            (4) an assurance that the year-round employment program 
        will be aligned with the youth services provided under the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et 
        seq.); and
            (5) an assurance that the local area will adhere to the 
        labor standards outlined in section 8.
    (d) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Youth participant eligibility.--To be eligible to 
        participate in activities carried out under this section during 
        any program year, an individual shall, at the time the 
        eligibility determination is made--
                    (A) be not younger than age 16 or older than age 
                24; and
                    (B) meet the definition of an out-of-school youth 
                and unemployed individual for a period of 120 days 
                preceding the date on which the eligibility 
                determination is made.
            (2) Program requirements.--The amounts allocated under this 
        section shall be used to carry out, for eligible youth, a year-
        round employment program that--
                    (A) matches each youth participant with an 
                appropriate employer, based on factors including the 
                needs of the employer and the age, skill, and informed 
                aspirations of the youth participant, for high-quality 
                year-round employment, which may not--
                            (i) be less than 180 days and not more than 
                        1 year;
                            (ii) pay less than the highest of the 
                        Federal, State, or local minimum wage; and
                            (iii) employ the youth participant for less 
                        than 20 hours per week;
                    (B) subsidizes not more than 80 percent of the 
                wages of each youth participant with the amounts 
                allocated under this section or other public, private, 
                or philanthropic funds;
                    (C) requires not less than 20 percent of the wages 
                of each youth participant to be paid by the employer;
                    (D) provides each employer with coaching and 
                mentoring on how to successfully employ each youth 
                participant in meaningful work;
                    (E) provides each youth participant with coaching 
                and mentoring to enhance the year-round employment and 
                facilitate the completion of the program;
                    (F) provides each youth participant who does not 
                complete the year-round employment with coaching and 
                mentoring to facilitate re-enrollment and completion of 
                the program;
                    (G) if applicable, provides each youth participant 
                with supportive services to facilitate participation in 
                the program;
                    (H) provides each youth participant with career 
                planning services to facilitate success after program 
                completion;
                    (I) develops a plan to create unsubsidized year-
                round employment opportunities, increase year-round 
                employment opportunities in the private sector, and 
                gradually increase the number of unsubsidized or partly 
                subsidized year-round employment opportunities;
                    (J) connects each youth participant with a provider 
                of youth, adult, and adult education and literacy 
                services under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
                Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.), including those provided 
                at one-stop centers; and
                    (K) provides each youth participant with high-
                quality financial literacy education, including 
                education on the use of credit and financing higher 
                education, and access to safe and affordable banking 
                accounts with consumer protections.
    (e) Program Priorities.--In allocating funds under this section, 
priority shall be given to--
            (1) year-round employment with employers who commit to 
        retaining, willing youth participants who meet pre-determined, 
        reasonable work performance standards for unsubsidized 
        employment for not less than 90 days after the end of the year-
        round employment; and
            (2) year-round employment--
                    (A) in existing or emerging in-demand industry 
                sectors or occupations; or
                    (B) that meet community needs in the public, 
                private, or nonprofit sector.
    (f) Performance Accountability.--For activities funded under this 
section, the primary indicators of performance shall include the 
performance metrics described in sections 116(b)(2)(A)(i)(III), 
116(b)(2)(A)(i)(V), and 116(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I)-(II) of the Workforce 
Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3141(b)(2)(A)(i)(III), 
3141(b)(2)(A)(i)(V), 3141(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I)-(II)) and a work-readiness 
indicator established by the local area or outlying area pursuant to 
any regulation or guideline issued by the Secretary of Labor.
    (g) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--For each year that a local area or 
        outlying area administers a year-round employment program under 
        this section, the local area or outlying area shall submit to 
        the Secretary of Labor and, if applicable, the State a report 
        on--
                    (A) the number of youth participants in the 
                program, including the number of in-school and out-of-
                school youth;
                    (B) the number of youth participants who completed 
                the year-round employment;
                    (C) the expenditures made from the amounts 
                allocated under this section, including any 
                expenditures made to provide youth participants with 
                supportive services;
                    (D) a description of the supportive services 
                offered to youth participants, including the number of 
                youth participants accessing such services;
                    (E) information specifying the levels of 
                performance achieved with respect to the primary 
                indicators of performance described in subsection (f) 
                for the program;
                    (F) the source and amount of funding for the wages 
                of each youth participant;
                    (G) the number of youth participants who are asked 
                to remain, and the number of youth participants 
                actually retained, after the end of the year-round 
                employment for not less than 90 days;
                    (H) the average number of hours worked per week and 
                the average amount of wages earned by youth 
                participants in the program; and
                    (I) any other information that the Secretary of 
                Labor determines necessary to monitor the effectiveness 
                of the program.
            (2) Disaggregation.--The information required to be 
        reported pursuant to subparagraphs (A), (B), and (E) of 
        paragraph (1) shall be disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, 
        age, and subpopulations described in section 
        129(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VI) of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3164(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VI)).

SEC. 7. CONNECTING-FOR-OPPORTUNITIES COMPETITIVE GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts available under section 4(a)(3) 
that is not reserved under section 4(b), the Secretary of Labor shall, 
in consultation with the Secretary of Education, award grants on a 
competitive basis to assist local community partnerships in improving 
high school graduation and youth employment rates.
    (b) Local Community Partnerships.--
            (1) Mandatory partners.--A local community partnership 
        shall include at a minimum--
                    (A) one unit of general local government;
                    (B) one local educational agency;
                    (C) one institution of higher education;
                    (D) one local workforce development board;
                    (E) one community-based organization;
                    (F) one public agency serving youth under the 
                jurisdiction of the juvenile justice system or criminal 
                justice system;
                    (G) a State or local child welfare agency; and
                    (H) an agency administering programs under part A 
                of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 601 
                et seq.).
            (2) Optional partners.--A local community partnership may 
        also include within the partnership--
                    (A) American job centers;
                    (B) employers or employer associations;
                    (C) representatives of labor organizations;
                    (D) programs that receive funding under the 
                Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act (42 
                U.S.C. 5601 et seq.);
                    (E) public agencies or community-based 
                organizations with expertise in providing counseling 
                services, including trauma-informed and gender-
                responsive counseling;
                    (F) public housing agencies, collaborative 
                applicants, as defined by the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
                Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11301 et seq.), or private 
                nonprofit organizations that serve homeless individuals 
                and households or foster youth; and
                    (G) and other appropriate State and local agencies.
    (c) Application.--A local community partnership desiring a grant 
under this section shall submit to the Secretary of Labor an 
application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
information as the Secretary may reasonably require. At a minimum, each 
application shall include a comprehensive plan that--
            (1) demonstrates sufficient need for the grant in the local 
        population (indicators of need may include high rates of high 
        school dropouts and youth unemployment and a high percentage or 
        number of low-income individuals in the local population);
            (2) demonstrates the capacity of each local community 
        partnership to carry out the activities described in subsection 
        (d);
            (3) is consistent with the local plan submitted by the 
        local board under section 108 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3123), the local plan for career and 
        technical education programs authorized under the Carl D. 
        Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 
        2301 et seq.) (if not part of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act local plan) and the State plan for programs 
        under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        601 et seq.); and
            (4) includes an assurance that the local community 
        partnership will adhere to the labor standards outlined in 
        section 8.
    (d) Use of Funds.--A local community partnership receiving a grant 
under this section shall use the grant funds--
            (1) to target individuals not younger than age 14 or older 
        than age 24;
            (2) to make appropriate use of existing education, child 
        welfare, social services, and workforce development data 
        collection systems to facilitate the local community 
        partnership's ability to target the individuals described in 
        paragraph (1);
            (3) to develop comprehensive pathways to higher education 
        and employment, including--
                    (A) using not less than 50 percent of the grant 
                funds to help individuals described in paragraph (1) 
                complete their secondary school education through 
                various alternative means, including through high-
                quality, flexible programs that utilize evidence-based 
                interventions and provide differentiated services (or 
                pathways) to students returning to education after 
                exiting secondary school without a regular high school 
                diploma or who, based on their grade or age, are 
                significantly off track to accumulate sufficient 
                academic credits to meet high school graduation 
                requirements, as established by the State;
                    (B) creating career pathways focused on paid work-
                based learning, consisting of on-the-job training and 
                classroom instruction, that will lead to credential 
                attainment, where appropriate, and prioritize 
                connections to registered apprenticeship programs and 
                pre-apprenticeship programs;
                    (C) finding and securing for individuals described 
                in paragraph (1) work-based learning opportunities that 
                pay not less than the highest of the Federal, State, or 
                local minimum wage;
                    (D) connecting individuals described in paragraph 
                (1) with providers of youth services (who will connect 
                the individuals to labor market information), adult 
                services, and adult education and literacy services, 
                under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
                U.S.C. 3101 et seq.), career planning services, and 
                federally funded programs that provide career 
                counseling and skills training; and
                    (E) ensuring that such individuals successfully 
                transition into pre-apprenticeship programs, registered 
                apprenticeship programs, or programs leading to 
                recognized postsecondary credentials in in-demand 
                industry sectors or occupations;
            (4) to provide a comprehensive system of support for the 
        individuals described in paragraph (1), including--
                    (A) connecting such individuals with professionals 
                who can--
                            (i) provide case management and counseling 
                        services; and
                            (ii) assist such individuals in--
                                    (I) developing achievable short-
                                term goals and long-term goals; and
                                    (II) overcoming any social, 
                                administrative, or financial barrier 
                                that may hinder the achievement of such 
                                goals; and
                    (B) providing or connecting participants with 
                available supportive services; and
            (5) to provide a comprehensive system aimed at preventing 
        the individuals described in paragraph (1) from disconnecting 
        from education, training, and employment and aimed at re-
        engaging any such individual who has been disconnected by--
                    (A) providing school-based dropout prevention and 
                community-based dropout recovery services, including 
                establishing or improving school district early warning 
                systems that--
                            (i) connect such systems to existing data 
                        gathering and reporting systems established 
                        under the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity 
                        Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) for the purpose of 
                        identifying the individuals described in 
                        paragraph (1); and
                            (ii) engage any such identified individual 
                        using targeted, evidence-based interventions to 
                        address the specific needs and issues of the 
                        individual, including chronic absenteeism; and
                    (B) providing the individuals described in 
                paragraph (1) with access to re-engagement services for 
                training programs and employment opportunities and 
                using providers of youth services under the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.) 
                to conduct intake and refer such individuals and their 
                families to the appropriate re-engagement service.
    (e) Priority in Awards.--In awarding grants under this section, the 
Secretary of Labor shall give priority to applications submitted by 
local community partnerships that include a comprehensive plan that--
            (1) serves and targets communities with a high percentage 
        or high numbers of low-income individuals and high rates of 
        high school dropouts and youth unemployment;
            (2) engages and involves other members of the household of 
        an individual described in paragraph (1) in the activities 
        described in subsection (d); and
            (3) allows the individuals described in paragraph (1) to 
        earn academic credit through various means, including high-
        quality career and technical education, dual enrollment 
        programs, or work-based learning, such as apprenticeship 
        certificates evaluated by a recognized third party.
    (f) Performance Accountability.--For activities funded under this 
section, the primary indicators of performance shall include--
            (1) the performance metrics described in sections 
        116(b)(2)(A)(i)(III)-(V) and 116(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I)-(II) of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3141(b)(2)(A)(i)(III)-(V), 3141 (b)(2)(A)(ii)(I)-(II));
            (2) the four-year adjusted cohort graduation rate and the 
        extended-year adjusted cohort graduation rate in a State that 
        chooses to use such a graduation rate, as defined in section 
        8101(25) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, 
        as amended; and
            (3) the rate of attaining a recognized equivalent of a 
        diploma, such as a general equivalency diploma.
    (g) Reports.--For each year that a local community partnership 
administers a program under this section, the local community 
partnership shall submit to the Secretary of Labor and, if applicable, 
the State a report on--
            (1) the number of youth participants in the program, 
        including the number of in-school and out-of-school youth, 
        disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, age, and subpopulations 
        described in section 129(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VII) of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3164(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VII));
            (2) the expenditures made from the amounts allocated under 
        this section, including any expenditures made to provide youth 
        participants with supportive services;
            (3) a description of the supportive services offered to 
        youth participants, including the number of youth participants 
        accessing such services;
            (4) information specifying the levels of performance 
        achieved with respect to the primary indicators of performance 
        described in subsection (f) for the program, disaggregated by 
        race, ethnicity, sex, age, and subpopulations described in 
        section 129(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VII) of the Workforce Innovation 
        and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3164(a)(1)(B)(iii)(I)-(VII)); 
        and
            (5) any other information that the Secretary of Labor 
        determines necessary to monitor the effectiveness of the 
        program.

SEC. 8. LABOR STANDARDS.

    The following standards shall apply to each program administered 
under this Act:
            (1) A youth participant in a program administered under 
        this Act may not displace any currently employed worker 
        (including a partial displacement, such as a reduction in the 
        hours of non-overtime work, wages, or employment benefits).
            (2) A program administered under this Act may not impair 
        any existing contract for services or collective bargaining 
        agreement, and may not undertake any activity that would be 
        inconsistent with the terms of a collective bargaining 
        agreement without the written concurrence of the labor 
        organization and employer concerned.
            (3) A youth participant in a program administered under 
        this Act may not be employed in a job if--
                    (A) any other individual is on layoff, including 
                any employee with recall rights, from the same or any 
                substantially equivalent job;
                    (B) the vacancy is due to a strike or lockout;
                    (C) the employer has terminated the employment of 
                any employee or otherwise reduced the workforce of the 
                employer with the intention of filling the vacancy so 
                created with the youth participant; or
                    (D) the job is created in a promotional line that 
                will infringe in any way upon the promotional 
                opportunities of any currently employed worker.
            (4) An entity administering a program under this Act shall 
        establish and maintain a grievance procedure to resolve any 
        complaint of an alleged violation of this displacement rule. 
        This regulation may not preempt or supersede any State or local 
        law providing greater protections for employees against 
        displacement.
            (5) Each recipient of funds under this Act shall provide to 
        the Secretary of Labor assurances that no amounts from such 
        funds will be used to assist, promote, or deter labor union 
        organizing and collective bargaining.
            (6) A youth participant in on-the-job training or employed 
        in a program administered under this Act shall be provided 
        benefits and working conditions at the same level and to the 
        same extent as other trainees or employees working a similar 
        length of time and doing the same type of work.
            (7) An entity administering a program under this Act must 
        take affirmative steps to ensure that it provides equal access 
        to favorable opportunities for youth participants without 
        regard to their race, ethnicity, color, national origin, sex, 
        religion, creed, sexual orientation, gender identity, veteran 
        status, military status, parenting status, disability, or 
        genetic information.

SEC. 9. PRIVACY.

    Nothing in this Act--
            (1) shall be construed to supersede the privacy protections 
        afforded parents and students under section 444 of the General 
        Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g); or
            (2) shall be construed to permit the development of a 
        national database of personally identifiable information on 
        individuals receiving services under this Act.

SEC. 10. EVALUATION AND REPORTS.

    (a) Evaluation.--Not earlier than 1 year or later than 2 years 
after the end of the award grant period, the Secretary of Labor shall 
conduct an evaluation of the programs administered under this Act.
    (b) Reports to Congress.--The Secretary of Labor shall transmit to 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate not later than 5 years after the end of the 
award grant period, a final report on the results of the evaluation 
conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 11. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) ESEA terms.--The terms ``extended-year adjusted cohort 
        graduation rate'', ``evidence-based'', ``four-year adjusted 
        cohort graduation rate'', ``local educational agency'', and 
        ``secondary school'' have the meanings given such terms in 
        section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1001).
            (3) Registered apprenticeship program.--The term 
        ``registered apprenticeship program'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 171(b) of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3226(b)).
            (4) Other wioa terms.--The terms ``administrative costs'', 
        ``career and technical education'', ``career pathway'', 
        ``career planning'', ``community-based organization'', 
        ``Governor'', ``in-demand industry sector or occupation'', 
        ``in-school youth'', ``local area'', ``local board'', ``low-
        income individual'', ``one-stop center'', ``on-the-job 
        training'', ``outlying area'', ``out-of-school youth'', 
        ``school dropout'', ``State'', ``supportive services'', 
        ``unemployed individual'', and ``unit of general local 
        government'' have the meanings given such terms in section 3 of 
        the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
                                 <all>
