[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2398 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2398

To provide benefits and services to workers who have lost their jobs or 
have experienced a reduction in wages or hours due to the transition to 
clean energy, to amend the National Labor Relations Act to establish an 
  efficient system to enable employees to form, join, or assist labor 
                 organizations, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           December 10, 2015

  Mr. Sanders introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
                  referred to the Committee on Finance

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To provide benefits and services to workers who have lost their jobs or 
have experienced a reduction in wages or hours due to the transition to 
clean energy, to amend the National Labor Relations Act to establish an 
  efficient system to enable employees to form, join, or assist labor 
                 organizations, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Clean Energy 
Worker Just Transition Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
                 TITLE I--ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

                    Subtitle A--Group Certification

Sec. 101. Petitions.
Sec. 102. Group eligibility requirements.
Sec. 103. Determinations and certifications.
Sec. 104. Subpoena power.
Sec. 105. Judicial review.
     Subtitle B--Individual Applications; Termination of Assistance

Sec. 111. Adjustment assistance.
Sec. 112. Termination of adjustment assistance.
         Subtitle C--Federally Funded Unemployment Compensation

Sec. 121. Temporary additional unemployment compensation program for 
                            certain adversely affected workers.
Sec. 122. Permanent State requirement for the provision of additional 
                            unemployment compensation for certain 
                            adversely affected workers.
                Subtitle D--Other Benefits and Services

Sec. 131. Eligibility for premium subsidy credit and cost sharing 
                            benefits for health insurance.
Sec. 132. Training and support for employment.
Sec. 133. Additional pensions benefits.
                          Subtitle E--Funding

Sec. 141. Establishment of clean energy workers trust fund.
Sec. 142. Modifications to rules relating to inverted corporations.
                  Subtitle F--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 151. Credit for hiring unemployed certified adversely affected 
                            workers.
Sec. 152. Enforcement.
Sec. 153. Benefit information to workers.
Sec. 154. Amendment to Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 
                            1977.
Sec. 155. Regulations.
                   TITLE II--WORKPLACE DEMOCRACY ACT

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Streamlining certification for labor organizations.
Sec. 203. Facilitating initial collective bargaining agreements.
 TITLE III--COMMUNITY NEED-BASED ECONOMIC TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

Sec. 301. Community need-based economic transition assistance program.
Sec. 302. Economic development grant programs.
Sec. 303. Need-based water, broadband, and electric grid infrastructure 
                            investment program.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Adversely affected employment.--The term ``adversely 
        affected employment'' means employment in an applicable firm.
            (2) Adversely affected worker.--The term ``adversely 
        affected worker'' means an individual who, because of lack of 
        work in adversely affected employment, has been totally or 
        partially separated from such employment, or has been 
        threatened to be totally or partially separated from such 
        employment.
            (3) Adjustment assistance.--The term ``adjustment 
        assistance'' means any compensation, credit, benefit, funding, 
        training, or service provided under this title through any 
        option described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of section 
        111(b).
            (4) Applicable firm.--The term ``applicable firm'' means, 
        as applicable--
                    (A) the firm, or subdivision of a firm, for which 
                the group of workers who are petitioning for 
                certification under section 101 work;
                    (B) the firm, or subdivision of a firm, for which a 
                group of certified adversely affected workers work;
                    (C) a group of firms within close geographic 
                proximity, as determined by the Secretary, for which a 
                group of workers who are petitioning for certification 
                under section 101 work; or
                    (D) a group of firms within a close geographic 
                proximity, as determined by the Secretary, for which a 
                group of certified adversely affected workers work.
            (5) Certified adversely affected worker.--The term 
        ``certified adversely affected worker'' means an adversely 
        affected worker covered by a certification issued under section 
        103(a)(2).
            (6) Certified or recognized labor organization.--The term 
        ``certified or recognized labor organization'' means a labor 
        organization that is certified or recognized under section 9 of 
        the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 159) as the 
        representative of the workers involved.
            (7) Energy industry.--The term ``energy industry'' means a 
        commercial sector, as determined by the Secretary, that--
                    (A) extracts, transports, or uses as a direct input 
                energy resources or electricity; or
                    (B) is otherwise dependent on the generation or 
                consumption of energy resources or electricity.
            (8) Partial separation.--The term ``partial separation'' 
        means, with respect to an individual who has not been totally 
        separated, that such individual has experienced--
                    (A) a reduction in hours of work to 80 percent or 
                less of the individual's average weekly hours in 
                adversely affected employment; and
                    (B) a reduction in wages to 80 percent or less of 
                the individual's average weekly wage in such adversely 
                affected employment.
            (9) Partially separated.--The term ``partially separated'' 
        means, with respect to an individual who has not been totally 
        separated, that such individual is experiencing partial 
        separation.
            (10) Rapid response activity.--The term ``rapid response 
        activity'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102) 
        except that--
                    (A) a reference in such section to a State shall be 
                considered to be a reference to the Secretary; and
                    (B) the reference in such section to funds shall be 
                considered to be a reference to funds reserved by the 
                Secretary under section 132(b)(1).
            (11) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Labor.
            (12) Threatened.--The term ``threatened'', with respect to 
        total or partial separation, means that an individual is aware 
        of imminent total or partial separation from employment with an 
        applicable firm or with a company with which the applicable 
        firm is contracted to provide goods or services.
            (13) Total separation.--The term ``total separation'' means 
        the layoff or severance of an individual from employment with 
        an applicable firm.
            (14) Totally separated.--The term ``totally separated'' 
        means, with respect to an individual, that such individual is 
        experiencing total separation.

                 TITLE I--ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

                    Subtitle A--Group Certification

SEC. 101. PETITIONS.

    (a) In General.--A petition for a group of workers to be certified 
under section 103 for eligibility to apply for adjustment assistance 
may be submitted to the Secretary by any of the following:
            (1) Not less than 3 workers on behalf of the group of 
        workers petitioning for such certification.
            (2) A certified or recognized labor organization, or any 
        other duly authorized representative of such workers (as 
        determined by the Secretary), representing not less than 3 of 
        the workers in the group.
            (3) The applicable firm.
    (b) Actions by the Secretary.--Upon receipt of a petition submitted 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) ensure that rapid response activities and appropriate 
        career services (as described in section 134 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174)) authorized 
        under other Federal laws are made available to the workers 
        covered by the petition to the extent authorized under such 
        laws;
            (2) verify the information included in the petition; and
            (3) publish notice in the Federal Register and on the Web 
        site of the Department of Labor that the Secretary has received 
        such petition and has initiated an investigation into whether 
        the group of workers shall be certified under section 103.
    (c) Hearing.--
            (1) In general.--If an individual who submits a petition 
        under subsection (a), or any other individual determined by the 
        Secretary to have a substantial interest in the outcome of the 
        Secretary's decision regarding certification under section 103, 
        submits a request for a hearing in accordance with paragraph 
        (2), the Secretary shall--
                    (A) provide for a public hearing; and
                    (B) afford such individual an opportunity to be 
                present, produce evidence, and be heard.
            (2) Submission.--The request under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted to the Secretary not later than 10 days after the 
        date on which the Secretary publishes notice in the Federal 
        Register under subsection (b)(3).

SEC. 102. GROUP ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Criteria.--
            (1) In general.--A group of workers shall be certified by 
        the Secretary as eligible to apply for adjustment assistance 
        pursuant to a petition filed under section 101, if the 
        Secretary determines that--
                    (A) such petition covers not less than 3 workers 
                who are similarly situated as--
                            (i) workers who work or have worked for the 
                        same applicable firm;
                            (ii) workers who are totally or partially 
                        separated, or threatened to be totally or 
                        partially separated, due to the same local or 
                        regional circumstance; or
                            (iii) workers who are serviced by the same 
                        one-stop center described in section 121 of the 
                        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
                        U.S.C. 3151);
                    (B) such workers are workers who work in an 
                industry that is a qualifying industry, determined 
                under paragraph (2);
                    (C) a significant number or proportion of the 
                workers working for the applicable firm have become 
                totally or partially separated or are threatened to 
                become totally or partially separated;
                    (D)(i) sales or production of the applicable firm 
                have decreased absolutely;
                    (ii) the applicable firm has been closed, 
                relocated, or acquired from another entity or foreign 
                country; or
                    (iii) the sales, production, or services of the 
                applicable firm have caused a shift that has 
                contributed to the total or partial separation, or 
                threatened total or partial separation, of such 
                workers; and
                    (E) the total or partial separation, threatened 
                total or partial separation, or any of the actions 
                described in subparagraph (D), are directly 
                attributable to--
                            (i) actions by the Federal Government;
                            (ii) the low cost of competing alternative 
                        forms of energy; or
                            (iii) other reasons as determined by the 
                        Secretary.
            (2) Qualifying industry.--
                    (A) Initial period.--For any group filing a 
                petition under section 101 on a date that is during the 
                period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act 
                and ending on the date that is 5 years after such date 
                of enactment, a qualifying industry shall be a coal-
                related or coal-dependent industry, as determined by 
                the Secretary.
                    (B) Subsequent years.--
                            (i) System.--For any group filing a 
                        petition under section 101 on a date that is 
                        after the 5-year period described in 
                        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall establish 
                        a system in accordance with this subparagraph 
                        for determining industries (in addition to the 
                        coal-related or coal-dependent industry) to add 
                        as qualifying industries.
                            (ii) Qualifications.--To be added as a 
                        qualifying industry under clause (i), an 
                        industry shall be--
                                    (I) an energy industry; and
                                    (II) an industry for which the 
                                Secretary, in consultation with the 
                                Secretary of Commerce, has determined 
                                that, during the 5-year period 
                                preceding the Secretary's determination 
                                under this subparagraph, not less than 
                                20 percent of the workers in such 
                                industry are totally or partially 
                                separated or are threatened to become 
                                totally or partially separated.
                            (iii) Timing.--On the date that is 5 years 
                        after the date of enactment of this Act, and 
                        each year thereafter, the Secretary, in 
                        consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, 
                        shall determine if any industry meets the 
                        qualifications under clause (ii) and add any 
                        such industry as a qualifying industry.
                    (C) Indefinitely qualified.--Notwithstanding any 
                other provision in this paragraph, an industry that is 
                a qualifying industry, under subparagraph (A) or 
                subparagraph (B), shall indefinitely remain a 
                qualifying industry.
    (b) Basis for Secretary's Determinations.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall, in determining 
        whether to certify a group of workers under section 103, obtain 
        from the workers, the applicable firm, or a customer of the 
        applicable firm, information the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary to make such certification, through questionnaires 
        and in any other manner that the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
            (2) Standards; criteria.--The Secretary shall establish--
                    (A) standards, including data requirements, to 
                investigate petitions filed under section 101; and
                    (B) criteria for making determinations under 
                section 103.
            (3) Additional information.--The Secretary may seek 
        additional information to determine whether to certify a group 
        of workers--
                    (A) by contacting--
                            (i) officials or workers of the applicable 
                        firm;
                            (ii) officials of a certified or recognized 
                        labor organization or other duly authorized 
                        representative of the group of workers;
                            (iii) State or regional departments of 
                        labor, energy, the environment, economic 
                        development, or commerce or that regulate 
                        utilities; or
                            (iv) the Administrator of the Environmental 
                        Protection Agency, the Secretary of Energy, the 
                        Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, the 
                        United States Army Corps of Engineers, the 
                        Secretary of the Interior, the United States 
                        Geological Survey, the Secretary of 
                        Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, or the 
                        Secretary of the Treasury, as applicable; and
                    (B) by using any other available sources of 
                information.
            (4) Verification of information.--
                    (A) Certification.--The Secretary shall require the 
                worker, applicable firm, or a customer of such firm to 
                certify--
                            (i) all information obtained under 
                        paragraph (1) through questionnaires; and
                            (ii) all other information obtained under 
                        paragraph (1) from such worker, firm, or 
                        customer on which the Secretary relies in 
                        making a determination under section 103, 
                        unless the Secretary has a reasonable basis for 
                        determining that such information is accurate 
                        and complete without being certified.
                    (B) Use of subpoenas.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), if a worker, applicable firm, or 
                        customer of such firm fails to provide 
                        information requested by the Secretary under 
                        paragraph (1) within 20 days after the date of 
                        such request, the Secretary shall obtain such 
                        information by subpoena in accordance with 
                        section 104.
                            (ii) Exception.--The requirement under 
                        clause (i) shall not apply if the worker, 
                        applicable firm, or customer of such firm 
                        demonstrates to the satisfaction of the 
                        Secretary that such worker, firm, or customer 
                        will provide the information within a 
                        reasonable period of time.
                    (C) Protection of confidential information.--
                            (i) In general.--The Secretary may not 
                        release information obtained under paragraph 
                        (1) that the Secretary considers to be 
                        confidential business information or personally 
                        identifiable information unless the worker, 
                        applicable firm, or customer whose information 
                        is at issue had notice, at the time of 
                        submission, that the information would be 
                        released by the Secretary, or such worker, 
                        applicable firm, or customer subsequently 
                        consents to the release of the information.
                            (ii) Exception.--Nothing in this 
                        subparagraph shall be construed to prohibit the 
                        Secretary from providing the confidential 
                        business information described in clause (i) to 
                        a court in camera or to another party under a 
                        protective order issued by a court.

SEC. 103. DETERMINATIONS AND CERTIFICATIONS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as possible after the date on which a 
petition is filed under section 101 and, subject to subsection (e), not 
later than 40 days after that date, the Secretary shall--
            (1) determine whether the petitioning group meets the 
        requirements under section 102(a); and
            (2) issue a certification of eligibility to apply for 
        adjustment assistance covering the workers in any group which 
        meets such requirements.
    (b) Date of Separation.--Each certification issued under subsection 
(a)(2) shall specify the date on which the total or partial separation 
began or threatened to begin.
    (c) Publication.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 5 days after reaching a 
        determination on a petition filed under section 101, the 
        Secretary shall publish a summary of the determination in the 
        Federal Register and on the Web site of the Department of 
        Labor, together with the Secretary's reasons for making such 
        determination.
            (2) Limitation on personal information.--The publication 
        under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) shall not include any personal information, 
                including names, of workers certified; and
                    (B) may include information regarding the 
                applicable firm.
    (d) Termination of Certification.--Whenever the Secretary 
determines, with respect to any certification of eligibility of the 
workers of an applicable firm, that total or partial separations, or 
threatened total or partial separations, from such firm are no longer 
attributable to the factors described in subparagraph (E) of section 
102(a), the Secretary shall--
            (1) terminate such certification; and
            (2) promptly have notice of such termination, and the 
        reasons for such termination, published in the Federal Register 
        and on the Web site of the Department of Labor.
    (e) Extension.--The Secretary may have an extension for completing 
the determination or issuance under subsection (a) if any individual 
fails to comply with the requirements for providing information under 
section 102(b).

SEC. 104. SUBPOENA POWER.

    (a) In General.--In the case described in section 102(b)(4)(B), the 
Secretary may require by subpoena the attendance of witnesses and the 
production of evidence necessary for the Secretary to make a 
determination under section 103.
    (b) Contumacy.--If a person refuses to obey a subpoena issued under 
subsection (a), a United States district court within the jurisdiction 
of which the relevant proceeding under this Act is conducted may, upon 
petition by the Secretary, issue an order requiring compliance with 
such subpoena.

SEC. 105. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    A denial of a certification under section 103 shall be subject to 
judicial review in accordance with chapter 7 of title 5, United States 
Code.

     Subtitle B--Individual Applications; Termination of Assistance

SEC. 111. ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--In accordance with this subtitle, the Secretary 
shall award adjustment assistance for a calendar year to any individual 
who--
            (1) submits an application for an adjustment assistance 
        option under any of paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection 
        (b) to the Secretary in a manner determined by the Secretary;
            (2) is determined by the Secretary to be a certified 
        adversely affected worker as of the date on which such 
        individual submits the application; and
            (3) meets all requirements under this section with respect 
        to the applicable adjustment assistance option.
    (b) Options.--For a calendar year, an individual may apply for 
adjustment assistance under not more than 1 of the following options:
            (1) Option a.--Option A shall consist of adjustment 
        assistance that is--
                    (A) federally funded unemployment compensation 
                under subtitle C, and the amendments made by such 
                subtitle;
                    (B) premium subsidy credits and cost sharing 
                benefits for health insurance under section 131, and 
                the amendments made by such section; and
                    (C) additional pension benefits under section 133, 
                and the amendment made by such section.
            (2) Option b.--Option B shall consist of adjustment 
        assistance that is--
                    (A)(i) funding in an amount equal to the cost of 
                attendance, as defined in section 472 of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087ll), for a program 
                of education or training of not more than 4 years at a 
                public institution of higher education, as defined in 
                section 102 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 1002), subject to 
                paragraph (4); or
                    (ii)(I) training services and appropriate career 
                services under section 132;
                    (II) job search allowances and relocation 
                allowances under section 132, for individuals who meet 
                the requirements under subsections (d) and (e) of 
                section 132, respectively; and
                    (III) an amount for living expenses that is based 
                upon, and calculated in the same manner, as the cost of 
                attendance, as defined in such section 472, for the 
                training services and career services, subject to 
                paragraph (4); and
                    (B) premium subsidy credits and cost sharing 
                benefits for health insurance under section 131, and 
                the amendments made by such section, and additional 
                pension benefits under section 133, and the amendment 
                made by such section.
            (3) Option c.--Option C shall--
                    (A) be for an individual who is 62 years of age or 
                older on the date on which such individual submits an 
                application under subsection (a) and--
                            (i) retires from the adversely affected 
                        employment not later than 120 days after the 
                        date on which such individual becomes a 
                        certified adversely affected worker; or
                            (ii) in the case of an individual whose 
                        adversely affected employment was at an 
                        applicable firm that is no longer capable of 
                        providing the full retirement pension and 
                        health care benefits as promised, has retired 
                        prior to the date on which such individual 
                        becomes a certified adversely affected worker; 
                        and
                    (B) consist of adjustment assistance that is--
                            (i) the premium subsidy credits and cost 
                        sharing benefits for health insurance under 
                        section 131, and the amendments made by such 
                        section; and
                            (ii) additional pension benefits under 
                        section 133, and the amendment made by such 
                        section.
            (4) Special rule.--Any amount provided for the cost of 
        attendance of a program of education or training under 
        paragraph (2)(A)(i), or for living expenses related to training 
        services under paragraph (2)(A)(ii), shall be reduced by any 
        amount provided toward such cost of attendance or living 
        expenses under section 132, section 401 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a), or any other Federal grant 
        assistance program.
    (c) Reapplication Process.--An individual who has received 
adjustment assistance for a calendar year shall reapply for such 
assistance for any subsequent calendar year subject to subsection (d).
    (d) Limitations.--
            (1) Option a.--An individual may receive adjustment 
        assistance under subsection (b)(1) for not more than 3 years.
            (2) Option b.--An individual may receive adjustment 
        assistance under subsection (b)(2) for not more than 4 years.
    (e) Flexibility in Options.--During a calendar year, an individual 
receiving adjustment assistance under an option under subsection (b) 
may terminate adjustment assistance under that option and apply to 
receive adjustment assistance under a different option under such 
subsection.

SEC. 112. TERMINATION OF ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Notification of Comparable Benefits.--Not later than 60 days 
after obtaining comparable benefits, an individual receiving adjustment 
assistance shall notify the Secretary of such comparable benefits.
    (b) Termination.--Any adjustment assistance provided to an 
individual under this title shall terminate not later than 60 days 
after the date on which such individual obtains comparable benefits.
    (c) Comparable Benefits Defined.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``comparable benefits'' means benefits that provide the individual 
with not less than 90 percent of the salary, pension benefits, and 
health care benefits provided to the individual by the applicable firm 
immediately prior to the individual becoming an adversely affected 
worker.

         Subtitle C--Federally Funded Unemployment Compensation

SEC. 121. TEMPORARY ADDITIONAL UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION PROGRAM FOR 
              CERTAIN ADVERSELY AFFECTED WORKERS.

    (a) Federal-State Agreements.--Any State that desires to do so may 
enter into and participate in an agreement under this section with the 
Secretary. Any State that is a party to an agreement under this section 
may, upon providing 30 days' written notice to the Secretary, terminate 
such agreement.
    (b) Provisions of Agreement.--
            (1) In general.--Any agreement under subsection (a) shall 
        provide that the State agency of the State will make payments 
        of temporary additional unemployment compensation to applicable 
        individuals who--
                    (A) have exhausted all rights to regular 
                compensation under the State law or under Federal law 
                with respect to a benefit year;
                    (B) have no rights to regular compensation with 
                respect to a week under such law or any other State 
                unemployment compensation law or to compensation under 
                any other Federal law;
                    (C) are not receiving compensation with respect to 
                such week under the unemployment compensation law of 
                Canada; and
                    (D) are able to work, available to work, and 
                actively seeking work.
            (2) Exhaustion of benefits.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1)(A), an applicable individual shall be deemed to have 
        exhausted such individual's rights to regular compensation 
        under a State law when--
                    (A) no payments of regular compensation can be made 
                under such law because such individual has received all 
                regular compensation available to such individual based 
                on employment or wages during such individual's base 
                period; or
                    (B) such individual's rights to such compensation 
                have been terminated by reason of the expiration of the 
                benefit year with respect to which such rights existed.
            (3) Weekly benefit amount, etc.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to paragraph (4), for 
                purposes of any agreement under this section--
                            (i) the amount of temporary additional 
                        unemployment compensation that shall be payable 
                        to any applicable individual for any week of 
                        total unemployment shall be equal to the amount 
                        of the regular compensation (including 
                        dependents' allowances) payable to such 
                        individual during such individual's benefit 
                        year under the State law for a week of total 
                        unemployment;
                            (ii) subject to subparagraph (B), the terms 
                        and conditions of the State law which apply to 
                        claims for regular compensation and to the 
                        payment thereof (including terms and conditions 
                        relating to availability for work, active 
                        search for work, and refusal to accept work) 
                        shall apply to claims for temporary additional 
                        unemployment compensation and the payment 
                        thereof, except--
                                    (I) that an applicable individual 
                                shall not be eligible for temporary 
                                additional unemployment compensation 
                                unless, in the base period with respect 
                                to which such individual exhausted all 
                                rights to regular compensation under 
                                the State law, such individual had 20 
                                weeks of full-time insured employment 
                                or the equivalent in insured wages, as 
                                determined under the provisions of the 
                                State law implementing section 
                                202(a)(5) of the Federal-State Extended 
                                Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 
                                (26 U.S.C. 3304 note); and
                                    (II) where otherwise inconsistent 
                                with the provisions of this section or 
                                with the regulations or operating 
                                instructions of the Secretary 
                                promulgated to carry out this section; 
                                and
                            (iii) the maximum amount of temporary 
                        additional unemployment compensation payable to 
                        any applicable individual is 156 weeks.
                    (B) Exception.--Under an agreement under this 
                section, temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                shall not be denied under subparagraph (A) to an 
                applicable individual for any week by reason of a 
                failure to accept an offer of, or apply for, work if 
                the work does not provide for comparable benefits (as 
                defined in section 112(c)).
            (4) No new benefit year.--In determining the amount under 
        paragraph (3), a State shall not establish a new benefit year 
        with respect to applicable individuals.
            (5) Coordination rule.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
        of Federal law (and if the State law permits), the Governor of 
        a State that is in an extended benefit period may provide for 
        the payment of emergency unemployment compensation prior to 
        temporary additional unemployment compensation to applicable 
        individuals who otherwise meet the requirements of this 
        section.
            (6) Unauthorized aliens ineligible.--A State shall require 
        as a condition of temporary additional unemployment 
        compensation that each alien who receives such compensation 
        must be legally authorized to work in the United States, as 
        defined for purposes of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (26 
        U.S.C. 3301 et seq.). In determining whether an alien meets the 
        requirements of this subsection, a State must follow the 
        procedures provided in section 1137(d) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-7(d)).
    (c) Payments to States.--
            (1) In general.--
                    (A) Full reimbursement.--There shall be paid to 
                each State which has entered into an agreement under 
                this section an amount equal to 100 percent of--
                            (i) the total amount of additional weeks of 
                        temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                        paid to applicable individuals by the State 
                        pursuant to such agreement; and
                            (ii) any additional administrative expenses 
                        incurred by the State by reason of such 
                        agreement (as determined by the Secretary).
                    (B) Terms of payments.--Sums payable to any State 
                by reason of such State's having an agreement under 
                this section shall be payable, either in advance or by 
                way of reimbursement (as determined by the Secretary), 
                in such amounts as the Secretary estimates the State 
                will be entitled to receive under this section for a 
                period, reduced or increased, as the case may be, by 
                any amount by which the Secretary finds that his 
                estimates for any prior period were greater or less 
                than the amounts which should have been paid to the 
                State. Such estimates may be made on the basis of such 
                statistical, sampling, or other method as may be agreed 
                upon by the Secretary and the State agency of the State 
                involved.
            (2) Certifications.--The Secretary shall from time to time 
        certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for payment to each 
        State the sums payable to such State under this section.
            (3) Funding.--Payments to States under an agreement under 
        this section shall be made from the Trust Fund established 
        under section 141.
    (d) Fraud and Overpayments.--
            (1) In general.--If an individual knowingly has made, or 
        caused to be made by another, a false statement or 
        representation of a material fact, or knowingly has failed, or 
        caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as a 
        result of such false statement or representation or of such 
        nondisclosure such individual has received an amount of 
        temporary additional unemployment compensation to which such 
        individual was not entitled, such individual--
                    (A) shall be ineligible for further temporary 
                additional unemployment compensation in accordance with 
                the provisions of the applicable State unemployment 
                compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a 
                claim for unemployment compensation; and
                    (B) shall be subject to prosecution under section 
                1001 of title 18, United States Code.
            (2) Repayment.--In the case of individuals who have 
        received amounts of temporary additional unemployment 
        compensation to which they were not entitled, the State shall 
        require such individuals to repay the amounts of such temporary 
        additional unemployment compensation to the State agency, 
        except that the State agency may waive such repayment if it 
        determines that--
                    (A) the payment of such temporary additional 
                unemployment compensation was without fault on the part 
                of any such individual; and
                    (B) such repayment would be contrary to equity and 
                good conscience.
            (3) Recovery by state agency.--
                    (A) In general.--The State agency shall recover the 
                amount to be repaid, or any part thereof, by deductions 
                from any temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                payable to such individual under this section or from 
                any unemployment compensation payable to such 
                individual under any State or Federal unemployment 
                compensation law administered by the State agency or 
                under any other State or Federal law administered by 
                the State agency which provides for the payment of any 
                assistance or allowance with respect to any week of 
                unemployment, during the 3-year period after the date 
                such individual received the payment of the temporary 
                additional unemployment compensation to which the 
                individual was not entitled, in accordance with the 
                same procedures as apply to the recovery of 
                overpayments of regular unemployment benefits paid by 
                the State.
                    (B) Opportunity for hearing.--No repayment shall be 
                required, and no deduction shall be made, until a 
                determination has been made, notice thereof and an 
                opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the 
                individual, and the determination has become final.
            (4) Review.--Any determination by a State agency under this 
        subsection shall be subject to review in the same manner and to 
        the same extent as determinations under the State unemployment 
        compensation law, and only in that manner and to that extent.
    (e) Applicability.--
            (1) In general.--An agreement entered into under this 
        section shall apply to weeks of unemployment--
                    (A) beginning after the date on which such 
                agreement is entered into; and
                    (B) ending on or before January 1, 2019.
            (2) Termination.--No temporary additional unemployment 
        compensation under this section shall be payable for any week 
        subsequent to the last week described in paragraph (1)(B).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Applicable individual.--The term ``applicable 
        individual'' means, with respect to a week of temporary 
        additional unemployment compensation, an individual who--
                    (A) is a certified adversely affected worker (as 
                defined in section 2) for such week; and
                    (B) has been awarded adjustment assistance for 
                option A under section 111(b) for such week.
            (2) EB program definitions.--The terms ``compensation'', 
        ``regular compensation'', ``extended compensation'', ``benefit 
        year'', ``base period'', ``State'', ``State agency'', ``State 
        law'', and ``week'' have the respective meanings given such 
        terms under section 205 of the Federal-State Extended 
        Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).

SEC. 122. PERMANENT STATE REQUIREMENT FOR THE PROVISION OF ADDITIONAL 
              UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR CERTAIN ADVERSELY AFFECTED 
              WORKERS.

    (a) Unemployment Compensation.--Chapter 23 of subtitle C of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) in section 3304(a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (18), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraph (19) as paragraph 
                (20); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (18) the following 
                new paragraph:
            ``(19) additional unemployment compensation for applicable 
        individuals shall be payable as provided in section 3312; 
        and''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 3312. ADDITIONAL UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR CERTAIN ADVERSELY 
              AFFECTED WORKERS.

    ``(a) Additional Unemployment Compensation.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For purposes of section 
                3304(a)(19), a State law shall provide that payment of 
                additional unemployment compensation shall be made to 
                applicable individuals who--
                            ``(i) have exhausted all rights to regular 
                        compensation under the State law or under 
                        Federal law with respect to a benefit year;
                            ``(ii) have no rights to regular 
                        compensation with respect to a week under such 
                        law or any other State unemployment 
                        compensation law or to compensation under any 
                        other Federal law;
                            ``(iii) are not receiving compensation with 
                        respect to such week under the unemployment 
                        compensation law of Canada; and
                            ``(iv) are able to work, available to work, 
                        and actively seeking work.
                    ``(B) Exception.--Additional unemployment 
                compensation shall not be denied under subparagraph (A) 
                to an applicable individual for any week by reason of a 
                failure to accept an offer of, or apply for, work if 
                the work does not provide for comparable benefits (as 
                defined in section 112(c) of the Clean Energy Worker 
                Just Transition Act).
            ``(2) Exhaustion of benefits.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (1)(A), an applicable individual shall be deemed to have 
        exhausted such individual's rights to regular compensation 
        under a State law when--
                    ``(A) no payments of regular compensation can be 
                made under such law because such individual has 
                received all regular compensation available to such 
                individual based on employment or wages during such 
                individual's base period; or
                    ``(B) such individual's rights to such compensation 
                have been terminated by reason of the expiration of the 
                benefit year with respect to which such rights existed.
            ``(3) Weekly benefit amount, etc.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to paragraph (4), for 
                purposes of this section--
                            ``(i) the amount of additional unemployment 
                        compensation which shall be payable to any 
                        applicable individual for any week of total 
                        unemployment shall be equal to the amount of 
                        the regular compensation (including dependents' 
                        allowances) payable to such individual during 
                        such individual's benefit year under the State 
                        law for a week of total unemployment;
                            ``(ii) the terms and conditions of the 
                        State law which apply to claims for regular 
                        compensation and to the payment thereof 
                        (including terms and conditions relating to 
                        availability for work, active search for work, 
                        and refusal to accept work) shall apply to 
                        claims for additional unemployment compensation 
                        and the payment thereof, except--
                                    ``(I) that an applicable individual 
                                shall not be eligible for additional 
                                unemployment compensation unless, in 
                                the base period with respect to which 
                                such individual exhausted all rights to 
                                regular compensation under the State 
                                law, such individual had 20 weeks of 
                                full-time insured employment or the 
                                equivalent in insured wages, as 
                                determined under the provisions of the 
                                State law implementing section 
                                202(a)(5) of the Federal-State Extended 
                                Unemployment Compensation Act of 1970 
                                (26 U.S.C. 3304 note); and
                                    ``(II) where otherwise inconsistent 
                                with the provisions of this section or 
                                with the regulations or operating 
                                instructions of the Secretary of Labor 
                                promulgated to carry out this section; 
                                and
                            ``(iii) the maximum amount of additional 
                        unemployment compensation payable to any 
                        applicable individual is 156 weeks.
                    ``(B) Transition for applicable individuals 
                receiving compensation under the temporary additional 
                unemployment compensation program.--In the case of an 
                applicable individual who received temporary additional 
                unemployment compensation under section 121 of the 
                Clean Energy Worker Just Transition Act for weeks 
                ending prior to January 1, 2019--
                            ``(i) the number of weeks described in 
                        subparagraph (A)(iii) shall be reduced by the 
                        number of weeks such individual received the 
                        temporary additional unemployment compensation 
                        under such section 121; and
                            ``(ii) in determining the amount under 
                        subparagraph (A) for such individual, the State 
                        shall use the same benefit year as was used for 
                        such individual under such section 121.
            ``(4) No new benefit year.--In determining the amount under 
        paragraph (3), a State shall not establish a new benefit year 
        with respect to applicable individuals.
            ``(5) Coordination rule.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of Federal law (and if the State law permits), the 
        Governor of a State that is in an extended benefit period may 
        provide for the payment of emergency unemployment compensation 
        prior to additional unemployment compensation to applicable 
        individuals who otherwise meet the requirements of this 
        section.
            ``(6) Unauthorized aliens ineligible.--A State shall 
        require as a condition of additional unemployment compensation 
        that each alien who receives such compensation must be legally 
        authorized to work in the United States, as defined for 
        purposes of the Federal Unemployment Tax Act (26 U.S.C. 3301 et 
        seq.). In determining whether an alien meets the requirements 
        of this subsection, a State must follow the procedures provided 
        in section 1137(d) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320b-
        7(d)).
    ``(b) Payments to States.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Full reimbursement.--There shall be paid to 
                each State an amount equal to 100 percent of--
                            ``(i) the total amount of additional 
                        unemployment compensation paid to applicable 
                        individuals by the State pursuant to this 
                        section; and
                            ``(ii) any additional administrative 
                        expenses incurred by the State by reason of 
                        this section (as determined by the Secretary of 
                        Labor).
                    ``(B) Terms of payments.--Sums payable to any State 
                by reason of this section shall be payable, either in 
                advance or by way of reimbursement (as determined by 
                the Secretary of Labor), in such amounts as the 
                Secretary of Labor estimates the State will be entitled 
                to receive under this section for a period, reduced or 
                increased, as the case may be, by any amount by which 
                the Secretary of Labor finds that his estimates for any 
                prior period were greater or less than the amounts 
                which should have been paid to the State. Such 
                estimates may be made on the basis of such statistical, 
                sampling, or other method as may be agreed upon by the 
                Secretary of Labor and the State agency of the State 
                involved.
            ``(2) Certifications.--The Secretary of Labor shall from 
        time to time certify to the Secretary of the Treasury for 
        payment to each State the sums payable to such State under this 
        section.
            ``(3) Funding.--Payments to States under an agreement under 
        this section shall be made from the Clean Energy Workers Trust 
        Fund established under section 141 of the Clean Energy Worker 
        Just Transition Act.
    ``(c) Fraud and Overpayments.--
            ``(1) In general.--If an individual knowingly has made, or 
        caused to be made by another, a false statement or 
        representation of a material fact, or knowingly has failed, or 
        caused another to fail, to disclose a material fact, and as a 
        result of such false statement or representation or of such 
        nondisclosure such individual has received an amount of 
        additional unemployment compensation to which such individual 
        was not entitled, such individual--
                    ``(A) shall be ineligible for further additional 
                unemployment compensation in accordance with the 
                provisions of the applicable State unemployment 
                compensation law relating to fraud in connection with a 
                claim for unemployment compensation; and
                    ``(B) shall be subject to prosecution under section 
                1001 of title 18, United States Code.
            ``(2) Repayment.--In the case of individuals who have 
        received amounts of additional unemployment compensation to 
        which they were not entitled, the State shall require such 
        individuals to repay the amounts of such additional 
        unemployment compensation to the State agency, except that the 
        State agency may waive such repayment if it determines that--
                    ``(A) the payment of such additional unemployment 
                compensation was without fault on the part of any such 
                individual; and
                    ``(B) such repayment would be contrary to equity 
                and good conscience.
            ``(3) Recovery by state agency.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The State agency shall recover 
                the amount to be repaid, or any part thereof, by 
                deductions from any additional unemployment 
                compensation payable to such individual under this 
                section or from any unemployment compensation payable 
                to such individual under any State or Federal 
                unemployment compensation law administered by the State 
                agency or under any other State or Federal law 
                administered by the State agency which provides for the 
                payment of any assistance or allowance with respect to 
                any week of unemployment, during the 3-year period 
                after the date such individuals received the payment of 
                the additional unemployment compensation to which they 
                were not entitled, in accordance with the same 
                procedures as apply to the recovery of overpayments of 
                regular unemployment benefits paid by the State.
                    ``(B) Opportunity for hearing.--No repayment shall 
                be required, and no deduction shall be made, until a 
                determination has been made, notice thereof and an 
                opportunity for a fair hearing has been given to the 
                individual, and the determination has become final.
            ``(4) Review.--Any determination by a State agency under 
        this subsection shall be subject to review in the same manner 
        and to the same extent as determinations under the State 
        unemployment compensation law, and only in that manner and to 
        that extent.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Applicable individual.--The term `applicable 
        individual' means, with respect to a week of additional 
        unemployment compensation, an individual who--
                    ``(A) is a certified adversely affected worker (as 
                defined in section 2 of the Clean Energy Worker Just 
                Transition Act) for such week; and
                    ``(B) has been awarded adjustment assistance for 
                option A under section 111(b)(1) of such Act for such 
                week.
            ``(2) EB program definitions.--The terms `compensation', 
        `regular compensation', `extended compensation', `benefit 
        year', `base period', `State', `State agency', `State law', and 
        `week' have the respective meanings given such terms under 
        section 205 of the Federal-State Extended Unemployment 
        Compensation Act of 1970 (26 U.S.C. 3304 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 23 of 
subtitle C of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at 
the end the following item:

``Sec. 3312. Additional unemployment compensation.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2019, and shall apply to weeks of unemployment 
ending on or after such date.

                Subtitle D--Other Benefits and Services

SEC. 131. ELIGIBILITY FOR PREMIUM SUBSIDY CREDIT AND COST SHARING 
              BENEFITS FOR HEALTH INSURANCE.

    (a) Premium Subsidy Credit.--
            (1) In general.--Paragraph (1) of section 36B(c) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end 
        the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(E) Special rule for certain certified adversely 
                affected workers.--If--
                            ``(i) a taxpayer has a household income 
                        which is not greater than 100 percent of an 
                        amount equal to the poverty line for a family 
                        of the size involved, and
                            ``(ii) the taxpayer is a certified 
                        adversely affected worker under section 2 of 
                        the Clean Energy Worker Just Transition Act and 
                        has been awarded adjustment assistance under 
                        Option A, Option B, or Option C of section 
                        111(b) of such Act,
                the taxpayer shall, for purposes of the credit under 
                this section, be treated as an applicable taxpayer with 
                a household income which is equal to 100 percent of the 
                poverty line for a family of the size involved.''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by this subsection 
        shall apply to months beginning after December 31, 2015.
    (b) Cost Sharing.--The second sentence of section 1402(b) of the 
Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act is amended by striking 
``section 36B(c)(1)(B)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (C) or (E) of 
section 36B(c)(1)''.

SEC. 132. TRAINING AND SUPPORT FOR EMPLOYMENT.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Career services.--The term ``career services'' means 
        services described in section 134(c)(2) of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(2)).
            (2) Eligible adversely affected worker.--The term 
        ``eligible adversely affected worker'' means a certified 
        adversely affected worker who has been awarded adjustment 
        assistance under section 111(b)(2).
            (3) Suitable employment.--The term ``suitable employment'', 
        used with respect to an eligible adversely affected worker, 
        means employment--
                    (A) at a wage that is not less than 90 percent of 
                the wage the worker received on the day before the date 
                described in section 103(b); and
                    (B) that meets such other requirements as the 
                Secretary may specify.
            (4) Training services.--The term ``training services'' 
        means services provided under section 134(c)(3) of the 
        Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3174(c)(3)).
    (b) Funding.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall use a portion 
of the funds made available under section 141 to carry out this 
section. From that portion, the Secretary shall--
            (1) reserve an amount for the Secretary to use in ensuring 
        the availability of rapid response activities and career 
        services under section 101(b)(1);
            (2) reserve an amount to grant job search allowances under 
        subsection (d);
            (3) reserve an amount to grant relocation allowance under 
        subsection (e); and
            (4) use the remainder of the portion to carry out 
        subsection (c).
    (c) Career Services and Training Services.--
            (1) Funding.--Each fiscal year, the Secretary shall use the 
        remainder described in subsection (b)(4) to provide career 
        services and training services to eligible adversely affected 
        workers, or to contribute to the costs of the one-stop delivery 
        system involved.
            (2) Treatment of funds.--The Secretary shall treat the 
        funds in that remainder as if the funds are part of the amount 
        described in section 132(b)(2)(B) of the Workforce Innovation 
        and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3172(b)(2)(B)), except that--
                    (A) all funds in that remainder may only be used to 
                provide career services and training services to 
                eligible adversely affected worker, or to contribute to 
                the costs of the one-stop delivery system involved, as 
                described in section 133(b)(5)(B)(ii) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3173(b)(5)(B)(ii));
                    (B) the funds in that remainder shall not be 
                counted for purposes of applying section 
                132(b)(2)(B)(iii) or 133(b)(2)(B)(iii) of that Act (29 
                U.S.C. 3172(b)(2)(B)(iii), 3173(b)(2)(B)(iii)); and
                    (C) section 133(b)(4) of that Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3173(b)(4)) shall not apply to the funds in that 
                remainder.
    (d) Job Search Allowances.--
            (1) Job search allowance authorized.--
                    (A) Distributions.--
                            (i) Initial distribution.--The Secretary 
                        shall establish procedures for an initial 
                        distribution to States of reserved funds 
                        described in subsection (b)(2) and available 
                        for a fiscal year. Such procedures may include 
                        the distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                            (ii) Subsequent distribution.--The 
                        Secretary shall establish procedures for the 
                        distribution to States of the reserved funds 
                        that remain available for the fiscal year after 
                        the initial distribution required under clause 
                        (i). Such procedures may include the 
                        distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                    (B) State use of funds.--Each State may use funds 
                distributed to the State under subparagraph (A) to 
                allow an eligible adversely affected worker who has 
                completed a program of training services or has 
                received appropriate career services to file an 
                application with the Secretary for payment of a job 
                search allowance.
                    (C) Approval of applications.--The Secretary may 
                grant an allowance pursuant to an application filed 
                under subparagraph (B) when all of the following apply:
                            (i) Assist eligible adversely affected 
                        worker.--The allowance is paid to assist a 
                        worker described in subparagraph (B) in 
                        securing a job within the United States.
                            (ii) Local employment not available.--The 
                        Secretary determines that the worker cannot 
                        reasonably be expected to secure suitable 
                        employment in the commuting area in which the 
                        worker resides.
                            (iii) Application.--The worker has filed an 
                        application for the allowance with the 
                        Secretary at such time and containing such 
                        information as the Secretary may determine.
            (2) Amount of allowance.--
                    (A) In general.--Any allowance granted under 
                paragraph (1) shall provide reimbursement to the worker 
                of not more than 90 percent of the necessary job search 
                expenses of the worker as prescribed by the Secretary 
                in regulations.
                    (B) Maximum allowance.--Reimbursement under this 
                paragraph may not exceed $1,250 for any worker.
                    (C) Exception.--Notwithstanding subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B), a State may reimburse any worker described in 
                paragraph (1)(B) for necessary expenses incurred by the 
                worker in participating in a job search program 
                approved by the Secretary.
    (e) Relocation Allowances.--
            (1) Relocation allowance authorized.--
                    (A) Distributions.--
                            (i) Initial distribution.--The Secretary 
                        shall establish procedures for an initial 
                        distribution to States of reserved funds 
                        described in subsection (b)(3) and available 
                        for a fiscal year. Such procedures may include 
                        the distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                            (ii) Subsequent distribution.--The 
                        Secretary shall establish procedures for the 
                        distribution to States of the reserved funds 
                        that remain available for the fiscal year after 
                        the initial distribution required under clause 
                        (i). Such procedures may include the 
                        distribution of funds pursuant to requests 
                        submitted by States in need of such funds.
                    (B) State use of funds.--Each State may use funds 
                distributed to the State under subparagraph (A) to 
                allow an eligible adversely affected worker to file an 
                application for a relocation allowance with the 
                Secretary, and the Secretary may grant the relocation 
                allowance, subject to the terms and conditions of this 
                subsection.
            (2) Conditions for granting allowance.--The relocation 
        allowance may be granted if all of the following terms and 
        conditions are met:
                    (A) Assist eligible adversely affected worker.--The 
                relocation allowance will assist an eligible adversely 
                affected worker in relocating within the United States 
                to receive training services or for employment.
                    (B) Local employment not available.--The Secretary 
                determines that the worker cannot reasonably be 
                expected to secure--
                            (i) in the case of a worker relocating to 
                        receive training services, suitable training 
                        services in the commuting area in which the 
                        worker resides; and
                            (ii) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment, suitable employment in that 
                        commuting area.
                    (C) Separation or threat.--The worker is totally or 
                partially separated, or is threatened to become totally 
                or partially separated, from employment at the time 
                relocation commences.
                    (D) Suitable training or employment.--The worker--
                            (i) in the case of a worker relocating to 
                        receive training services or for employment 
                        after receiving training services, obtains 
                        approval from the Secretary for the program of 
                        training services involved; or
                            (ii) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment, has obtained suitable employment 
                        affording a reasonable expectation of long-term 
                        duration in the area in which the worker wishes 
                        to relocate, or has obtained a bona fide offer 
                        of such employment.
                    (E) Application.--The worker filed an application 
                with the Secretary before--
                            (i) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment or to receive training services, the 
                        later of--
                                    (I) the 425th day after the date of 
                                the certification under section 102 
                                that covers the worker; or
                                    (II) the 425th day after the date 
                                of the worker's last total separation; 
                                or
                            (ii) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                        employment after receiving training services, 
                        the date that is the 182d day after the date on 
                        which the worker concluded a program of 
                        training services approved by the Secretary 
                        under subparagraph (D)(i).
            (3) Amount of allowance.--Any relocation allowance granted 
        to a worker under paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) not more than 90 percent of the reasonable and 
                necessary expenses (including subsistence and 
                transportation expenses at levels not exceeding those 
                allowable as specified in regulations prescribed by the 
                Secretary) incurred in transporting the worker, the 
                worker's family, and household effects; and
                    (B) a lump sum equivalent to 3 times the worker's 
                average weekly wage, up to a maximum payment of $1,250.
            (4) Limitations.--A relocation allowance may not be granted 
        to a worker unless--
                    (A) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                employment or to receive training services, the 
                relocation occurs within 182 days after the filing of 
                the application for relocation assistance; or
                    (B) in the case of a worker relocating for 
                employment after receiving training services, the 
                relocation occurs within 182 days after the conclusion 
                of a program of training services approved by the 
                Secretary under paragraph (2)(D)(i).

SEC. 133. ADDITIONAL PENSIONS BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--In the case that, with respect to a certified 
adversely affected worker, the amount of pension plan benefits 
guaranteed under section 4022 or 4022A of the Employee Retirement 
Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1322, 1322a), subject to section 
4022B of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1322b) is less than the amount of the 
nonforfeitable benefit to which such employee was entitled under the 
terms of the pension plan of the applicable firm immediately before the 
date of the insolvency of such applicable firm, the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation shall make payments to such certified adversely 
affected worker or to the multiemployer plan of the certified adversely 
affected worker, as applicable, on a monthly basis in an amount equal 
to--
            (1) the excess of--
                    (A) the amount to which the employee was so 
                entitled; over
                    (B) the amount so guaranteed; and
            (2) the payments otherwise made to such worker in 
        accordance with section 4022 or 4022A of the Employee 
        Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1322, 1322a), 
        subject to section 4022B of such Act (29 U.S.C. 1322b).
    (b) Transfers From Fund.--Each fiscal quarter, the Secretary of 
Labor shall transfer from the Trust Fund established under section 141 
to the fund established under subsection (i) of section 4005 of the 
Employee Retirement Income Security Act (29 U.S.C. 1305) (as added by 
subsection (c)), an amount equal to the aggregate payments that are 
expected to be made under subsection (a)(1) by the Pension Benefit 
Guaranty Corporation in the subsequent fiscal quarter. The Secretary of 
Labor may adjust the amounts so transferred for a fiscal quarter to 
account for any overpayment or underpayment so made in a previous 
fiscal quarter.
    (c) PBGC Fund.--Section 4005 of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1305) is amended by adding at the end 
the following:
    ``(i) An eighth fund shall be established and credited with any 
amounts transferred in accordance with section 133(b) of the Clean 
Energy Worker Just Transition Act. Such amounts shall be made available 
to make payments in accordance with section 133(a) of such Act.''.

                          Subtitle E--Funding

SEC. 141. ESTABLISHMENT OF CLEAN ENERGY WORKERS TRUST FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury of the 
United States a trust fund to be known as the ``Clean Energy Workers 
Trust Fund'' (referred to in this Act as the ``Trust Fund''), 
consisting of such amounts as may be appropriated to the Trust Fund 
under subsection (b).
    (b) Amounts in Trust Fund.--There is appropriated to the Trust 
Fund, on an annual basis, an amount equal to the increase in revenues 
to the Treasury resulting from the amendments made by section 142.
    (c) Expenditures From Trust Fund.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided under paragraph (2), 
        amounts in the Trust Fund shall be available without further 
        appropriation--
                    (A) to carry out--
                            (i) the group certification and individual 
                        application provisions under subtitles A and B 
                        of this title, respectively;
                            (ii) adjustment assistance provided through 
                        any option under section 111(b) (subject to 
                        paragraph (2)); and
                            (iii) sections 152 and 153; and
                    (B) for the administrative costs associated with 
                carrying out subparagraph (A) and this section.
            (2) Tax credits and incentives.--From time to time there 
        shall be transferred from the Trust Fund to the general fund of 
        the Treasury amounts equal to the decrease in revenues to the 
        Treasury resulting from the amendments made by sections 131 and 
        151.
            (3) Availability.--The amounts in the Trust Fund shall be 
        available for the purposes described in paragraphs (1) and (2) 
        to the Secretary and the head of any other agency as necessary 
        to carry out such purposes.

SEC. 142. MODIFICATIONS TO RULES RELATING TO INVERTED CORPORATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 7874 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Inverted Corporations Treated as Domestic Corporations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 7701(a)(4), a 
        foreign corporation shall be treated for purposes of this title 
        as a domestic corporation if--
                    ``(A) such corporation would be a surrogate foreign 
                corporation if subsection (a)(2) were applied by 
                substituting `80 percent' for `60 percent', or
                    ``(B) such corporation is an inverted domestic 
                corporation.
            ``(2) Inverted domestic corporation.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, a foreign corporation shall be treated as an 
        inverted domestic corporation if, pursuant to a plan (or a 
        series of related transactions)--
                    ``(A) the entity completes after May 8, 2014, the 
                direct or indirect acquisition of--
                            ``(i) substantially all of the properties 
                        held directly or indirectly by a domestic 
                        corporation, or
                            ``(ii) substantially all of the assets of, 
                        or substantially all of the properties 
                        constituting a trade or business of, a domestic 
                        partnership, and
                    ``(B) after the acquisition, either--
                            ``(i) more than 50 percent of the stock (by 
                        vote or value) of the entity is held--
                                    ``(I) in the case of an acquisition 
                                with respect to a domestic corporation, 
                                by former shareholders of the domestic 
                                corporation by reason of holding stock 
                                in the domestic corporation, or
                                    ``(II) in the case of an 
                                acquisition with respect to a domestic 
                                partnership, by former partners of the 
                                domestic partnership by reason of 
                                holding a capital or profits interest 
                                in the domestic partnership, or
                            ``(ii) the management and control of the 
                        expanded affiliated group which includes the 
                        entity occurs, directly or indirectly, 
                        primarily within the United States, and such 
                        expanded affiliated group has significant 
                        domestic business activities.
            ``(3) Exception for corporations with substantial business 
        activities in foreign country of organization.--A foreign 
        corporation described in paragraph (2) shall not be treated as 
        an inverted domestic corporation if after the acquisition the 
        expanded affiliated group which includes the entity has 
        substantial business activities in the foreign country in which 
        or under the law of which the entity is created or organized 
        when compared to the total business activities of such expanded 
        affiliated group. For purposes of subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii) and 
        the preceding sentence, the term `substantial business 
        activities' shall have the meaning given such term under 
        regulations in effect on May 8, 2014, except that the Secretary 
        may issue regulations increasing the threshold percent in any 
        of the tests under such regulations for determining if business 
        activities constitute substantial business activities for 
        purposes of this paragraph.
            ``(4) Management and control.--For purposes of paragraph 
        (2)(B)(ii)--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall prescribe 
                regulations for purposes of determining cases in which 
                the management and control of an expanded affiliated 
                group is to be treated as occurring, directly or 
                indirectly, primarily within the United States. The 
                regulations prescribed under the preceding sentence 
                shall apply to periods after May 8, 2014.
                    ``(B) Executive officers and senior management.--
                Such regulations shall provide that the management and 
                control of an expanded affiliated group shall be 
                treated as occurring, directly or indirectly, primarily 
                within the United States if substantially all of the 
                executive officers and senior management of the 
                expanded affiliated group who exercise day-to-day 
                responsibility for making decisions involving 
                strategic, financial, and operational policies of the 
                expanded affiliated group are based or primarily 
                located within the United States. Individuals who in 
                fact exercise such day-to-day responsibilities shall be 
                treated as executive officers and senior management 
                regardless of their title.
            ``(5) Significant domestic business activities.--For 
        purposes of paragraph (2)(B)(ii), an expanded affiliated group 
        has significant domestic business activities if at least 25 
        percent of--
                    ``(A) the employees of the group are based in the 
                United States,
                    ``(B) the employee compensation incurred by the 
                group is incurred with respect to employees based in 
                the United States,
                    ``(C) the assets of the group are located in the 
                United States, or
                    ``(D) the income of the group is derived in the 
                United States,
        determined in the same manner as such determinations are made 
        for purposes of determining substantial business activities 
        under regulations referred to in paragraph (3) as in effect on 
        May 8, 2014, but applied by treating all references in such 
        regulations to `foreign country' and `relevant foreign country' 
        as references to `the United States'. The Secretary may issue 
        regulations decreasing the threshold percent in any of the 
        tests under such regulations for determining if business 
        activities constitute significant domestic business activities 
        for purposes of this paragraph.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) Clause (i) of section 7874(a)(2)(B) of such Code is 
        amended by striking ``after March 4, 2003,'' and inserting 
        ``after March 4, 2003, and before May 9, 2014,''.
            (2) Subsection (c) of section 7874 of such Code is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``subsection 
                        (a)(2)(B)(ii)'' and inserting ``subsections 
                        (a)(2)(B)(ii) and (b)(2)(B)(i)'', and
                            (ii) by inserting ``or (b)(2)(A)'' after 
                        ``(a)(2)(B)(i)'' in subparagraph (B),
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``or 
                (b)(2)(B)(i), as the case may be,'' after 
                ``(a)(2)(B)(ii)'',
                    (C) in paragraph (5), by striking ``subsection 
                (a)(2)(B)(ii)'' and inserting ``subsections 
                (a)(2)(B)(ii) and (b)(2)(B)(i)'', and
                    (D) in paragraph (6), by inserting ``or inverted 
                domestic corporation, as the case may be,'' after 
                ``surrogate foreign corporation''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to taxable years ending after May 8, 2014.

                  Subtitle F--Miscellaneous Provisions

SEC. 151. CREDIT FOR HIRING UNEMPLOYED CERTIFIED ADVERSELY AFFECTED 
              WORKERS.

    (a) Inclusion in Work Opportunity Credit.--Paragraph (1) of section 
51(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking 
``or'' at the end of subparagraph (H), by striking the period at the 
end of subparagraph (I) and inserting ``, or'', and by adding at the 
end the following new subparagraph:
                    ``(J) a qualified adversely affected energy 
                industry unemployed worker.''.
    (b) Definition of Qualified Adversely Affected Energy Industry 
Unemployed Worker.--Subsection (d) of section 51 of the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
            ``(15) Qualified adversely affected energy industry 
        unemployed worker.--The term `qualified adversely affected 
        energy industry unemployed worker' means any individual who--
                    ``(A) is a certified adversely affected worker 
                under section 2 of the Clean Energy Worker Just 
                Transition Act and whose status as such has not been 
                terminated before the date the individual begins work 
                for the employer,
                    ``(B) is certified by the designated local agency 
                as--
                            ``(i) having aggregate periods of 
                        unemployment during the 1-year period ending on 
                        the hiring date which equal or exceed 4 weeks 
                        (but less than 6 months), or
                            ``(ii) having aggregate periods of 
                        unemployment during the 1-year period ending on 
                        the hiring date which equal or exceed 6 
                        months.''.
    (c) Increased Credit Amount for Long-Term Unemployed Workers.--
Section 51(b)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended--
            (1) by striking ``and'' before ``$24,000'', and
            (2) by inserting ``, and $14,000 per year in the case of 
        any individual who is a qualified adversely affected energy 
        industry unemployed worker by reason of subsection 
        (d)(15)(B)(ii)'' after ``subsection (d)(3)(A)(ii)(II)''.
    (d) Credit Limited to Individuals Hired for Comparable 
Occupation.--Subsection (b) of section 51 of the Internal Revenue Code 
of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Special rule for qualified adversely affected energy 
        industry unemployed workers.--The term `qualified wages' shall 
        not include any wages paid to qualified adversely affected 
        energy industry unemployed worker unless the position for which 
        such worker is hired for is a comparable occupation as 
        determined under section 112 of the Clean Energy Worker Just 
        Transition Act.''.
    (e) Termination Provision Not To Apply.--Paragraph (4) of section 
51(c) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the 
end the following new sentence: ``The preceding sentence shall not 
apply with respect to amounts paid or incurred to qualified adversely 
affected energy industry unemployed workers.''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to individuals who begin work for the employer after December 31, 
2015.

SEC. 152. ENFORCEMENT.

    (a) Violations.--It shall be a violation of this title to for any 
person to--
            (1) make a false statement of a material fact knowing it to 
        be false, or knowingly fail to disclose a material fact, for 
        the purpose of obtaining or increasing for that person or for 
        any other person any payment authorized to be furnished under 
        this title; or
            (2) make a false statement of a material fact knowing it to 
        be false, or knowingly fail to disclose a material fact, when 
        providing information to the Secretary during an investigation 
        of a petition under section 101.
    (b) Penalties.--Any person who commits a violation under subsection 
(a) shall be imprisoned for not more than 1 year, fined under title 18, 
United States Code, or both.

SEC. 153. BENEFIT INFORMATION TO WORKERS.

    (a) General Information.--The Secretary shall provide--
            (1) full information to workers about--
                    (A) the adjustment assistance available under this 
                title; and
                    (B) the petition and application procedures, and 
                the appropriate filing dates, for such adjustment 
                assistance;
            (2) whatever assistance is necessary to enable groups of 
        workers to prepare petitions or applications for such 
        adjustment assistance;
            (3) the applicable eligible agency, as defined in section 3 
        of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 
        2006 (20 U.S.C. 2302), or any equivalent agency, and public or 
        private agencies, institutions, and employers, as appropriate, 
        with information of each certification issued under section 103 
        and of projections, if available, of the needs for training 
        under section 132 as a result of such certification; and
            (4) labor organizations and other community organizations 
        with funding from the Trust Fund established under section 141, 
        to conduct community outreach to educate adversely affected 
        workers about such adjustment assistance.
    (b) Written Notice to Individuals.--The Secretary shall provide 
written notice through the mail of the adjustment assistance available 
under this title to each worker whom the Secretary has reason to 
believe is covered by a certification under section 103--
            (1) at the time such certification is made, if the worker 
        was partially or totally separated, or threatened to become 
        totally or partially separated, from the adversely affected 
        employment before such certification, or
            (2) at the time of the total or partial separation, or 
        threatened total or partial separation, of the worker from the 
        adversely affected employment, if paragraph (1) does not apply.
    (c) Published Notice.--The Secretary shall publish notice of the 
adjustment assistance available under this title to workers covered by 
each certification issued under section 103 in newspapers of general 
circulation in the areas in which such workers reside.
    (d) Notification to Department of Commerce.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, and each year thereafter, the 
Secretary shall prepare and submit a report to the Department of 
Commerce on the geographic location and sector implicated by each 
certification issued under section 103.

SEC. 154. AMENDMENT TO SURFACE MINING CONTROL AND RECLAMATION ACT OF 
              1977.

    Section 402(i)(2) of the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act 
of 1977 (30 U.S.C. 1232(i)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``Subject to'' and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Excess amounts.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Subject to paragraph 
                        (3), and after all transfers referred to in 
                        subparagraph (A) and paragraph (1) have been 
                        made, any amounts remaining after the 
                        application of paragraph (3)(A) (without regard 
                        to this subparagraph) shall be transferred to 
                        the trustees of the 1974 UMWA Pension Plan and 
                        used solely to pay pension benefits required 
                        under such plan.
                            ``(ii) 1974 umwa pension plan.--For 
                        purposes of this subparagraph, the term `1974 
                        UMWA Pension Plan' means a pension plan 
                        referred to in section 9701(a)(3) of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 but without 
                        regard to whether participation in such plan is 
                        limited to individuals who retired in 1976 and 
                        thereafter.''.

SEC. 155. REGULATIONS.

    The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to carry out this title.

                   TITLE II--WORKPLACE DEMOCRACY ACT

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Workplace Democracy for a Clean 
Energy Future''.

SEC. 202. STREAMLINING CERTIFICATION FOR LABOR ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 9(c) of the National Labor Relations Act 
(29 U.S.C. 159(c)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(6) Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, whenever 
a petition shall have been filed by an employee or group of employees 
or any individual or labor organization acting in their behalf alleging 
that a majority of employees in a unit appropriate for the purposes of 
collective bargaining wish to be represented by an individual or labor 
organization for such purposes, the Board shall investigate the 
petition. If the Board finds that a majority of the employees in a unit 
appropriate for bargaining has signed valid authorizations designating 
the individual or labor organization specified in the petition as their 
bargaining representative and that no other individual or labor 
organization is currently certified or recognized as the exclusive 
representative of any of the employees in the unit, the Board shall not 
direct an election but shall certify the individual or labor 
organization as the representative described in subsection (a).
    ``(7) The Board shall develop guidelines and procedures for the 
designation by employees of a bargaining representative in the manner 
described in paragraph (6). Such guidelines and procedures shall 
include--
            ``(A) model collective bargaining authorization language 
        that may be used for purposes of making the designations 
        described in paragraph (6); and
            ``(B) procedures to be used by the Board to establish the 
        validity of signed authorizations designating bargaining 
        representatives.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
            (1) National labor relations board.--Section 3(b) of the 
        National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 153(b)) is amended, in 
        the second sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``and to'' and inserting ``to''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``and certify the results 
                thereof,'' and inserting ``, and to issue 
                certifications as provided for in that section,''.
            (2) Unfair labor practices.--Section 8(b) of the National 
        Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 158(b)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (7)(B) by striking ``, or'' and 
                inserting ``or a petition has been filed under section 
                9(c)(6), or''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (7)(C) by striking ``when such a 
                petition has been filed'' and inserting ``when such a 
                petition other than a petition under section 9(c)(6) 
                has been filed''.

SEC. 203. FACILITATING INITIAL COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.

    Section 8 of the National Labor Relations Act (29 U.S.C. 158) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Whenever collective bargaining is for the purpose of 
establishing an initial agreement following certification or 
recognition, the provisions of subsection (d) shall be modified as 
follows:
            ``(1) Not later than 10 days after receiving a written 
        request for collective bargaining from an individual or labor 
        organization that has been newly organized or certified as a 
        representative as defined in section 9(a), or within such 
        further period as the parties agree upon, the parties shall 
        meet and commence to bargain collectively and shall make every 
        reasonable effort to conclude and sign a collective bargaining 
        agreement.
            ``(2) If after the expiration of the 90-day period 
        beginning on the date on which bargaining is commenced, or such 
        additional period as the parties may agree upon, the parties 
        have failed to reach an agreement, either party may notify the 
        Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service of the existence of 
        a dispute and request mediation. Whenever such a request is 
        received, it shall be the duty of the Service promptly to put 
        itself in communication with the parties and to use its best 
        efforts, by mediation and conciliation, to bring them to 
        agreement.
            ``(3) If after the expiration of the 30-day period 
        beginning on the date on which the request for mediation is 
        made under paragraph (2), or such additional period as the 
        parties may agree upon, the Service is not able to bring the 
        parties to agreement by conciliation, the Service shall refer 
        the dispute to an arbitration board established in accordance 
        with such regulations as may be prescribed by the Service. The 
        arbitration panel shall render a decision settling the dispute 
        and such decision shall be binding upon the parties for a 
        period of 2 years, unless amended during such period by written 
        consent of the parties.''.

 TITLE III--COMMUNITY NEED-BASED ECONOMIC TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

SEC. 301. COMMUNITY NEED-BASED ECONOMIC TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Eligible County Defined.--In this title, the term ``eligible 
county'' means a county or an Indian tribe (as that term is defined in 
section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act 
(25 U.S.C. 450b)) eligible for assistance under this title--
            (1) in which not less than 35 certified adversely affected 
        workers reside; and
            (2) that is certified by the Secretary under subsection 
        (b).
    (b) Certification.--The Secretary shall certify an eligible county 
not later than 20 days after the date on which the Secretary determines 
that at least 35 workers residing in the county are certified adversely 
affected workers.
    (c) Notification.--After the Secretary certifies a county as an 
eligible county under this section, the Secretary shall provide notice 
of the certification--
            (1) to the county government; or
            (2) if the county does not have a county government, to the 
        most localized relevant regional or State government.
    (d) Application.--After the date on which the Secretary certifies a 
county under this section, the county may apply for a grant under each 
of subsections (a) through (c) of section 302 and each of subsections 
(a) through (e) of section 303.

SEC. 302. ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT GRANT PROGRAMS.

    (a) Appalachian Regional Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The Appalachian Regional Commission 
        established by section 14301(a) of title 40, United States Code 
        (referred to in this subsection as the ``Commission''), shall 
        award grants to eligible counties to support economic 
        development planning and implementation activities in those 
        counties, including--
                    (A) developing entrepreneurial ecosystems;
                    (B) facilitating access to capital investments and 
                new markets; and
                    (C) addressing barriers relating to adequate water, 
                sewer, and telecommunications infrastructure.
            (2) Regulations; guidance.--In carrying out this 
        subsection, the Commission may issue such regulations and 
        guidance to carry out this subsection as the Commission 
        determines to be necessary.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Commission to carry out this 
        subsection $40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 
        2025.
    (b) Economic Development Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for 
        Economic Development (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Assistant Secretary'') shall--
                    (A) advance and coordinate regional place-based 
                innovation efforts for the Federal Government; and
                    (B) provide planning and coordination assistance to 
                eligible counties and other Federal agencies to assist 
                in economic development activities under this title.
            (2) Regulations; guidance.--In carrying out this 
        subsection, the Assistant Secretary may issue such regulations 
        and guidance to carry out this subsection as the Assistant 
        Secretary determines to be necessary.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Assistant Secretary to carry out this 
        subsection $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 
        2025.
    (c) New Development and Jobs in Abandoned Mine Land Communities.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Surface 
        Mining Reclamation and Enforcement (referred to in this 
        subsection as the ``Director'') shall award grants to eligible 
        counties for activities relating to the reclamation of 
        abandoned coal mine land sites and associated polluted waters.
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the grant program under this 
        subsection is to promote sustainable redevelopment in eligible 
        counties.
            (3) Selection.--The Director shall award grants based on 
        economic factors, including--
                    (A) the unemployment rate in the eligible county;
                    (B) the amount and severity of problems in the 
                eligible county relating to abandoned coal mine land 
                and water problems; and
                    (C) whether, in the determination of the Director, 
                reclamation activities to promote economic development 
                would assist the eligible county.
            (4) Regulations; procedures.--In consultation with States, 
        Indian tribes (as that term is defined in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 450b)), and other stakeholders, the Director may issue 
        such regulations and guidance to carry out this subsection as 
        the Director determines to be necessary.
            (5) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Director to carry out this subsection 
        $250,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2025.

SEC. 303. NEED-BASED WATER, BROADBAND, AND ELECTRIC GRID INFRASTRUCTURE 
              INVESTMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) State Drinking Water Treatment Revolving Loan Funds.--The 
Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall award to 
eligible counties capitalization grants for the purpose of establishing 
a drinking water treatment revolving loan fund under section 1452(a) of 
the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j-12(a)).
    (b) Water Infrastructure Finance and Innovation.--The Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency shall provide to eligible 
counties long-term, low-interest loans for large water infrastructure 
projects that are not eligible for funding from a State revolving loan 
fund, in accordance with the Water Infrastructure Finance and 
Innovation Act of 2014 (33 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.).
    (c) Broadband Initiatives Program.--The Secretary of Agriculture 
shall provide to eligible counties loans and loan guarantees under the 
broadband initiatives program established under title VI of the Rural 
Electrification Act of 1936 (7 U.S.C. 950bb et seq.) to expand the 
access to, and quality of, broadband service across the rural United 
States.
    (d) Broadband Technology Opportunities Program.--The Assistant 
Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information shall award to 
eligible counties grants for purposes of the Broadband Technology 
Opportunities Program established under section 6001(a) of the American 
Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (47 U.S.C. 1305(a)), including 
providing access to, and improving, broadband service to underserved 
areas of the United States.
    (e) Electric Grid Infrastructure.--The Secretary of Energy shall 
award to eligible counties grants for expenses necessary for--
            (1) electricity delivery and energy reliability activities 
        to modernize the electric grid, including activities relating 
        to--
                    (A) demand-responsive equipment;
                    (B) enhanced security and reliability of energy 
                infrastructure;
                    (C) energy storage research, development, 
                demonstration, and deployment;
                    (D) facilitating recovery from disruptions to the 
                energy supply; and
                    (E) high-voltage transmission lines to bring 
                utility-scale hydro, wind, solar, and geothermal 
                generation to demand centers; and
            (2) implementation of the programs authorized under title 
        XIII of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (42 
        U.S.C. 17381 et seq.).
    (f) Grant and Loan Selection and Management.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury, in consultation with the Assistant 
        Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development and State and 
        local workforce development boards established under sections 
        101 and 107 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 
        U.S.C. 3111, 3122), shall determine the percentage of funds 
        made available to allocate to each agency carrying out a loan 
        or grant program under subsections (a) through (e).
            (2) Selection.--To the maximum extent practicable, in 
        selecting grant and loan applicants under this section, the 
        heads of the agencies carrying out the grant and loan programs 
        shall consult and coordinate with the Assistant Secretary of 
        Commerce for Economic Development.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $7,000,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2016 through 2025.
                                 <all>
