[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 319 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 319

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 17, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 160) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to repeal the excise tax on medical devices. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the 
bill, modified by the amendment printed in part A of the report of the Committee 
on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as adopted. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered 
as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to 
final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1190) to repeal the provisions of the Patient 
Protection and Affordable Care Act providing for the Independent Payment 
Advisory Board. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as 
amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in 
the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final 
passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally 
divided among and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Ways and Means and the chair and ranking minority member of the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
