[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3153 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3153

  To authorize a national memorial to commemorate those killed by the 
  collapse of the Saint Francis Dam on March 12, 1928, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 22, 2015

Mr. Knight (for himself and Ms. Brownley of California) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To authorize a national memorial to commemorate those killed by the 
  collapse of the Saint Francis Dam on March 12, 1928, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Saint Francis Dam 
Disaster National Memorial and Castaic Wilderness Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes.
             TITLE I--SAINT FRANCIS DAM ADVISORY COMMISSION

Sec. 101. Memorial to honor the victims of the Saint Francis Dam 
                            Disaster.
Sec. 102. Saint Francis Dam Advisory Commission.
Sec. 103. Duties of the secretary of the interior with respect to 
                            memorial.
Sec. 104. Establishment of national monument.
Sec. 105. Knapp Ranch potential wilderness area.
Sec. 106. General provisions.
Sec. 107. Definitions.
         TITLE II--DESIGNATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS

Sec. 201. Designation and administration of wilderness.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) On March 12, 1928, the Saint Francis Dam located in the 
        northern portion of Los Angeles County, California, breached, 
        resulting in a devastating flood that caused the death of 
        approximately 425 individuals.
            (2) The residents of the Santa Clarita Valley, San 
        Francisquito Canyon, Castaic Junction, Santa Clara River 
        Valley, Piru, Fillmore, Bardsdale, Saticoy, and Santa Paula 
        were directly impacted and suffered greatly from the worst 
        flood in the history of the State of California.
            (3) The disaster resulted in a tremendous loss of human 
        life, property, and the livelihood of local residents, and was 
        surpassed in the 20th century only by the great San Francisco 
        earthquake of 1906.
            (4) The dam's collapse may represent America's worst civil 
        engineering failure in the 20th century.
            (5) The site is subject to the theft of historic artifacts, 
        as well as graffiti and other vandalism.
            (6) The surrounding area has important historic and 
        environmental significance.
            (7) It is right to pay homage to the citizens who perished, 
        were injured, or were dislocated in the flood, and to bring to 
        light and educate the general public about this important 
        historical event.
            (8) It is appropriate that the site of the Saint Francis 
        Dam and surrounding areas be designated a unit of the National 
        Park System to commemorate this tragic event.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are as follows:
            (1) To establish a national memorial to honor the victims 
        of the Saint Francis Dam disaster of March 12, 1928.
            (2) To establish the Saint Francis Dam Advisory Commission 
        to assist with consideration and formulation of plans for a 
        permanent memorial to the victims of that disaster, including 
        its nature, design, and construction.
            (3) To permanently protect the site and surrounding area of 
        the Saint Francis Dam and educate the general public about this 
        tragic and historic event.
            (4) To authorize the Secretary of the Interior to 
        coordinate and facilitate the activities of the Saint Francis 
        Dam Advisory Commission, provide technical and financial 
        assistance to the Saint Francis Dam Task Force, and to 
        administer a Saint Francis Dam memorial.
            (5) To designate the Saint Francis Dam National Monument.
            (6) To designate certain Federal lands administered by the 
        United States Forest Service within Los Angeles County as 
        wilderness.

             TITLE I--SAINT FRANCIS DAM ADVISORY COMMISSION

SEC. 101. MEMORIAL TO HONOR THE VICTIMS OF THE SAINT FRANCIS DAM 
              DISASTER.

    There is established a memorial at the Saint Francis Dam site in 
the County of Los Angeles, California, to honor the victims of the 
Saint Francis Dam disaster of March 12, 1928, which shall be--
            (1) known as the Saint Francis Dam Disaster National 
        Memorial and be managed by the National Park Service; and
            (2) located within the Saint Francis Dam Disaster National 
        Monument.

SEC. 102. SAINT FRANCIS DAM ADVISORY COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a commission to be known 
as the ``Saint Francis Dam Advisory Commission''.
    (b) Membership.--The Commission shall consist of no more than 15 
members, including the Director of the National Park Service, or the 
Director's designee, the Chief of the United States Forest Service, or 
the Chief's designee, a designee of the Governor of the State of 
California, a designee of the County of Los Angeles Board of 
Supervisors, a representative of the Santa Clarita Valley Historical 
Society, a representative of the Community Hiking Club of Santa 
Clarita, and up to 8 additional members appointed by the Secretary of 
the Interior in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture.
    (c) Term.--The term of the members of the Commission shall be for 
the life of the Commission.
    (d) Chair.--The members of the Commission shall select the Chair of 
the Commission.
    (e) Vacancies.--Any vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its 
powers if a quorum is present, but shall be filled in the same manner 
as the original appointment.
    (f) Meetings.--The Commission shall meet at the call of the 
Chairperson or a majority of the members, but not less often than 
quarterly. The Commission shall publish notice of the Commission 
meetings and agendas for the meetings in local newspapers in the 
vicinity of Los Angeles County and in the Federal Register. Meetings of 
the Commission shall be subject to section 552b of title 5, United 
States Code (relating to open meetings).
    (g) Quorum.--A majority of the members serving on the Commission 
shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business.
    (h) No Compensation.--Members of the Commission shall serve without 
compensation, but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred in carrying 
out the duties of the Commission.
    (i) Duties.--The duties of the Commission shall be as follows:
            (1) Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the Secretary of 
        the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, and Congress a 
        report containing recommendations for the planning, design, 
        construction, and long-term management of a permanent memorial 
        at the dam site.
            (2) The Commission shall advise the Secretary of the 
        Interior and the Secretary of Agriculture on the preferred 
        nature of the Memorial, including the boundaries of the 
        Memorial site, the desirability of a visitor center and 
        educational facilities at the site, as well as ensuring public 
        accessibility to the site.
            (3) The Commission shall advise the Secretary of the 
        Interior in the development of a management plan for the 
        Memorial site.
            (4) The Commission shall consult and coordinate closely 
        with all interested persons, as appropriate, as to how best to 
        commemorate the Saint Francis Dam disaster.
            (5) The Commission shall provide significant opportunities 
        for public participation in the planning and design of the 
        Memorial.
    (j) Powers.--The Commission may--
            (1) make such expenditures for services and materials for 
        the purpose of carrying out this title as the Commission 
        considers advisable from funds appropriated or received as 
        gifts for that purpose;
            (2) subject to approval by the Secretary of the Interior, 
        solicit and accept donations of funds and gifts, personal 
        property, supplies, and services from individuals, foundations, 
        corporations, and other private or public entities to be used 
        in connection with the construction or other expenses of the 
        Memorial;
            (3) hold hearings and enter into contracts for personal 
        services;
            (4) do such other things as are necessary to carry out this 
        title; and
            (5) by a vote of the majority of the Commission, delegate 
        such of its duties as it determines appropriate to employees of 
        the National Park Service and the United States Forest Service.
    (k) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate upon dedication of 
the completed Memorial.

SEC. 103. DUTIES OF THE SECRETARY OF THE INTERIOR WITH RESPECT TO 
              MEMORIAL.

    The Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Agriculture, may--
            (1) provide assistance to the Commission, including advice 
        on collections, storage, and archives;
            (2) consult and assist the Commission in providing 
        information, interpretation, and the conduct of oral history 
        interviews;
            (3) provide assistance in conducting public meetings and 
        forums held by the Commission;
            (4) provide project management assistance to the Commission 
        for planning, design, and construction activities;
            (5) provide programming and design assistance to the 
        Commission for possible Memorial exhibits, collections, or 
        activities;
            (6) provide staff assistance and support to the Commission;
            (7) participate in the formulation of plans for the design 
        of the Memorial, accept funds raised by the Commission for 
        construction of the Memorial, and construct the Memorial;
            (8) acquire from willing sellers the land or interests in 
        land for the Memorial site by donation, purchase with donated 
        or appropriated funds, or exchange; and
            (9) administer the Memorial as a unit of the National Park 
        System in accordance with this title and with the laws 
        generally applicable to units of the National Park System.

SEC. 104. ESTABLISHMENT OF NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established as a national monument in 
the State certain land administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in 
Los Angeles County comprising approximately 440 acres, as generally 
depicted on the map entitled ``Proposed Saint Francis Dam National 
Monument'', and dated June 18, 2015, to be known as the ``Saint Francis 
Dam Disaster National Monument''.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Monument is to conserve, protect, 
and enhance for the benefit and enjoyment of present and future 
generations the cultural, archaeological, historical, natural, 
wildlife, geological, ecological, watershed, educational, scenic, and 
recreational resources and values of the Monument.
    (c) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall manage 
        the Monument--
                    (A) in a manner that conserves, protects, and 
                enhances the cultural, historic, and ecological 
                resources of the Monument;
                    (B) protects, preserves, and enhances the Memorial; 
                and
                    (C) in accordance with--
                            (i) the Federal Land Policy and Management 
                        Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                            (ii) this Act; and
                            (iii) any other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
                allow only such uses of the Monument that the Secretary 
                determines would further the purpose described in 
                subsection (b).
                    (B) Use of motorized vehicles.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as needed for 
                        administrative purposes or to respond to an 
                        emergency, the use of motorized vehicles in the 
                        Monument shall be permitted only on roads 
                        designated for use by motorized vehicles in the 
                        management plan.
                            (ii) New roads.--No additional roads shall 
                        be built within the Monument after the date of 
                        enactment of this Act unless the road is 
                        necessary for public safety or natural resource 
                        protection.
                    (C) Grazing.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
                permit grazing within the Monument, where established 
                before the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) subject to all applicable laws 
                        (including regulations) and Executive orders; 
                        and
                            (ii) consistent with the purpose described 
                        in subsection (b).
                    (D) Utility right-of-way upgrades.--Nothing in this 
                section precludes the Secretary of Agriculture from 
                renewing or authorizing the upgrading (including 
                widening) of a utility right-of-way in existence as of 
                the date of enactment of this Act through the Monument 
                in a manner that minimizes harm to the purpose of the 
                Monument described in subsection (b)--
                            (i) in accordance with--
                                    (I) the National Environmental 
                                Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                                seq.); and
                                    (II) any other applicable law; and
                            (ii) subject to such terms and conditions 
                        as the Secretary of Agriculture determines to 
                        be appropriate.
                    (E) Rights-of-way.--Subject to applicable law, the 
                Secretary of Agriculture may issue rights-of-way for 
                watershed restoration projects and small-scale flood 
                prevention projects within the boundary of the Monument 
                if the right-of-way is consistent with the purpose of 
                the Monument described in subsection (b).
    (d) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        develop a management plan for the Monument.
            (2) Consultation.--The management plan shall be developed 
        in consultation with--
                    (A) the Department of the Interior and other 
                interested Federal agencies;
                    (B) State, tribal, and local governments; and
                    (C) the public.
            (3) Considerations.--In preparing and implementing the 
        management plan, the Secretary of Agriculture shall--
                    (A) consider the recommendations of the Secretary 
                of the Interior, Santa Clarita Valley Historical 
                Society, and the Community Hiking Club of Santa Clarita 
                on methods for providing access to, and protection for 
                the St. Francis Dam Memorial site; and
                    (B) include a watershed health assessment to 
                identify opportunities for watershed restoration.
    (e) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests in Land.--Any land 
or interest in land that is within the boundary of the Monument 
designated by subsection (a) that is acquired by the United States 
shall--
            (1) become part of the Monument; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with--
                    (A) this Act; and
                    (B) any other applicable laws.

SEC. 105. KNAPP RANCH POTENTIAL WILDERNESS AREA.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain public land in the State 
administered by the United States Forest Service, comprising 
approximately 620 acres, as generally depicted as ``Restoration Area'' 
on the map entitled ``Castaic Potential Wilderness'' and dated June 18, 
2015, is designated as a potential wilderness area.
    (b) Management.--Except as provided in subsection (c) and subject 
to valid existing rights, the Secretary shall manage the potential 
wilderness area as wilderness until the potential wilderness area is 
designated as wilderness under subsection (d).
    (c) Ecological Restoration.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of ecological restoration 
        (including the elimination of nonnative species, removal of 
        unsafe or inappropriate structures, unused or decommissioned 
        roads, and any other activities necessary to restore the 
        natural ecosystems in the potential wilderness area), the 
        Secretary may use motorized equipment and mechanized transport 
        in the potential wilderness area until the potential wilderness 
        area is designated as wilderness under subsection (d).
            (2) Limitation.--To the maximum extent practicable, the 
        Secretary shall use the minimum tool or administrative practice 
        necessary to accomplish ecological restoration with the least 
        amount of adverse impact on wilderness character and resources.
    (d) Eventual Wilderness Designation.--The potential wilderness area 
shall be designated as wilderness and as a component of the National 
Wilderness Preservation System on the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the Secretary publishes in the 
        Federal Register notice that the conditions in the potential 
        wilderness area that are incompatible with the Wilderness Act 
        (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) have been removed; or
            (2) the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act.
    (e) Administration as Wilderness.--On its designation as wilderness 
under subsection (d), the potential wilderness area shall be--
            (1) known as a component of the Castaic Wilderness; and
            (2) administered in accordance with section 201 and the 
        Wilderness Act.

SEC. 106. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Maps and Legal Descriptions.--
            (1) In general.--As soon as practicable after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file 
        maps and legal descriptions of the Monument and the wilderness 
        areas designated by this title with--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) Force of law.--The maps and legal descriptions filed 
        under paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        errors in the maps and legal descriptions.
            (3) Public availability.--The maps and legal descriptions 
        filed under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for 
        public inspection in the appropriate offices of the United 
        States Forest Service.
    (b) National Landscape Conservation System.--The Monument and the 
wilderness areas designated by this title shall be administered as 
components of the National Landscape Conservation System.
    (c) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife located on 
public land in the State, except that the Secretary, after consultation 
with the California Department of Fish and Wildlife, may designate 
zones where, and establish periods during which, no hunting or fishing 
shall be permitted for reasons of public safety, administration, or 
compliance with applicable law.
    (d) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal 
land within the Monument, the wilderness areas designated by this 
title, and any land or interest in land that is acquired by the United 
States in the Monument or wilderness areas after the date of enactment 
of this Act is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 107. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Memorial.--The term ``Memorial'' means the Saint 
        Francis Dam Disaster National Memorial established by section 
        101.
            (2) Monument.--The term ``Monument'' means the Saint 
        Francis Dam Disaster National Monument established by section 
        104.
            (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of 
        California.

         TITLE II--DESIGNATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS

SEC. 201. DESIGNATION AND ADMINISTRATION OF WILDERNESS.

    (a) Designation.--In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), certain lands in Los Angeles County, 
California, administered by the United States Forest Service, which 
comprise approximately 69,812 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
entitled ``Castaic Potential Wilderness'' and dated June 18, 2015, are 
hereby designated as wilderness and, therefore, as components of the 
National Wilderness Preservation System, which shall be known as the 
``Castaic Wilderness''.
    (b) Map and Legal Descriptions.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall file 
a map and a legal description for the wilderness area designated under 
this section with the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives. The map and description shall have the same force and 
effect as if included in this section, except that the Secretary of 
Agriculture may correct clerical and typographical errors in the legal 
description and map. The map and legal description shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate office of the United 
States Forest Service.
    (c) Management.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and wilderness additions designated by this section shall be 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with this 
title and the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the effective 
        date of that Act shall be considered to be a reference to the 
        date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (2) any reference in the Wilderness Act to the Secretary of 
        Agriculture shall be considered a reference to the Secretary 
        that has jurisdiction over the land.
    (d) Fire Management and Related Activities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may take such measures in a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by section 
        101 as are necessary for the control of fire, insects, and 
        diseases in accordance with section 4(d)(1) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(1)) and House Report 98-40 of the 98th 
        Congress.
            (2) Funding priorities.--Nothing in this title limits 
        funding for fire and fuels management in the wilderness areas 
        or wilderness additions designated by this title.
            (3) Revision and development of local fire management 
        plans.--As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall amend the local fire 
        management plans that apply to the land designated as a 
        wilderness area or wilderness addition by section 101.
            (4) Administration.--Consistent with paragraph (1) and 
        other applicable Federal law, to ensure a timely and efficient 
        response to fire emergencies in the wilderness areas or 
        wilderness additions designated by section 101, the Secretary 
        shall--
                    (A) not later than 1 year after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, establish agency approval 
                procedures (including appropriate delegations of 
                authority to the Forest Supervisor, District Manager, 
                or other agency officials) for responding to fire 
                emergencies; and
                    (B) enter into agreements with appropriate State or 
                local firefighting agencies.
    (e) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by section 101, if established before 
the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be permitted to continue, 
subject to such reasonable regulations as the Secretary considers 
necessary in accordance with--
            (1) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 
        1133(d)(4));
            (2) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of House Report 
        101-405, accompanying H.R. 2570 of the 101st Congress for lands 
        under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior;
            (3) the guidelines set forth in House Report 96-617, 
        accompanying H.R. 5487 of the 96th Congress for lands under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary of Agriculture; and
            (4) all other laws governing livestock grazing on Federal 
        public lands.
    (f) Fish and Wildlife.--
            (1) In general.--In accordance with section 4(d)(7) of the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(7)), nothing in this title 
        affects the jurisdiction or responsibilities of the State with 
        respect to fish and wildlife on public land in the State.
            (2) Management activities.--In furtherance of the purposes 
        and principles of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), 
        the Secretary may conduct any management activities that are 
        necessary to maintain or restore fish and wildlife populations 
        and habitats in the wilderness areas and wilderness additions 
        designated by section 101, if the management activities are--
                    (A) consistent with relevant wilderness management 
                plans; and
                    (B) conducted in accordance with appropriate 
                policies, such as the policies established in Appendix 
                B of House Report 101-405.
            (3) Wildlife water development projects.--Management 
        activities to maintain water sources for wildlife may be 
        carried out within wilderness areas designated by this title 
        and may include the use of motorized vehicles by the 
        appropriate agencies and their designees if--
                    (A) the water sources will, as determined by the 
                Secretary, enhance wilderness values by promoting 
                healthy and viable wildlife populations; and
                    (B) the visual impacts of the water sources on the 
                wilderness areas can reasonably be minimized.
    (g) Buffer Zones.--
            (1) In general.--Congress does not intend for designation 
        of wilderness by this title to lead to the creation of 
        protective perimeters or buffer zones around each wilderness 
        area or wilderness addition.
            (2) Activities or uses up to boundaries.--The fact that 
        nonwilderness activities or uses can be seen or heard from 
        within a wilderness area shall not, of itself, preclude the 
        activities or uses up to the boundary of the wilderness area.
    (h) Military Activities.--Nothing in this title precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over the 
        wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by section 
        101;
            (2) the designation of new units of special airspace over 
        the wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated by 
        section 101; or
            (3) the use or establishment of military flight training 
        routes over wilderness areas or wilderness additions designated 
        by section 101.
    (i) Horses.--Nothing in this title precludes horseback riding in, 
or the entry of recreational or commercial saddle or pack stock into, a 
wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by section 101--
            (1) in accordance with section 4(d)(5) of the Wilderness 
        Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)); and
            (2) subject to any terms and conditions determined to be 
        necessary by the Secretary.
    (j) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the wilderness 
areas and wilderness additions designated by section 101 are withdrawn 
from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the public land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (k) Incorporation of Acquired Land and Interests.--Any land within 
the boundary of a wilderness area or wilderness addition designated by 
section 101 that is acquired by the United States shall--
            (1) become part of the wilderness area in which the land is 
        located; and
            (2) be managed in accordance with this section, the 
        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), and any other 
        applicable law.
    (l) Climatological Data Collection.--In accordance with the 
Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and subject to such terms and 
conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, the Secretary may authorize 
the installation and maintenance of hydrologic, meteorological, or 
climatological collection devices in the wilderness areas and 
wilderness additions designated by section 101 if the Secretary 
determines that the facilities and access to the facilities are 
essential to flood warning, flood control, or water reservoir operation 
activities.
                                 <all>
