[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 173 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 173

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        March 26, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 2) to amend title XVIII of the Social 
Security Act to repeal the Medicare sustainable growth rate and strengthen 
Medicare access by improving physician payments and making other improvements, 
to reauthorize the Children's Health Insurance Program, and for other purposes. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment 
printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution 
shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy 
and Commerce and the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways 
and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  On any legislative day during the period from March 27, 2015, 
through April 10, 2015--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 3.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 2 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 4.  Each day during the period addressed by section 2 of this 
resolution shall not constitute a calendar day for purposes of section 7 of the 
War Powers Resolution (50 U.S.C. 1546).
    Sec. 5.  The Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Ways and 
Means each may, at any time before 5 p.m. on April 6, 2015, file reports to 
accompany measures.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
