[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1626 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1626

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
  To reduce duplication of information technology at the Department of 
               Homeland Security, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``DHS IT Duplication Reduction Act of 
2015''.
SEC. 2. DHS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY DUPLICATION REDUCTION.
    (a) Information Technology Duplication Reduction.--Not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief 
Information Officer of the Department of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate a report that includes the following:
        (1) The number of information technology systems at the 
    Department of Homeland Security.
        (2) An assessment of the number of such systems exhibiting 
    duplication or fragmentation.
        (3) A strategy for reducing such duplicative systems, including 
    an assessment of potential cost savings or cost avoidance as a 
    result of such reduction.
        (4) A methodology for determining which system should be 
    eliminated when there is duplication or fragmentation.
    (b) Definitions.--In this Act:
        (1) The term ``duplication or fragmentation'' of information 
    technology systems means two or more systems or programs that 
    deliver similar functionality to similar user populations.
        (2) The term ``information technology'' has the meaning given 
    such term in section 11101 of title 40, United States Code.
    (c) No New Authorization of Funding.--This section shall be carried 
out using amounts otherwise appropriated or made available to the 
Department of Homeland Security. No additional funds are authorized to 
be appropriated to carry out this section.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
