[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3016 Reported in House (RH)]

<DOC>





                                                 Union Calendar No. 274
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3016

                          [Report No. 114-358]

     To amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of 
           podiatrists in the Department of Veterans Affairs.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              July 9, 2015

  Mr. Wenstrup (for himself, Mr. Benishek, Mr. Roe of Tennessee, Mr. 
   Abraham, Mr. Ruiz, and Ms. Brownley of California) introduced the 
   following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Veterans' 
                                Affairs

                            December 1, 2015

  Additional sponsors: Mr. Wilson of South Carolina, Mr. Costello of 
Pennsylvania, Mrs. Radewagen, Mr. Coffman, Mr. Schiff, Mrs. Napolitano, 
 Mr. Smith of Texas, Mr. Blumenauer, Mr. Young of Iowa, and Mr. Israel

                            December 1, 2015

Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
 [Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert the part printed 
                               in italic]
[For text of introduced bill, see copy of bill as introduced on July 9, 
                                 2015]


_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of 
           podiatrists in the Department of Veterans Affairs.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Veterans 
Employment, Education, and Healthcare Improvement Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.

                     TITLE I--VETERANS HEALTH CARE

Sec. 101. Role of podiatrists in Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 102. Priority of medal of honor recipients in health care system 
                            of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 103. Improvement of care provided to newborn children.
Sec. 104. Comptroller General audit of budget of Veterans Health 
                            Administration.
Sec. 105. Outreach to veterans regarding effect of certain delayed 
                            payments by Department of Veterans Affairs 
                            Chief Business Office.
Sec. 106. Department of Veterans Affairs pilot program on dog training 
                            therapy.

 TITLE II--VETERANS ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AND TRANSITION ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 201. Establishment of Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition 
                            Administration.
Sec. 202. Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
                            Transition.
Sec. 203. Transfer of Department of Labor veterans programs to 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 204. Deputy Under Secretary of Veterans Affairs for Veterans' 
                            Employment, Training, and Transition.
Sec. 205. Additional technical and conforming amendments.
Sec. 206. Use of Federal directory of new hires.

     TITLE III--EDUCATION ASSISTANCE AND VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION

Sec. 301. Modification and improvement of transfer of unused education 
                            benefits to family members under Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs Post-9/11 Educational 
                            Assistance Program.
Sec. 302. Clarification of eligibility for Marine Gunnery Sergeant John 
                            David Fry Scholarship.
Sec. 303. Approval of courses of education and training for purposes of 
                            the vocational rehabilitation program of 
                            the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 304. Authority to prioritize vocational rehabilitation services 
                            based on need.
Sec. 305. Recodification and improvement of election process for Post-
                            9/11 Educational Assistance Program.
Sec. 306. Clarification of assistance provided for certain flight 
                            training and other programs of education.
Sec. 307. Consideration of certain time spent receiving medical care 
                            from Secretary of Defense as active duty 
                            for purposes of eligibility for post-9/11 
                            educational assistance.
Sec. 308. Work-study allowance.
Sec. 309. Vocational rehabilitation and education action plan.
Sec. 310. Reduction in redundancy and inefficiencies in vocational 
                            rehabilitation claims processing.

           TITLE IV--ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE

Sec. 401. Centralized reporting of veteran enrollment by certain 
                            groups, districts, and consortiums of 
                            educational institutions.
Sec. 402. Provision of information regarding veteran entitlement to 
                            educational assistance.
Sec. 403. Role of State approving agencies.
Sec. 404. Criteria used to approve courses.
Sec. 405. Compliance surveys.
Sec. 406. Survey of individuals using their entitlement to educational 
                            assistance under the educational assistance 
                            programs administered by the Secretary of 
                            Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 407. Improvement of information technology of the Veterans 
                            Benefits Administration of the Department 
                            of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 408. Technical amendment relating to in-State tuition rate for 
                            individuals to whom entitlement is 
                            transferred under All-Volunteer Force 
                            Educational Assistance Program and Post-9/
                            11 Educational Assistance.

                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

Sec. 501. Amount of loan guaranteed under home loan program of 
                            Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 502. Longitudinal study of job counseling, training, and placement 
                            service for veterans.
Sec. 503. Limitations on subcontracts under contracts with small 
                            business concerns owned and controlled by 
                            veterans.
Sec. 504. Procedures for provision of certain information to State 
                            veterans agencies to facilitate the 
                            furnishing of assistance and benefits to 
                            veterans.

                     TITLE I--VETERANS HEALTH CARE

SEC. 101. ROLE OF PODIATRISTS IN DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Inclusion as Physician.--
            (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 74 of title 38, 
        United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new section:
``Sec. 7413. Treatment of podiatrists
    ``For purposes of this chapter, the term `physician' includes a 
podiatrist.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 7412 the following new item:

``7413. Treatment of podiatrists.''.
            (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 7401(1) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``Physicians, dentists, podiatrists,'' and 
        inserting ``Physicians, dentists,''.
    (b) Qualifications.--Section 7402(b) of such title is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or of doctor 
                of osteopathy'' and inserting ``, doctor of osteopathy, 
                or doctor of podiatric medicine''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``podiatry,'' 
                after ``surgery,'';
            (2) by striking paragraph (5); and
            (3) by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (14) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (13), respectively.
    (c) Period of Appointment.--Section 7403(a)(2) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by striking subparagraph (C); and
            (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (H) as 
        subparagraphs (C) through (G), respectively.
    (d) Modification of Pay Grade.--
            (1) Grade.--The list in section 7404(b) of such title is 
        amended by striking ``CLINICAL PODIATRIST, CHIROPRACTOR, AND 
        OPTOMETRIST SCHEDULE'' and inserting ``CLINICAL CHIROPRACTOR 
        AND OPTOMETRIST SCHEDULE''.
            (2) Application.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall 
        apply with respect to a pay period of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs beginning on or after the date that is 30 days 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Contracts for Scarce Services.--Section 7409(a) of such title 
is amended by striking ``podiatrists,''.
    (f) Personnel Administration.--Section 7421(b) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (3) through (7), respectively.
    (g) Medical Directors.--Section 7306(a)(4) of such title is amended 
by inserting ``, doctor of podiatric medicine,'' after ``doctor of 
medicine''.
    (h) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to podiatrists employed by the Department of Veterans 
Affairs as of the date of the enactment of this Act or who are 
appointed on or after such date.

SEC. 102. PRIORITY OF MEDAL OF HONOR RECIPIENTS IN HEALTH CARE SYSTEM 
              OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Enrollment Priority.--Section 1705(a) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting the following: ``and veterans who were awarded the 
        medal of honor under section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or 
        section 491 of title 14.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``veterans who were 
        awarded the medal of honor under section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of 
        title 10 or section 491 of title 14,''.
    (b) Eligibility.--Section 1710(a)(2)(D) of such title is amended by 
inserting after ``war'' the following: ``, who was awarded the medal of 
honor under section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of 
title 14,''.
    (c) Extended Care Services.--Section 1710B(c)(2) of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) to a veteran who was awarded the medal of honor under 
        section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of title 
        14.''.
    (d) Copayment for Medications.--Section 1722A(a)(3) of such title 
is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'';
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) to a veteran who was awarded the medal of honor under 
        section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of title 10 or section 491 of title 
        14.''.
    (e) Application.--The priority of enrollment of medal of honor 
recipients pursuant to chapter 17 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by this section, shall apply to each such recipient, regardless 
of the date on which the medal is awarded.

SEC. 103. IMPROVEMENT OF CARE PROVIDED TO NEWBORN CHILDREN.

    Section 1786 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``seven days'' and 
        inserting ``42 days''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Annual Report.--Not later than October 31, 2016, and each 
year thereafter through 2020, the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
Senate a report on the health care services provided under subsection 
(a) during the fiscal year preceding the date of the report, including 
the number of newborn children who received such services during such 
fiscal year.''.

SEC. 104. COMPTROLLER GENERAL AUDIT OF BUDGET OF VETERANS HEALTH 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7330B. Comptroller General audit of VHA budget
    ``(a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall periodically conduct an audit of elements of the budget of the 
Veterans Health Administration, including the budget formulation, 
execution, allocation, and use of funds.
    ``(b) Selection of Elements.--(1) In selecting elements of the 
budget of the Veterans Health Administration for purposes of an audit 
under subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall take into 
consideration--
            ``(A) knowledge of the programs of the Veterans Health 
        Administration;
            ``(B) current issues;
            ``(C) national priorities; and
            ``(D) priorities expressed by the appropriate congressional 
        committees.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days before conducting an audit under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees notice of the elements selected by the 
Comptroller General for purposes of the audit.
    ``(c) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on the Budget of the Senate; 
        and
            ``(2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on the Budget of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
7330A the following new item:

``7330B. Comptroller General audit of VHA budget.''.

SEC. 105. OUTREACH TO VETERANS REGARDING EFFECT OF CERTAIN DELAYED 
              PAYMENTS BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS CHIEF BUSINESS 
              OFFICE.

    (a) Outreach.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall conduct 
outreach, including through national and local veterans service 
organizations, to inform veterans of how to resolve credit issues 
caused by delayed payment of a claim for emergency hospital care, 
medical services, or other emergency health care furnished through a 
non-Department of Veterans Affairs provider. The Secretary shall 
establish a toll-free telephone number for veterans to report such 
credit issues to the Chief Business Office of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--During the five-year period beginning on 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall annually submit to Congress a report on 
        the effectiveness of the Chief Business Office in providing 
        timely payment of proper invoices for emergency hospital care, 
        medical services, or other emergency health care furnished 
        through non-Department of Veterans Affairs providers by the 
        required payment date during both the five-year period 
        preceding the date of the report and the one-year period 
        preceding such date. For any part of the period covered by a 
        report under this subsection that occurred before October 1, 
        2014, the report shall evaluate the provision of such payments 
        by the Veterans Integrated Service Networks.
            (2) Matters included.--The reports under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for each period covered by the report, the 
        following:
                    (A) The number of veterans who contacted the 
                Secretary regarding a delayed payment that negatively 
                affected, or will potentially negatively affect, the 
                credit of the veteran.
                    (B) The total amount of interest penalties paid by 
                the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under section 3902 of 
                title 31, United States Code, by reason of a delayed 
                payment.
                    (C) The number of proper invoices submitted, listed 
                in a table for each quarter and fiscal year of each 
                such period that includes--
                            (i) the total amount owed by the Secretary 
                        under the proper invoices;
                            (ii) the payment status of each proper 
                        invoice, as of the date of the report; and
                            (iii) the period that elapsed until each 
                        proper invoice was paid, including an 
                        explanation of any delayed payment.
                    (D) Any comments regarding delayed payments made by 
                medical providers.
                    (E) A description of the best practices that the 
                Chief Business Office can carry out to provide timely 
                payment of a proper invoice, including a plan to 
                improve such timely payments.
    (c) Quarterly Reports on Pending Claims.--During the five-year 
period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief 
Business Office of the Department of Veterans Affairs shall submit to 
Congress quarterly reports on the number of pending claims for 
reimbursement for emergency hospital care, medical services, and other 
emergency health care furnished through non-Department of Veterans 
Affairs providers. Each such report shall include each of the 
following:
            (1) The total number of such pending claims for each 
        hospital system of the Department, as of the last day of the 
        quarter covered by the report.
            (2) The total number of veterans who submitted such a 
        pending claim in each State, as of such day.
            (3) The aggregate amount of all such pending claims in each 
        State, as of such day.
            (4) As of such day--
                    (A) the number of such pending claims that have 
                been pending for 30 days or longer;
                    (B) the number of such pending claims that have 
                been pending for 90 days or longer; and
                    (C) the number of such pending claims that have 
                been pending for 365 days or longer.
            (5) For each hospital system, for the quarter covered by 
        the report--
                    (A) the number of claims for reimbursement for 
                emergency hospital care, medical services, and other 
                emergency health care furnished through non-Department 
                of Veterans Affairs providers approved during such 
                quarter;
                    (B) the number of such claims denied during such 
                quarter; and
                    (C) the number of such claims denied listed by each 
                denial reason group.
    (d) Comptroller General Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study that evaluates the effectiveness 
        of the Chief Business Office in providing timely payment of a 
        proper invoice for emergency hospital care, medical services, 
        or other emergency health care furnished through non-Department 
        of Veterans Affairs providers by the required payment date.
            (2) Submittal.--The Comptroller General shall submit to 
        Congress a report on the study conducted under paragraph (1), 
        including the total amount of interest penalties paid by the 
        Secretary of Veterans Affairs under section 3902 of title 31, 
        United States Code, by reason of a delayed payment.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``delayed payment'' means a proper invoice 
        that is not paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs until 
        after the required payment date.
            (2) The term ``proper invoice'' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 3901(a) of title 31, United States Code.
            (3) The term ``required payment date'' means the date that 
        payment is due for a contract pursuant to section 3903(a) of 
        title 31, United States Code.

SEC. 106. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS PILOT PROGRAM ON DOG TRAINING 
              THERAPY.

    (a) In General.--Commencing not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of the Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
carry out a pilot program under which the Secretary shall enter into a 
contract with one or more appropriate non-government entities for the 
purpose of assessing the effectiveness of addressing post-deployment 
mental health and post-traumatic stress disorder symptoms through a 
therapeutic medium of training service dogs for veterans with 
disabilities.
    (b) Duration of Pilot Program.--The pilot program required by 
subsection (a) shall be carried out during the five-year period 
beginning on the date of the commencement of the pilot program.
    (c) Locations of Pilot Program.--In entering into contracts for 
purposes of the pilot program, the Secretary shall seek to enter into 
contracts with appropriate non-government entities located in close 
proximity to at least three but not more than five medical centers of 
the Department.
    (d) Appropriate Non-Government Entities.--For purposes of the pilot 
program, an appropriate non-government entity is an entity that is 
certified in the training and handling of service dogs and that has a 
training area that would be appropriate for use in educating veterans 
with mental health conditions in the art and science of service dog 
training and handling. Such training area shall--
            (1) include a dedicated space that is suitable for grooming 
        and training dogs indoors;
            (2) be wheelchair accessible;
            (3) include classroom or lecture space;
            (4) include office space for staff;
            (5) include a suitable space for storing training 
        equipment;
            (6) provide for periodic use of other training areas for 
        training the dogs with wheelchairs and conducting other 
        exercises;
            (7) include outdoor exercise and toileting space for dogs; 
        and
            (8) provide transportation for weekly field trips to train 
        dogs in other environments.
    (e) Design of Pilot Program.--Each contract entered into under 
subsection (a) shall provide that the non-government entity shall--
            (1) ensure that veterans participating in the program 
        receive training from certified service dog training 
        instructors;
            (2) ensure that in selecting assistance dogs for use in the 
        program, dogs residing in animal shelters or foster homes are 
        looked at as an option, if appropriate, and ensure that all 
        dogs used in the program have adequate temperament and health 
        clearances;
            (3) ensure that each service dog in training participating 
        in the pilot program is taught all essential commands 
        pertaining to service dog skills;
            (4) ensure that each service dog in training lives at the 
        pilot program site or a volunteer foster home in the vicinity 
        of such site while receiving training;
            (5) ensure that the pilot program involves both lecture of 
        service dog training methodologies and practical hands-on 
        training and grooming of service dogs; and
            (6) ensure that the pilot program is designed to--
                    (A) maximize the therapeutic benefits to veterans 
                participating in the program; and
                    (B) provide well-trained service dogs to veterans 
                with disabilities; and
            (7) in hiring service dog training instructors to carry out 
        training under the pilot program, give a preference to veterans 
        who have successfully graduated from post-traumatic stress 
        disorder or other residential treatment programs and who have 
        received adequate certification in service dog training.
    (f) Administration.--In order to carry out the pilot program under 
section (a), the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall--
            (1) administer the program through the Recreation Therapy 
        Service of the Department of Veterans Affairs under the 
        direction of a certified recreational therapist with sufficient 
        administrative experience to oversee the pilot program; and
            (2) establish a director of service dog training with a 
        background working in social services, experience in teaching 
        others to train service dogs in a vocational setting, and at 
        least one year of experience working with veterans or active 
        duty service members with post-traumatic stress disorder in a 
        clinical setting.
    (g) Veteran Eligibility.--The Secretary shall select veterans for 
participation in the pilot program. A veteran with post-traumatic 
stress disorder or other post-deployment mental health condition may 
volunteer to participate in the pilot program, if the Secretary 
determines that there are adequate program resources available for such 
veteran at the pilot program site. Veterans may participate in the 
pilot program in conjunction with the compensated work therapy program 
of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
    (h) Collection of Data.--The Secretary shall collect data on the 
pilot program required under subsection (a) to determine how effective 
the program is for the veterans participating in the program. Such data 
shall include data to determine how effectively the program assists 
veterans in--
            (1) reducing stigma associated with post-traumatic stress 
        disorder or other post-deployment mental health condition;
            (2) improving emotional regulation;
            (3) improving patience;
            (4) instilling or re-establishing a sense of purpose;
            (5) providing an opportunity to help fellow veterans;
            (6) reintegrating into the community;
            (7) exposing the dog to new environments and in doing so, 
        helping the veteran reduce social isolation and withdrawal;
            (8) building relationship skills, including parenting 
        skills;
            (9) relaxing the hyper-vigilant survival state;
            (10) improving sleep patterns; and
            (11) enabling veterans to decrease the use of pain 
        medication.
    (i) Reports to Congress.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the commencement of the pilot program under subsection (a), and each 
year thereafter for the duration of the pilot program, the Secretary 
shall submit to Congress a report on the pilot program. Each such 
report shall include--
            (1) the number of veterans participating in the pilot 
        program;
            (2) a description of the services carried out under the 
        pilot program;
            (3) the effects that participating in the pilot program has 
        on the following--
                    (A) symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder and 
                post-deployment adjustment difficulties, including 
                depression, maintenance of sobriety, suicidal 
                ideations, and homelessness;
                    (B) potentially relevant physiological markers that 
                possibly relate to the interactions with the service 
                dogs;
                    (C) family dynamics;
                    (D) insomnia and pain management; and
                    (E) overall well-being; and
            (4) the recommendations of the Secretary with respect to 
        the extension or expansion of the pilot program.
    (j) Definition.--For the purposes of this section, the term 
``service dog training instructor'' means an instructor who provides 
the direct training of veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder and 
other post-deployment issues in the art and science of service dog 
training and handling.

 TITLE II--VETERANS ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AND TRANSITION ADMINISTRATION

SEC. 201. ESTABLISHMENT OF VETERANS ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AND TRANSITION 
              ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration.--
            (1) In general.--Part V of title 38, United States Code, is 
        amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:

      ``CHAPTER 80--VETERANS ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AND TRANSITION 
                             ADMINISTRATION

``Sec.
``8001. Organization of Administration.
``8002. Functions of Administration.
``Sec. 8001. Organization of Administration
    ``(a) Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition 
Administration.--There is in the Department of Veterans Affairs a 
Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration. The 
primary function of the Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition 
Administration is the administration of the programs of the Department 
that provide assistance related to economic opportunity to veterans and 
their dependents and survivors.
    ``(b) Under Secretary for Economic Opportunity and Transition.--The 
Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration is under 
the Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition, 
who is directly responsible to the Secretary for the operations of the 
Administration.
    ``(c) Deputy Under Secretaries.--The Veterans Economic Opportunity 
and Transition Administration shall have two Deputy Under Secretaries 
as follows:
            ``(1) The Deputy Under Secretary for Readjustment, who 
        shall be the principal assistant of the Under Secretary for 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition with respect to 
        the programs specified in paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 
        8002 of this title.
            ``(2) The Deputy Under Secretary for Employment, Training, 
        and Transition, who shall be the principal assistant of the 
        Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
        Transition with respect to the programs specified in paragraphs 
        (5) through (9) of section 8002 of this title.
``Sec. 8002. Functions of Administration
    ``The Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration 
is responsible for the administration of the following programs of the 
Department:
            ``(1) Vocational rehabilitation and employment programs.
            ``(2) Educational assistance programs.
            ``(3) Veterans' housing loan and related programs.
            ``(4) The verification of small businesses owned and 
        controlled by veterans pursuant to subsection (f) of section 
        8127 of this title, including the administration of the 
        database of veteran-owned businesses described in such 
        subsection.
            ``(5) Job counseling, training, and placement services for 
        veterans under chapter 41 of this title.
            ``(6) Employment and training of veterans under chapter 42 
        of this title.
            ``(7) Administration of employment and employment rights of 
        members of the uniformed services under chapter 43 of this 
        title.
            ``(8) Homeless veterans reintegration programs under 
        chapter 20 of this title.
            ``(9) The Transition Assistance Program under section 1144 
        of title 10.
            ``(10) Any other program of the Department that the 
        Secretary determines appropriate.''.
            (2) Clerical amendments.--The tables of chapters at the 
        beginning of title 38, United States Code, and of part V of 
        title 38, United States Code, are each amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to chapter 79 the following new item:

``80.  Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition             8001''.
                            Administration.
    (b) Effective Date.--Chapter 80 of title 38, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a) shall take effect on October 1, 2016.
    (c) Full-Time Employees.--For fiscal years 2017 and 2018, the total 
number of full-time equivalent employees authorized for the Veterans 
Benefits Administration and the Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
Transition Administration, as established under chapter 80 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), may not exceed 22,118.
    (d) Homeless Veterans Reintegration Programs.--Nothing in section 
8002 of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), or in 
any other amendment made by this title, shall affect the provision of 
funds to grant recipients under section 2021 or 2021A of title 38, 
United States Code.

SEC. 202. UNDER SECRETARY FOR VETERANS ECONOMIC OPPORTUNITY AND 
              TRANSITION.

    (a) Under Secretary.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 3 of title 38, United States Code, 
        is amended by inserting after section 306 the following new 
        section:
``Sec. 306A. Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
              Transition
    ``(a) Under Secretary.--There is in the Department an Under 
Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition, who is 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate. The Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
Transition shall be appointed without regard to political affiliation 
or activity and solely on the basis of demonstrated ability in--
            ``(1) information technology; and
            ``(2) the administration of programs within the Veterans 
        Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration or programs 
        of similar content and scope.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Under Secretary for Veterans Economic 
Opportunity and Transition is the head of, and is directly responsible 
to the Secretary for the operations of, the Veterans Economic 
Opportunity and Transition Administration.
    ``(c) Vacancies.--(1) Whenever a vacancy in the position of Under 
Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition occurs or is 
anticipated, the Secretary shall establish a commission to recommend 
individuals to the President for appointment to the position.
    ``(2) A commission established under this subsection shall be 
composed of the following members appointed by the Secretary:
            ``(A) Three persons representing education and training, 
        vocational rehabilitation, employment, real estate, mortgage 
        finance and related industries, and survivor benefits 
        activities affected by the Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
        Transition Administration.
            ``(B) Two persons representing veterans served by the 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration.
            ``(C) Two persons who have experience in the management of 
        private sector benefits programs of similar content and scope 
        to the economic opportunity and transition programs of the 
        Department.
            ``(D) The Deputy Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            ``(E) The chairman of the Veterans' Advisory Committee on 
        Education formed under section 3692 of this title.
            ``(F) One person who has held the position of Under 
        Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition, if 
        the Secretary determines that it is desirable for such person 
        to be a member of the commission.
    ``(3) A commission established under this subsection shall 
recommend at least three individuals for appointment to the position of 
Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition. The 
commission shall submit all recommendations to the Secretary. The 
Secretary shall forward the recommendations to the President and the 
Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of 
Representatives with any comments the Secretary considers appropriate. 
Thereafter, the President may request the commission to recommend 
additional individuals for appointment.
    ``(4) The Assistant Secretary or Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs who performs personnel management and labor relations 
functions shall serve as the executive secretary of a commission 
established under this subsection.
    ``(d) Qualifications of Recommended Individuals.--Each individual 
recommended to the President by the commission for appointment to the 
position of Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
Transition shall be an individual who has held a senior level position 
in the private sector with responsibilities relating to at least one of 
the following:
            ``(1) Education policy.
            ``(2) Vocational rehabilitation.
            ``(3) Employment.
            ``(4) Job placement.
            ``(5) Home loan finance.
            ``(6) Small business development.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 306 the following new item:

``306A. Under Secretary for Veterans Economic Opportunity and 
                            Transition.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Title 38, United States Code, is 
further amended--
            (1) in section 306(c)(2), by striking subparagraphs (A) and 
        (E) and redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (F), as 
        subparagraphs (A) through (D), respectively;
            (2) in section 317(d)(2), by inserting after ``Under 
        Secretary for Benefits,'' the following: ``the Under Secretary 
        for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition,'';
            (3) in section 318(d)(2), by inserting after ``Under 
        Secretary for Benefits,'' the following: ``the Under Secretary 
        for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition,'';
            (4) in section 516(e)(2)(C), by striking ``Health and the 
        Under Secretary for Benefits'' and inserting ``Health, the 
        Under Secretary for Benefits, and the Under Secretary for 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition'';
            (5) in section 541(a)(2)(B), by striking ``Health and the 
        Under Secretary for Benefits'' and inserting ``Health, the 
        Under Secretary for Benefits, and the Under Secretary for 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition'';
            (6) in section 542(a)(2)(B)(iii), by striking ``Health and 
        the Under Secretary for Benefits'' and inserting ``Health, the 
        Under Secretary for Benefits, and the Under Secretary for 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition'';
            (7) in section 544(a)(2)(B)(vi), by striking ``Health and 
        the Under Secretary for Benefits'' and inserting ``Health, the 
        Under Secretary for Benefits, and the Under Secretary for 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition'';
            (8) in section 709(c)(2)(A), by inserting after ``Under 
        Secretary for Benefits,'' the following: ``the Under Secretary 
        for Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition,'';
            (9) in section 7701(a), by inserting after ``assistance'' 
        the following: ``, other than assistance related to Economic 
        Opportunity and Transition,''; and
            (10) in section 7703, by striking paragraphs (2) and (3) 
        and redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (2) and 
        (3), respectively.
    (c) Effective Date.--Section 306A of title 38, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), and the amendments made by this section, 
shall take effect on October 1, 2016.

SEC. 203. TRANSFER OF DEPARTMENT OF LABOR VETERANS PROGRAMS TO 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Transfer of Functions.--
            (1) In general.--Effective October 1, 2016, there shall be 
        transferred to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs all functions 
        performed under the following programs of the Department of 
        Labor, and all personnel, assets, and liabilities pertaining to 
        such programs, immediately before such transfer occurs:
                    (A) Job counseling, training, and placement 
                services for veterans under chapter 41 of title 38, 
                United States Code.
                    (B) Employment and training of veterans under 
                chapter 42 of such title.
                    (C) Administration of employment and employment 
                rights of members of the uniformed services under 
                chapter 43 of such title.
                    (D) Homeless veterans reintegration programs under 
                chapter 20 of such title.
            (2) Organization.--The programs, and the personnel, assets, 
        and liabilities pertaining to such programs, transferred to the 
        Secretary under paragraph (1) shall be administered as part of 
        the Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition Administration 
        established by section 8001 of title 38, United States Code, as 
        added by section 201.
    (b) Budget Request.--Under section 1105 of title 31, United States 
Code, the President shall include in the President's budget request for 
the Department of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2017, and for each 
subsequent fiscal year, funding requested for the functions referred to 
in subsection (a)(1).
    (c) References.--Any reference in any other Federal law, Executive 
order, rule, regulation, or delegation of authority, or any document of 
or pertaining to a department or office from which a function is 
transferred by this section--
            (1) to the head of such department or office is deemed to 
        refer to the head of the department or office to which such 
        function is transferred; or
            (2) to such department or office is deemed to refer to the 
        department or office to which such function is transferred.
    (d) Exercise of Authorities.--Except as otherwise provided by law, 
a Federal official to whom a function is transferred by this section 
may, for purposes of performing the function, exercise all authorities 
under any other provision of law that were available with respect to 
the performance of that function to the official responsible for the 
performance of the function immediately before the effective date of 
the transfer of the function under this section.
    (e) Savings Provisions.--
            (1) Legal documents.--All orders, determinations, rules, 
        regulations, permits, grants, loans, contracts, agreements, 
        certificates, licenses, and privileges--
                    (A) that have been issued, made, granted, or 
                allowed to become effective by the President, the 
                Secretary of Labor, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, 
                any officer or employee of any office transferred by 
                this section, or any other Government official, or by a 
                court of competent jurisdiction, in the performance of 
                any function that is transferred by this section, and
                    (B) that are in effect on the effective date of 
                such transfer (or become effective after such date 
                pursuant to their terms as in effect on such effective 
                date),
        shall continue in effect according to their terms until 
        modified, terminated, superseded, set aside, or revoked in 
        accordance with law by the President, any other authorized 
        official, a court of competent jurisdiction, or operation of 
        law.
            (2) Proceedings.--This section shall not affect any 
        proceedings or any application for any benefits, service, 
        license, permit, certificate, or financial assistance pending 
        on the date of the enactment of this section before an office 
        transferred by this section, but such proceedings and 
        applications shall be continued. Orders shall be issued in such 
        proceedings, appeals shall be taken therefrom, and payments 
        shall be made pursuant to such orders, as if this section had 
        not been enacted, and orders issued in any such proceeding 
        shall continue in effect until modified, terminated, 
        superseded, or revoked by a duly authorized official, by a 
        court of competent jurisdiction, or by operation of law. 
        Nothing in this subsection shall be considered to prohibit the 
        discontinuance or modification of any such proceeding under the 
        same terms and conditions and to the same extent that such 
        proceeding could have been discontinued or modified if this 
        section had not been enacted.
            (3) Suits.--This section shall not affect suits commenced 
        before the date of the enactment of this section, and in all 
        such suits, proceeding shall be had, appeals taken, and 
        judgments rendered in the same manner and with the same effect 
        as if this section had not been enacted.
            (4) Nonabatement of actions.--No suit, action, or other 
        proceeding commenced by or against the Department of Labor or 
        the Secretary of Labor, or by or against any individual in the 
        official capacity of such individual as an officer or employee 
        of an office transferred by this section, shall abate by reason 
        of the enactment of this section.
            (5) Continuance of suits.--If any Government officer in the 
        official capacity of such officer is party to a suit with 
        respect to a function of the officer, and under this section 
        such function is transferred to any other officer or office, 
        then such suit shall be continued with the other officer or the 
        head of such other office, as applicable, substituted or added 
        as a party.
            (6) Administrative procedure and judicial review.--Except 
        as otherwise provided by this section, any statutory 
        requirements relating to notice, hearings, action upon the 
        record, or administrative or judicial review that apply to any 
        function transferred by this section shall apply to the 
        exercise of such function by the head of the Federal agency, 
        and other officers of the agency, to which such function is 
        transferred by this section.
    (f) Transfer of Assets.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
section, so much of the personnel, property, records, and unexpended 
balances of appropriations, allocations, and other funds employed, 
used, held, available, or to be made available in connection with a 
function transferred to an official or agency by this section shall be 
available to the official or the head of that agency, respectively, at 
such time or times as the Director of the Office of Management and 
Budget directs for use in connection with the functions transferred.
    (g) Delegation and Assignment.--Except as otherwise expressly 
prohibited by law or otherwise provided in this section, an official to 
whom functions are transferred under this section (including the head 
of any office to which functions are transferred under this section) 
may delegate any of the functions so transferred to such officers and 
employees of the office of the official as the official may designate, 
and may authorize successive redelegations of such functions as may be 
necessary or appropriate. No delegation of functions under this section 
or under any other provision of this section shall relieve the official 
to whom a function is transferred under this section of responsibility 
for the administration of the function.
    (h) Authority of Director of the Office of Management and Budget 
With Respect to Functions Transferred.--
            (1) Determinations.--If necessary, the Director of 
        Management and Budget shall make any determination of the 
        functions that are transferred under this section.
            (2) Incidental transfers.--The Director, at such time or 
        times as the Director shall provide, may make such 
        determinations as may be necessary with regard to the functions 
        transferred by this section, and to make such additional 
        incidental dispositions of personnel, assets, liabilities, 
        grants, contracts, property, records, and unexpended balances 
        of appropriations, authorizations, allocations, and other funds 
        held, used, arising from, available to, or to be made available 
        in connection with such functions, as may be necessary to carry 
        out the provisions of this section. The Director shall provide 
        for the termination of the affairs of all entities terminated 
        by this section and for such further measures and dispositions 
        as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this section.
    (i) Certain Vesting of Functions Considered Transfers.--For 
purposes of this section, the vesting of a function in a department or 
office pursuant to reestablishment of an office shall be considered to 
be the transfer of the function.
    (j) Availability of Existing Funds.--Existing appropriations and 
funds available for the performance of functions, programs, and 
activities terminated pursuant to this section shall remain available, 
for the duration of their period of availability, for necessary 
expenses in connection with the termination and resolution of such 
functions, programs, and activities.
    (k) Memorandum of Understanding.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
and the Secretary of Labor shall--
            (1) enter into a memorandum of understanding to carry out 
        this section, which shall include--
                    (A) a description of how the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs will coordinate with the Employment and 
                Training Agency at the Department of Labor to ensure 
                coordination and avoid duplication among activities 
                authorized the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act 
                (Public Law 113-128) and the activities referred to in 
                subsection (a)(1)(A) through (D); and
                    (B) a description of how the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs will share the performance accountability 
                measures required under subsection (l)(1) with the 
                Employment and Training Agency of the Department of 
                Labor; and
            (2) jointly submit to the Committee on Veterans' Affairs 
        and the Committee on Education and the Workforce of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and 
        the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the 
        Senate a copy of such memorandum.
    (l) Coordination With Requirements Under WIOA.--
            (1) Performance accountability.--The Secretary of Veterans 
        Affairs shall establish performance accountability measures for 
        the activities carried out pursuant to the programs referred to 
        in subsection(a)(1)(A) through (D), which shall meet or exceed 
        the requirements of section 116(b) of the Workforce Innovation 
        and Opportunity Act (Public Law 113-128; 29 U.S.C. 3141).
            (2) State plans.--The Secretary shall ensure that each 
        State develops and submits to the Secretary a combined State 
        plan that meets or exceeds the requirements under section 103 
        of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (Public Law 
        113-128; 29 U.S.C. 3113) for activities authorized under 
        chapter 41 of title 38, United States Code.
    (m) Definitions.--For purposes of this section--
            (1) the term ``function'' includes any duty, obligation, 
        power, authority, responsibility, right, privilege, activity, 
        or program; and
            (2) the term ``office'' includes any office, 
        administration, agency, bureau, institute, council, unit, 
        organizational entity, or component thereof.

SEC. 204. DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS FOR VETERANS' 
              EMPLOYMENT, TRAINING, AND TRANSITION.

    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 4102A of title 38, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Deputy Under Secretary for Veterans' Employment, Training, 
and Transition.--(1) The Deputy Under Secretary for Employment, 
Training, and Transition established by subsection (c)(2) of section 
8001 of this title shall formulate and implement all departmental 
policies and procedures to carry out this chapter and the other 
programs described in such subsection.
    ``(2) The employees of the Department administering chapter 43 of 
this title shall be administratively and functionally responsible to 
the Deputy Under Secretary for Employment, Training, and Transition.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--Chapter 41 of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended as follows:
            (1) The section heading of section 4102A of such title is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 4102A. Deputy Under Secretary for Veterans' Employment, 
              Training, and Transition; program functions; Regional 
              Administrators''.
            (2) The item relating to such section in the table of 
        sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended to read as 
        follows:

``4102A. Deputy Under Secretary for Veterans' Employment, Training, and 
                            Transition; program functions; Regional 
                            Administrators.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2016.

SEC. 205. ADDITIONAL TECHNICAL AND CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) Chapter 41.--Chapter 41 of title 38, United States Code, as 
amended by this title, is further amended as follows:
            (1) By striking ``Assistant Secretary of Labor for 
        Veterans' Employment and Training'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Deputy Under Secretary for Employment, Training, 
        and Transition''.
            (2) By striking ``Department of Labor'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Department''.
            (3) By striking ``Secretary of Labor'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Secretary''.
            (4) In section 4101, by striking paragraph (8).
            (5) In section 4102A(b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``such Assistant 
                Secretary'' and inserting ``such Deputy Under 
                Secretary''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and consulting 
                with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs''.
            (6) In section 4105(b), by striking ``and the Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs'' both places it appears.
            (7) By striking section 4108.
            (8) In the table of sections at the beginning of such 
        chapter, by striking the item relating to section 4108.
            (9) In section 4110(d), by striking paragraph (1) and 
        redesignating paragraphs (2) through (6) as paragraphs (1) 
        through (5), respectively.
            (10) In section 4110A(b), by striking ``Congress'' and 
        inserting ``the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate 
        and House of Representatives''.
            (11) In section 4114--
                    (A) by striking ``Assistant Secretary for Veterans' 
                Employment and Training'' each place it appears and 
                inserting ``Deputy Under Secretary for Employment, 
                Training, and Transition''; and
                    (B) in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (b) and 
                in subsections (c) and (d), by striking ``Assistant 
                Secretary'' each place it appears and inserting 
                ``Deputy Under Secretary''.
    (b) Chapter 42.--Chapter 42 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) By striking ``Secretary of Labor'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Secretary''.
            (2) By striking ``Department of Labor'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Department''.
    (c) Chapter 43.--Chapter 43 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In section 4303, by striking paragraph (11).
            (2) In section 4317(b)(2), by striking ``Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs'' and inserting ``Secretary''.
            (3) In section 4321, by striking ``(through the Veterans' 
        Employment and Training Service)''.
            (4) In section 4332(a)(1), by striking ``of Labor''.
            (5) In section 4333, by striking ``, the Secretary of 
        Defense, and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs'' and inserting 
        ``and the Secretary of Defense''.
    (d) Chapter 20.--Chapter 20 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
            (1) In section 2003(a)(4), by striking ``of the Department 
        of Labor''.
            (2) In section 2011(g)(2), by striking ``the Department of 
        Labor,''.
            (3) In section 2021--
                    (A) in subsection (b), by striking ``that 
                Secretary'' and inserting ``the Secretary'';
                    (B) in subsection (c)--
                            (i) by striking the subsection heading and 
                        inserting the following:
    ``(c) Administration Through Deputy Under Secretary for Veterans' 
Employment, Training, and Transition.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of 
                        Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training'' 
                        and inserting ``Deputy Under Secretary for 
                        Employment, Training, and Transition''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Secretary of Labor'' each place 
                it appears and inserting ``Secretary''.
            (4) In section 2021A--
                    (A) in subsection (c), by striking ``that 
                Secretary'' and inserting ``the Secretary'';
                    (B) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) by striking the subsection heading and 
                        inserting the following:
    ``(d) Administration Through Deputy Under Secretary for Veterans' 
Employment, Training, and Transition.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of 
                        Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training'' 
                        and inserting ``Deputy Under Secretary for 
                        Employment, Training, and Transition''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Secretary of Labor'' each place 
                it appears and inserting ``Secretary''.
            (5) In section 2023--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``and the 
                Secretary of Labor (hereinafter in this section 
                referred to as the `Secretaries')'';
                    (B) by striking ``Secretaries'' each place it 
                appears and inserting ``Secretary''; and
                    (C) in subsection (c)(4), by striking ``determine'' 
                and inserting ``determines''.
            (6) In section 2065(b)(5), by striking subparagraph (E) and 
        redesignating subparagraphs (F) through (H) as subparagraphs 
        (E) through (G), respectively.
            (7) In section 2066(a)(3), by striking subparagraph (A) and 
        redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (G) as subparagraphs 
        (A) through (F), respectively.
    (e) Other Provisions of Title 38.--Title 38, United States Code, is 
further amended as follows:
            (1) In section 542(a)(2)(B), by striking clause (i) and 
        redesignating clauses (ii) and (iii) as clauses (i) and (ii), 
        respectively.
            (2) In section 544(a)(2)(B), by striking clause (i) and 
        redesignating clauses (ii) through (vi) as clauses (i) through 
        (v), respectively.
            (3) In section 3118(b), by striking ``and the Assistant 
        Secretary for Veterans' Employment in the Department of 
        Labor''.
            (4) In section 3119(c), by striking ``the Assistant 
        Secretary for Veterans' Employment in the Department of 
        Labor,''.
            (5) In section 3121(a)(3), by striking ``the Assistant 
        Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training of the 
        Department of Labor'' and inserting ``the Under Secretary for 
        Veterans Economic Opportunity and Transition''.
            (6) In section 3692(a), by striking ``and the Assistant 
        Secretary of Labor for Veterans' Employment and Training shall 
        be ex officio members'' and inserting ``an ex officio member''.
            (7) In section 6306--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``shall arrange 
                with the Secretary of Labor for the State employment 
                service to match'' and inserting ``shall ensure that 
                the State employment service matches''; and
                    (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of Labor,''.
    (f) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2016.

SEC. 206. USE OF FEDERAL DIRECTORY OF NEW HIRES.

    Section 453A(h) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 653a(h)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) Secretary of veterans affairs.--The Secretary of 
        Veterans Affairs shall have access to information reported by 
        employers pursuant to subsection (b) of this section.''.

     TITLE III--EDUCATION ASSISTANCE AND VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION

SEC. 301. MODIFICATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF TRANSFER OF UNUSED EDUCATION 
              BENEFITS TO FAMILY MEMBERS UNDER DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Eligibility Requirements.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 3319 of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking ``six years'' and inserting ``ten years''; 
        and
            (2) by striking ``four more years'' and inserting ``two 
        more years''.
    (b) Commencement of Use.--Subsection (g)(1)(A) of such section is 
amended by striking ``six years'' and inserting ``ten years''.
    (c) Rate of Payment.--Subsection (h)(3)(B) of such section is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
except that the amount of the monthly stipend described in subsection 
(c)(1)(B) or (g)(3)(A)(ii) of section 3313, as the case may be, shall 
be payable in an amount equal to 50 percent of the amount of such 
stipend that would otherwise be payable under this chapter to the 
individual making the transfer''.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--Such section is further amended by 
striking ``armed forces'' each place it appears and inserting ``Armed 
Forces''.
    (e) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to an election to transfer entitlement under section 3319 
of title 38, United States Code, that is made on or after the date that 
is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 302. CLARIFICATION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR MARINE GUNNERY SERGEANT JOHN 
              DAVID FRY SCHOLARSHIP.

    (a) In General.--Section 701(d) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and 
Accountability Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 128 Stat. 1796; 38 
U.S.C. 3311 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Applicability.--
            ``(1) In general.--The amendments made by this section 
        shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as 
        applicable, commencing on or after January 1, 2015.
            ``(2) Deaths that occurred between september 11, 2001, and 
        december 31, 2005.--For purposes of section 3311(f)(2) of title 
        38, United States Code, any member of the Armed Forces who died 
        during the period beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending 
        on December 31, 2005, is deemed to have died on January 1, 
        2006.''.
    (b) Election on Receipt of Certain Benefits.--Section 3311(f) of 
title 38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``A surviving spouse'' 
        and inserting ``Except as provided in paragraph (4), a 
        surviving spouse'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
            ``(4) Exception for certain elections.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An election made under paragraph 
                (3) by a spouse described in subparagraph (B) may not 
                be treated as irrevocable if such election occurred 
                before the date of the enactment of this paragraph.
                    ``(B) Eligible surviving spouse.--A spouse 
                described in this subparagraph is an individual--
                            ``(i) who is entitled to assistance under 
                        subsection (a) pursuant to paragraph (9) of 
                        subsection (b); and
                            ``(ii) who was the spouse of a member of 
                        the Armed Forces who died during the period 
                        beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on 
                        December 31, 2005.''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Paragraph (5) of subsection (f) of 
section 3311 of title 38, United States Code, as redesignated by 
subsection (b)(2), is amended by striking ``that paragraph'' and 
inserting ``paragraph (9) of subsection (b)''.
    (d) Yellow Ribbon G.I. Education Enhancement Program.--Section 
3317(a) of such title is amended by striking ``paragraphs (1) and (2) 
of section 3311(b)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1), (2), and (9) of 
section 3311(b) of this title''.

SEC. 303. APPROVAL OF COURSES OF EDUCATION AND TRAINING FOR PURPOSES OF 
              THE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
              OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3104(b) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``To the 
maximum extent practicable, a course of education or training may be 
pursued by a veteran as part of a rehabilitation program under this 
chapter only if the course is approved for purposes of chapter 30 or 33 
of this title. The Secretary may waive the requirement under the 
preceding sentence to the extent the Secretary determines 
appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course of education or training pursued by a 
veteran who first begins a program of rehabilitation under chapter 31 
of title 38, United States Code, on or after the date that is one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 304. AUTHORITY TO PRIORITIZE VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION SERVICES 
              BASED ON NEED.

    Section 3104 of title 38, United States Code, as amended by section 
303, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c)(1) The Secretary shall have the authority to administer this 
chapter by prioritizing the provision of services under this chapter 
based on need, as determined by the Secretary. In evaluating need for 
purposes of this subsection, the Secretary shall consider disability 
ratings, the severity of employment handicaps, qualification for a 
program of independent living, income, and any other factor the 
Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(2) Not later than 90 days before making any changes to the 
prioritization of the provision of services under this chapter as 
authorized under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
a plan describing such changes.''.

SEC. 305. RECODIFICATION AND IMPROVEMENT OF ELECTION PROCESS FOR POST-
              9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3326. Election to receive educational assistance
    ``(a) Individuals Eligible to Elect Participation in Post-9/11 
Educational Assistance.--An individual may elect to receive educational 
assistance under this chapter if such individual--
            ``(1) as of August 1, 2009--
                    ``(A) is entitled to basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of the title and has used, but retains 
                unused, entitlement under that chapter;
                    ``(B) is entitled to educational assistance under 
                chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10 and has used, 
                but retains unused, entitlement under the applicable 
                chapter;
                    ``(C) is entitled to basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 of this title but has not used any 
                entitlement under that chapter;
                    ``(D) is entitled to educational assistance under 
                chapter 107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10 but has not used 
                any entitlement under such chapter;
                    ``(E) is a member of the Armed Forces who is 
                eligible for receipt of basic educational assistance 
                under chapter 30 this title and is making contributions 
                toward such assistance under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) 
                of this title; or
                    ``(F) is a member of the Armed Forces who is not 
                entitled to basic educational assistance under chapter 
                30 of this title by reason of an election under section 
                3011(c)(1) or 3012(d)(1) of this title; and
            ``(2) as of the date of the individual's election under 
        this paragraph, meets the requirements for entitlement to 
        educational assistance under this chapter.
    ``(b) Cessation of Contributions Toward GI Bill.--Effective as of 
the first month beginning on or after the date of an election under 
subsection (a) of an individual described by paragraph (1)(E) of that 
subsection, the obligation of the individual to make contributions 
under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title, as applicable, shall 
cease, and the requirements of such section shall be deemed to be no 
longer applicable to the individual.
    ``(c) Revocation of Remaining Transferred Entitlement.--
            ``(1) Election to revoke.--If, on the date an individual 
        described in paragraph (1)(A) or (1)(C) of subsection (a) makes 
        an election under that subsection, a transfer of the 
        entitlement of the individual to basic educational assistance 
        under section 3020 of this title is in effect and a number of 
        months of the entitlement so transferred remain unutilized, the 
        individual may elect to revoke all or a portion of the 
        entitlement so transferred that remains unutilized.
            ``(2) Availability of revoked entitlement.--Any entitlement 
        revoked by an individual under this paragraph shall no longer 
        be available to the dependent to whom transferred, but shall be 
        available to the individual instead for educational assistance 
        under chapter 33 of this title in accordance with the 
        provisions of this section.
            ``(3) Availability of unrevoked entitlement.--Any 
        entitlement described in paragraph (1) that is not revoked by 
        an individual in accordance with that paragraph shall remain 
        available to the dependent or dependents concerned in 
        accordance with the current transfer of such entitlement under 
        section 3020 of this title.
    ``(d) Post-9/11 Educational Assistance.--
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2) and except as 
        provided in subsection (e), an individual making an election 
        under subsection (a) shall be entitled to educational 
        assistance under this chapter in accordance with the provisions 
        of this chapter, instead of basic educational assistance under 
        chapter 30 this title, or educational assistance under chapter 
        107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10, as applicable.
            ``(2) Limitation on entitlement for certain individuals.--
        In the case of an individual making an election under 
        subsection (a) who is described by paragraph (1)(A) of that 
        subsection, the number of months of entitlement of the 
        individual to educational assistance under this chapter 33 
        shall be the number of months equal to--
                    ``(A) the number of months of unused entitlement of 
                the individual under chapter 30 of this title, as of 
                the date of the election, plus
                    ``(B) the number of months, if any, of entitlement 
                revoked by the individual under subsection (c)(1).
    ``(e) Continuing Entitlement to Educational Assistance Not 
Available Under 9/11 Assistance Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the event educational assistance to 
        which an individual making an election under subsection (a) 
        would be entitled under chapter 30 of this title, or chapter 
        107, 1606, or 1607 of title 10, as applicable, is not 
        authorized to be available to the individual under the 
        provisions of this chapter the individual shall remain entitled 
        to such educational assistance in accordance with the 
        provisions of the applicable chapter.
            ``(2) Charge for use of entitlement.--The utilization by an 
        individual of entitlement under paragraph (1) shall be 
        chargeable against the entitlement of the individual to 
        educational assistance under this chapter at the rate of one 
        month of entitlement under this chapter for each month of 
        entitlement utilized by the individual under paragraph (1) (as 
        determined as if such entitlement were utilized under the 
        provisions of chapter 30 of this title, or chapter 107, 1606, 
        or 1607 of title 10, as applicable).
    ``(f) Additional Post-9/11 Assistance for Members Having Made 
Contributions Toward GI Bill.--
            ``(1) Additional assistance.--In the case of an individual 
        making an election under subsection (a) who is described by 
        subparagraph (A), (C), or (E) of paragraph (1) of that 
        subsection, the amount of educational assistance payable to the 
        individual under this chapter 33 as a monthly stipend payable 
        under paragraph (1)(B) of section 3313(c) of this title, or 
        under paragraphs (2) through (7) of that section (as 
        applicable), shall be the amount otherwise payable as a monthly 
        stipend under the applicable paragraph increased by the amount 
        equal to--
                    ``(A) the total amount of contributions toward 
                basic educational assistance made by the individual 
                under section 3011(b) or 3012(c) of this title, as of 
                the date of the election, multiplied by
                    ``(B) the fraction--
                            ``(i) the numerator of which is--
                                    ``(I) the number of months of 
                                entitlement to basic educational 
                                assistance under chapter 30 of this 
                                title remaining to the individual at 
                                the time of the election; plus
                                    ``(II) the number of months, if 
                                any, of entitlement under such chapter 
                                30 revoked by the individual under 
                                subsection (c)(1); and
                            ``(ii) the denominator of which is 36 
                        months.
            ``(2) Months of remaining entitlement for certain 
        individuals.--In the case of an individual covered by paragraph 
        (1) who is described by subsection (a)(1)(E), the number of 
        months of entitlement to basic educational assistance remaining 
        to the individual for purposes of paragraph (1)(B)(i)(II) shall 
        be 36 months.
            ``(3) Timing of payment.--The amount payable with respect 
        to an individual under paragraph (1) shall be paid to the 
        individual together with the last payment of the monthly 
        stipend payable to the individual under paragraph (1)(B) of 
        section 3313(c) of this title, or under subsections (b) through 
        (g) of that section (as applicable), before the exhaustion of 
        the individual's entitlement to educational assistance under 
        this chapter.
    ``(g) Continuing Entitlement to Additional Assistance for Critical 
Skills or Speciality and Additional Service.--An individual making an 
election under subsection (a)(1) who, at the time of the election, is 
entitled to increased educational assistance under section 3015(d) of 
this title, or section 16131(i) of title 10, or supplemental 
educational assistance under subchapter III of chapter 30 of this 
title, shall remain entitled to such increased educational assistance 
or supplemental educational assistance in the utilization of 
entitlement to educational assistance under this chapter, in an amount 
equal to the quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, equivalent of 
the monthly amount of such increased educational assistance or 
supplemental educational assistance payable with respect to the 
individual at the time of the election.
    ``(h) Alternative Election by Secretary.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of an individual who, on or 
        after January 1, 2016, submits to the Secretary an election 
        under this section that the Secretary determines is clearly 
        against the interests of the individual, or who fails to make 
        an election under this section, the Secretary may make an 
        alternative election on behalf of the individual that the 
        Secretary determines is in the best interests of the 
        individual.
            ``(2) Notice.--If the Secretary makes an election on behalf 
        of an individual under this subsection, the Secretary shall 
        notify the individual by not later than seven days after making 
        such election and shall provide the individual with a 30-day 
        period, beginning on the date of the individual's receipt of 
        such notice, during which the individual may modify or revoke 
        the election made by the Secretary on the individual's behalf. 
        The Secretary shall include, as part of such notice, a clear 
        statement of why the alternative election made by the Secretary 
        is in the best interests of the individual as compared to the 
        election submitted by the individual. The Secretary shall 
        provide the notice required under this paragraph by electronic 
        means whenever possible.
    ``(i) Irrevocability of Elections.--An election under subsection 
(a) or (c)(1) is irrevocable.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``3326. Election to receive educational assistance.''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Subsection (c) of section 5003 of the Post-
9/11 Veterans Educational Assistance Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-252; 
38 U.S.C. 3301 note) is hereby repealed.

SEC. 306. CLARIFICATION OF ASSISTANCE PROVIDED FOR CERTAIN FLIGHT 
              TRAINING AND OTHER PROGRAMS OF EDUCATION.

    (a) Flight Training.--Subsection (c)(1)(A) of section 3313 of title 
38, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in clause (i)--
                    (A) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II) as 
                items (aa) and (bb), respectively;
                    (B) by striking ``In the case of a program of 
                education pursued at a public institution of higher 
                learning'' and inserting ``(I) Subject to subclause 
                (II), in the case of a program of education pursued at 
                a public institution of higher learning not described 
                in clause (ii)(II)(bb)''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new 
                subclause:
                            ``(II) In determining the actual net cost 
                        for in-State tuition and fees pursuant to 
                        subclause (I), the Secretary may not pay for 
                        tuition and fees relating to flight 
                        training.''; and
            (2) in clause (ii)--
                    (A) in subclause (I), by redesignating items (aa) 
                and (bb) as subitems (AA) and (BB), respectively;
                    (B) in subclause (II), by redesignating items (aa) 
                and (bb) as subitems (AA) and (BB), respectively;
                    (C) by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II) as 
                items (aa) and (bb), respectively;
                    (D) by striking ``In the case of a program of 
                education pursued at a non-public or foreign 
                institution of higher learning'' and inserting ``(I) In 
                the case of a program of education described in 
                subclause (II)''; and
                    (E) by adding at the end the following new 
                subclause:
                            ``(II) A program of education described in 
                        this subclause is any of the following:
                                    ``(aa) A program of education 
                                pursued at a non-public or foreign 
                                institution of higher learning.
                                    ``(bb) A program of education 
                                pursued at a public institution of 
                                higher learning in which flight 
                                training is required to earn the degree 
                                being pursued (including with respect 
                                to a dual major, concentration, or 
                                other element of such a degree).''.
    (b) Certain Programs of Education Carried Out Under Contract.--
Section 3313(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II) of title 38, United States Code, as added 
by subsection (a)(2)(E), is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:
                                    ``(cc) A program of education 
                                pursued at a public institution of 
                                higher learning in which the public 
                                institution of higher learning enters 
                                into a contract or agreement with an 
                                entity (other than another public 
                                institution of higher learning) to 
                                provide such program of education or a 
                                portion of such program of 
                                education.''.
    (c) Application.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), the 
        amendments made by subsection (a) and (b) shall apply with 
        respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, 
        commencing on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Special rule for current students.--In the case of an 
        individual who, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is 
        using educational assistance under chapter 33 of title 38, 
        United States Code, to pursue a course of education that 
        includes a program of education described in item (bb) or (cc) 
        of section 3313(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II) of title 38, United States 
        Code, as added by subsections (a) and (b), respectively, the 
        amendment made by such subsection shall apply with respect to a 
        quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, commencing on or 
        after the date that is two years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.

SEC. 307. CONSIDERATION OF CERTAIN TIME SPENT RECEIVING MEDICAL CARE 
              FROM SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AS ACTIVE DUTY FOR PURPOSES OF 
              ELIGIBILITY FOR POST-9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Section 3301(1)(B) of title 38, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting ``12301(h),'' after ``12301(g),''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to active duty service by a member of a reserve component 
covered by section 12301(h) of title 10, United States, beginning on or 
after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.

SEC. 308. WORK-STUDY ALLOWANCE.

    Section 3485(a)(4) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``June 30, 2013'' each place it appears and inserting ``June 
30, 2013, or the period beginning on June 30, 2016, and ending on June 
30, 2021''.

SEC. 309. VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION AND EDUCATION ACTION PLAN.

     Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall develop and publish an 
action plan for improving the services and assistance provided under 
chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code. Such plan shall include 
each of the following:
            (1) A comprehensive analysis of, and recommendations and a 
        proposed implementation plan for remedying workload management 
        challenges at regional offices of the Department of Veterans 
        Affairs, including steps to reduce counselor caseloads of 
        veterans participating in a rehabilitation program under such 
        chapter, particularly for counselors who are assisting veterans 
        with traumatic brain injury and post-traumatic stress disorder 
        and counselors with educational and vocational counseling 
        workloads.
            (2) A comprehensive analysis of the reasons for the 
        disproportionately low percentage of veterans with service-
        connected disabilities who served in the Armed Forces after 
        September 11, 2001, who opt to participate in a rehabilitation 
        program under such chapter relative to the percentage of such 
        veterans who use their entitlement to educational assistance 
        under chapter 33 of title 38, United States Code, including an 
        analysis of barriers to timely enrollment in rehabilitation 
        programs under chapter 31 of such title and of any barriers to 
        a veteran enrolling in the program of that veteran's choice.
            (3) Recommendations and a proposed implementation plan for 
        encouraging more veterans with service-connected disabilities 
        who served in the Armed Forces after September 11, 2001, to 
        participate in rehabilitation programs under chapter 31 of such 
        title.
            (4) A national staff training program for vocational 
        rehabilitation counselors of the Department that includes the 
        provision of--
                    (A) training to assist counselors in understanding 
                the very profound disorientation experienced by 
                warriors whose lives and life-plans have been upended 
                and out of their control because of their injury;
                    (B) training to assist counselors in working in 
                partnership with veterans on individual rehabilitation 
                plans; and
                    (C) training on post-traumatic stress disorder and 
                other mental health conditions and on moderate to 
                severe traumatic brain injury that is designed to 
                improve the ability of such counselors to assist 
                veterans with these conditions, including by providing 
                information on the broad spectrum of such conditions 
                and the effect of such conditions on an individual's 
                abilities and functional limitations.

SEC. 310. REDUCTION IN REDUNDANCY AND INEFFICIENCIES IN VOCATIONAL 
              REHABILITATION CLAIMS PROCESSING.

    (a) Vocational Rehabilitation Claims.--The Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs shall reduce redundancy and inefficiencies in the use of 
information technology to process claims for rehabilitation programs 
under chapter 31 of title 38, United States Code, by--
            (1) ensuring that all payments for and on behalf of 
        veterans participating in a rehabilitation program under such 
        chapter are only processed and paid out of one corporate 
        information technology system, in order to eliminate the 
        redundancy of multiple information technology payment systems; 
        and
            (2) enhancing the information technology system supporting 
        veterans participating in such a program to support more 
        accurate accounting of services and outcomes for such veterans.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2016 
$10,000,000 to carry out this section.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to Congress a report on the changes made pursuant to subsection (a).

           TITLE IV--ADMINISTRATION OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE

SEC. 401. CENTRALIZED REPORTING OF VETERAN ENROLLMENT BY CERTAIN 
              GROUPS, DISTRICTS, AND CONSORTIUMS OF EDUCATIONAL 
              INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3684(a) of title 38, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``32, 33,'' after 
        ``31,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) For purposes of this subsection, the term `educational 
institution' may include a group, district, or consortium of separately 
accredited educational institutions located in the same State that are 
organized in a manner that facilitates the centralized reporting of the 
enrollments in such group, district, or consortium of institutions.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to reports submitted on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

SEC. 402. PROVISION OF INFORMATION REGARDING VETERAN ENTITLEMENT TO 
              EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 36 of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 3699. Provision of certain information to educational 
              institutions
    ``For each veteran or other individual pursuing a course of 
education that has been approved under this chapter using educational 
assistance to which the veteran or other individual is entitled under 
chapter 30, 32, 33, or 35 of this title, the Secretary shall make 
available to the educational institution offering the course 
information about the amount of such educational assistance to which 
the veteran or other individual is entitled. Such information shall be 
provided to such educational institution through a secure information 
technology system accessible by the educational institution and shall 
be regularly updated to reflect any amounts used by the veteran or 
other individual.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
3698 the following new item:

``3699. Provision of certain information to educational 
                            institutions.''.

SEC. 403. ROLE OF STATE APPROVING AGENCIES.

    (a) Approval of Certain Courses.--Section 3672(b)(2)(A) of title 
38, United States Code, is amended by striking ``the following'' and 
all that follows through the colon and inserting the following: ``a 
program of education is deemed to be approved for purposes of this 
chapter if a State approving agency determines that the program is one 
of the following programs:''.
    (b) Approval of Other Courses.--Section 3675 of such title is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary or a State 
                approving agency'' and inserting ``A State approving 
                agency, or the Secretary when acting in the role of a 
                State approving agency,''; and
                    (B) by striking ``offered by proprietary for-profit 
                educational institutions'' and inserting ``not covered 
                by section 3672 of this title''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``the Secretary or the 
        State approving agency'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``the State approving agency, or the Secretary when acting in 
        the role of a State approving agency,''.

SEC. 404. CRITERIA USED TO APPROVE COURSES.

    (a) Nonaccredited Courses.--Section 3676(c)(14) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting before the period the following: 
``if the Secretary, in consultation with the State approving agency and 
pursuant to regulations prescribed to carry out this paragraph, 
determines such criteria are necessary and treat public, private, and 
proprietary for-profit educational institutions equitably''.
    (b) Accredited Courses.--Section 3675(b)(3) of such title is 
amended by striking ``and (3)'' and inserting ``(3), and (14)''.
    (c) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
with respect to--
            (1) criteria developed pursuant to paragraph (14) of 
        subsection (c) of section 3676 of title 38, United States Code, 
        on or after January 1, 2013; and
            (2) an investigation conducted under such subsection that 
        is covered by a reimbursement of expenses paid by the Secretary 
        of Veterans Affairs to a State pursuant to section 3674 of such 
        title on or after October 1, 2015.

SEC. 405. COMPLIANCE SURVEYS.

    (a) In General.--Section 3693 of such title is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following 
        new subsection (a):
    ``(a)(1) Except as provided in subsection (b), the Secretary shall 
conduct an annual compliance survey of educational institutions and 
training establishments offering one or more courses approved for the 
enrollment of eligible veterans or persons if at least 20 such veterans 
or persons are enrolled in any such course. The Secretary shall--
            ``(A) design the compliance surveys to ensure that such 
        institutions or establishments, as the case may be, and 
        approved courses are in compliance with all applicable 
        provisions of chapters 30 through 36 of this title;
            ``(B) survey each such educational institution and training 
        establishment not less than once during every two-year period; 
        and
            ``(C) assign not fewer than one education compliance 
        specialist to work on compliance surveys in any year for each 
        40 compliance surveys required to be made under this section 
        for such year.
    ``(2) The Secretary, in consultation with the State approving 
agencies, shall--
            ``(A) annually determine the parameters of the surveys 
        required under paragraph (1); and
            ``(B) not later than September 1 of each year, make 
        available to the State approving agencies a list of the 
        educational institutions and training establishments that will 
        be surveyed during the fiscal year following the date of making 
        such list available.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) In this section, the terms `educational institution' and 
`training establishment' have the meaning given such terms in section 
3452 of this title.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``subsection (a) of this section for an 
        annual compliance survey'' and inserting ``subsection (a)(1) 
        for a compliance survey'';
            (2) by striking ``institution'' and inserting ``educational 
        institution or training establishment''; and
            (3) by striking ``institution's demonstrated record of 
        compliance'' and inserting ``record of compliance of such 
        institution or establishment''.

SEC. 406. SURVEY OF INDIVIDUALS USING THEIR ENTITLEMENT TO EDUCATIONAL 
              ASSISTANCE UNDER THE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS 
              ADMINISTERED BY THE SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Survey Required.--By not later than 270 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
enter into a contract with a non-government entity for the conduct of a 
survey of a statistically valid sample of individuals who have used or 
are using their entitlement to educational assistance under chapters 
30, 32, 33, and 35 of title 38, United States Code, to pursue a program 
of education or training. The contract shall provide that--
            (1) not later than one month before the collection of data 
        under the survey begins, the survey shall be submitted to the 
        Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of 
        Representatives;
            (2) the non-government entity shall complete the survey and 
        submit to the Secretary the results of the survey by not later 
        than 180 days after entering into the contract; and
            (3) the survey shall be conducted by electronic means and 
        by any other means the non-government entity determines 
        appropriate.
    (b) Information To Be Collected.--The contract under subsection (a) 
shall provide that the survey shall be designed to collect the 
following types of information about each individual surveyed, where 
applicable:
            (1) Demographic information, including the highest level of 
        education completed by the individual, the military 
        occupational specialty or specialties of the individual while 
        serving on active duty as a member of the Armed Forces or as a 
        member of the National Guard or of a Reserve Component of the 
        Armed Forces, and whether the individual has a service-
        connected disability.
            (2) The opinion of the individual regarding participation 
        in the transition assistance program under section 1144 of 
        title 10, United States Code, and the effectiveness of the 
        program, including instruction on the use of the benefits under 
        laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
            (3) The resources the individual used to help the 
        individual--
                    (A) decide to use the individual's entitlement to 
                educational assistance to enroll in a program of 
                education or training; and
                    (B) choose the program of education or training the 
                individual pursued.
            (4) The individual's goal when the individual enrolled in 
        the program of education or training.
            (5) The nature of the individual's experience with the 
        education benefits processing system of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs.
            (6) The nature of the individual's experience with the 
        school certifying official of the educational institution where 
        the individual pursued the program of education or training who 
        processed the individual's claim.
            (7) Any services or benefits the educational institution or 
        program of education or training provided to veterans while the 
        individual pursued the program of education or training.
            (8) The type of educational institution at which the 
        individual pursued the program of education or training.
            (9) Whether the individual completed the program of 
        education or training or the number of credit hours completed 
        by the individual as of the time of the survey, and, if 
        applicable, any degree or certificate obtained by the 
        individual for completing the program.
            (10) The employment status of the individual and whether 
        such employment status differs from the employment status of 
        the individual prior to enrolling in the program of education 
        or training.
            (11) Whether the individual is or was enrolled in a program 
        of education on a full-time or part-time basis.
            (12) The opinion of the individual on the effectiveness of 
        the educational assistance program of the Department of 
        Veterans Affairs under which the individual was entitled to 
        educational assistance.
            (13) Whether the individual was ever entitled to a 
        rehabilitation under chapter 31 of title 38, United States 
        Code, and whether the individual participated in such a 
        program.
            (14) A description of any circumstances that prevented the 
        individual from using the individual's entitlement to 
        educational assistance to pursue a desired career path or 
        degree.
            (15) Whether the individual is using the individual's 
        entitlement to educational assistance to pursue a program of 
        education or training or has transferred such an entitlement to 
        a dependent.
            (16) Such other matters as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 90 days after receiving the results of 
the survey required under this section, the Secretary shall submit to 
the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House of 
Representatives a report on the results of the survey and any 
recommendations of the Secretary relating to such results. Such report 
shall also include an unedited version of the results of the survey 
submitted by the non-government entity that conducted the study.

SEC. 407. IMPROVEMENT OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY OF THE VETERANS 
              BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS 
              AFFAIRS.

    (a) Processing of Certain Educational Assistance Claims.--The 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall, to the maximum extent possible, 
make such changes and improvements to the information technology system 
of the Veterans Benefits Administration of the Department of Veterans 
Affairs to ensure that--
            (1) to the maximum extent possible, all original and 
        supplemental claims for educational assistance under chapter 33 
        of title 38, United States Code, are adjudicated 
        electronically; and
            (2) rules-based processing is used to make decisions with 
        respect to such claims with little human intervention.
    (b) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
submit to Congress a plan to implement the changes and improvements 
described in subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit 
to Congress a report on the implementation of the changes and 
improvements described in subsection (a).
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs $30,000,000 to carry 
out this section during fiscal years 2016 and 2017.

SEC. 408. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO IN-STATE TUITION RATE FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS TO WHOM ENTITLEMENT IS TRANSFERRED UNDER ALL-
              VOLUNTEER FORCE EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE PROGRAM AND POST-
              9/11 EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Technical Amendment.--Section 3679(c)(2)(B) of title 38, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``or 3319 of this title'' and all 
that follows and inserting ``of this title or to whom educational 
assistance is transferred under section 3319 of this title.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to a course, semester, or term that begins after 
July 1, 2016.

                         TITLE V--OTHER MATTERS

SEC. 501. AMOUNT OF LOAN GUARANTEED UNDER HOME LOAN PROGRAM OF 
              DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.

    (a) Adjustment of Loan Limit.--Section 3703(a)(1) of title 38, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A)(i)(IV)--
                    (A) by striking ``the lesser of''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or 25 percent of the loan''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``Freddie Mac'' and 
        all that follows through the period at the end and inserting 
        ``amount of the loan.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to a loan guaranteed under section 3710 of title 38, 
United States Code, on or after the date that is 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 502. LONGITUDINAL STUDY OF JOB COUNSELING, TRAINING, AND PLACEMENT 
              SERVICE FOR VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Chapter 41 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 4115. Longitudinal study of job counseling, training, and 
              placement service for veterans
    ``(a) Study Required.--(1) The Secretary shall enter into a 
contract with a non-government entity to conduct a longitudinal study 
of a statistically valid sample of each of the groups of individuals 
described in paragraph (2). The contract shall provide for the study of 
each such group over a period of at least five years.
    ``(2) The groups of individuals described in this paragraph are the 
following:
            ``(A) Veterans who have received intensive services.
            ``(B) Veterans who did not receive intensive services but 
        who otherwise received services under this chapter.
            ``(C) Veterans who did not seek or receive services under 
        this chapter.
    ``(3) The study required by this subsection shall include the 
collection of the following information for each individual who 
participates in the study:
            ``(A) The average number of months such individual served 
        on active duty.
            ``(B) The distribution of disability ratings of such 
        individual.
            ``(C) Any unemployment benefits received by such 
        individual.
            ``(D) The average number of months such individual was 
        employed during the year covered by the report.
            ``(E) The average annual starting and ending salaries of 
        any such individual who was employed during the year covered by 
        the report.
            ``(F) The average annual income of such individual.
            ``(G) The average total household income of such individual 
        for the year covered by the report.
            ``(H) The percentage of such individuals who own their 
        principal residences.
            ``(I) The employment status of such individual.
            ``(J) In the case of such an individual who received 
        services under this chapter, whether the individual believes 
        that any service provided by a disabled veterans' outreach 
        specialist or local veterans' employment representative helped 
        the individual to become employed.
            ``(K) In the case of such an individual who believes such a 
        service helped the individual to become employed, whether--
                    ``(i) the individual retained the position of 
                employment for a period of one year or longer; and
                    ``(ii) the individual believes such a service 
                helped the individual to secure a higher wage or 
                salary.
            ``(L) The conditions under which such individual was 
        discharged or released from the Armed Forces.
            ``(M) Whether such individual has used any educational 
        assistance to which the individual is entitled under this 
        title.
            ``(N) Whether such individual has participated in a 
        rehabilitation program under chapter 31 of this title.
            ``(O) Demographic information about such individual.
            ``(P) Such other information as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    ``(b) Annual Reports.--(1) By not later than July 1 of each year 
covered by the study required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the Senate and House 
of Representatives a report on the outcomes of the study during the 
preceding year.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall include in each annual report submitted 
under paragraph (1) any information the Secretary determines is 
necessary to determine the long-term outcomes of the individuals in the 
groups described in subsection (a)(2).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``4115. Longitudinal study of job counseling, training, and placement 
                            service for veterans.''.

SEC. 503. LIMITATIONS ON SUBCONTRACTS UNDER CONTRACTS WITH SMALL 
              BUSINESS CONCERNS OWNED AND CONTROLLED BY VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--Section 8127 of title 38, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (m); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
        subsection (l):
    ``(l) Limitations on Subcontracting.--(1)(A) The requirements 
applicable to a covered small business concern under section 46 of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657s) shall apply with respect to a small 
business concern owned and controlled by a veteran with a service-
connected disability or a small business concern owned and controlled 
by a veteran that is awarded a contract that is counted for purposes of 
meeting the goals under subsection (a).
    ``(B) For purposes of applying the requirements of section 46 of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657s) pursuant to subparagraph (A), 
the term `similarly situated entity' used in such section 46 includes a 
subcontractor for a small business concern owned and controlled by a 
veteran with a service-connected disability or a small business concern 
owned and controlled by a veteran described in such subparagraph (A).
    ``(2) Before awarding a contract that is counted for purposes of 
meeting the goals under subsection (a), the Secretary shall obtain from 
an offeror a certification that the offeror will comply with the 
requirements described in paragraph (1)(A) if awarded the contract. 
Such certification shall--
            ``(A) specify the exact performance requirements applicable 
        under such paragraph; and
            ``(B) explicitly acknowledge that the certification is 
        subject to section 1001 of title 18.
    ``(3) If the Secretary determines that a small business concern 
that is awarded a contract that is counted for purposes of meeting the 
goals under subsection (a) did not act in good faith with respect to 
the requirements described in paragraph (1)(A), the small business 
concern shall be subject to the penalties specified in--
            ``(A) section 16(g)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
        645(g)(1)); and
            ``(B) section 1001 of title 18.
    ``(4)(A) The Director of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
Utilization for the Department, established pursuant to section 15(k) 
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)), and the Chief Acquisition 
Officer of the Department, established pursuant to section 1702 of 
title 41, shall jointly implement a process using the systems described 
in section 16(g)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 645(g)(2)), or 
any other systems available, to monitor compliance with this 
subsection. The Chief Acquisition Officer shall refer any violations of 
this subsection to the Inspector General of the Department.
    ``(B) Not later than November 30 of each year, the Inspector 
General shall submit to the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the 
Senate and House of Representatives a report for the fiscal year 
preceding the fiscal year during which the report is submitted that 
includes, for the fiscal year covered by the report--
            ``(i) the number of referred violations received under 
        subparagraph (A); and
            ``(ii) the disposition of such referred violations, 
        including the number of small business concerns suspended or 
        debarred from Federal contracting or referred to the Attorney 
        General for prosecution.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (l) of section 8127 of title 38, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a) shall apply with respect 
to a contract entered into after the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 504. PROCEDURES FOR PROVISION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION TO STATE 
              VETERANS AGENCIES TO FACILITATE THE FURNISHING OF 
              ASSISTANCE AND BENEFITS TO VETERANS.

    (a) Procedures Required.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
develop procedures to share the information described in subsection (b) 
regarding veterans with State veterans agencies in electronic data 
format as a means of facilitating the furnishing of assistance and 
benefits to veterans.
    (b) Covered Information.--The information shared with State 
veterans agencies under subsection (a) regarding a veteran shall 
include the following:
            (1) Military service and separation data.
            (2) A personal email address.
            (3) A personal telephone number.
            (4) A mailing address.
    (c) Opt-Out Election.--A veteran may elect to prevent their 
information from being shared with State veterans agencies under 
subsection (a) pursuant to a process that the Secretary shall establish 
for purposes of this subsection.
    (d) Use of Information.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
information shared with State veterans agencies in accordance with the 
procedures developed under subsection (a) is only shared by such 
agencies with county government veterans service offices for such 
purposes as the Secretary shall specify for the administration and 
delivery of assistance and benefits.
            Amend the title so as to read: ``A bill to amend title 38, 
        United States Code, to make certain improvements in the laws 
        administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs relating to 
        health care, educational assistance, and vocational 
        rehabilitation, to establish the Veterans Economic Opportunity 
        and Transition Administration, and for other purposes.''.
                                                 Union Calendar No. 274

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 3016

                          [Report No. 114-358]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

     To amend title 38, United States Code, to clarify the role of 
           podiatrists in the Department of Veterans Affairs.

_______________________________________________________________________

                            December 1, 2015

Reported with amendments, committed to the Committee of the Whole House 
          on the State of the Union, and ordered to be printed
