[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2276 Engrossed Amendment House (EAH)]

<DOC>
                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          June 8, 2016.
    Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 2276) entitled ``An Act 
to amend title 49, United States Code, to provide enhanced safety in 
pipeline transportation, and for other purposes.'', do pass with the 
following

                               AMENDMENT:

            Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Protecting our 
Infrastructure of Pipelines and Enhancing Safety Act of 2016'' or the 
``PIPES Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 3. Regulatory updates.
Sec. 4. Natural gas integrity management review.
Sec. 5. Hazardous liquid integrity management review.
Sec. 6. Technical safety standards committees.
Sec. 7. Inspection report information.
Sec. 8. Improving damage prevention technology.
Sec. 9. Workforce management.
Sec. 10. Information-sharing system.
Sec. 11. Nationwide integrated pipeline safety regulatory database.
Sec. 12. Underground gas storage facilities.
Sec. 13. Joint inspection and oversight.
Sec. 14. Safety data sheets.
Sec. 15. Hazardous materials identification numbers.
Sec. 16. Emergency order authority.
Sec. 17. State grant funds.
Sec. 18. Response plans.
Sec. 19. Unusually sensitive areas.
Sec. 20. Pipeline safety technical assistance grants.
Sec. 21. Study of materials and corrosion prevention in pipeline 
                            transportation.
Sec. 22. Research and development.
Sec. 23. Active and abandoned pipelines.
Sec. 24. State pipeline safety agreements.
Sec. 25. Requirements for certain hazardous liquid pipeline facilities.
Sec. 26. Study on propane gas pipeline facilities.
Sec. 27. Standards for certain liquefied natural gas pipeline 
                            facilities.
Sec. 28. Pipeline odorization study.
Sec. 29. Report on natural gas leak reporting.
Sec. 30. Review of State policies relating to natural gas leaks.
Sec. 31. Aliso Canyon natural gas leak task force.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Gas and Hazardous Liquid.--Section 60125(a) of title 49, United 
States Code is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) by striking ``there is authorized to 
        be appropriated to the Department of Transportation for each of 
        fiscal years 2012 through 2015, from fees collected under 
        section 60301, $90,679,000, of which $4,746,000 is for carrying 
        out such section 12 and $36,194,000 is for making grants.'' and 
        inserting the following: ``there is authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Department of Transportation from fees 
        collected under section 60301--
                    ``(A) $124,500,000 for fiscal year 2016, of which 
                $9,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $39,385,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants;
                    ``(B) $128,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 of which 
                $9,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $41,885,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants;
                    ``(C) $131,000,000 for fiscal year 2018, of which 
                $9,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $44,885,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants; and
                    ``(D) $134,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, of which 
                $9,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $47,885,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants.'';
            (2) in paragraph (2) by striking ``there is authorized to 
        be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2012 through 2015 from 
        the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to carry out the provisions 
        of this chapter related to hazardous liquid and section 12 of 
        the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (49 U.S.C. 60101 
        note; Public Law 107-355), $18,573,000, of which $2,174,000 is 
        for carrying out such section 12 and $4,558,000 is for making 
        grants.'' and inserting the following: ``there is authorized to 
        be appropriated from the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund to 
        carry out the provisions of this chapter related to hazardous 
        liquid and section 12 of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 
        2002 (49 U.S.C. 60101 note; Public Law 107-355)--
                    ``(A) $22,123,000 for fiscal year 2016, of which 
                $3,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $8,067,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants;
                    ``(B) $22,123,000 for fiscal year 2017, of which 
                $3,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $8,067,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants;
                    ``(C) $23,000,000 for fiscal year 2018, of which 
                $3,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $8,067,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants; and
                    ``(D) $23,000,000 for fiscal year 2019, of which 
                $3,000,000 shall be expended for carrying out such 
                section 12 and $8,067,000 shall be expended for making 
                grants.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Underground natural gas storage facility safety 
        account.--To carry out section 60141, there is authorized to be 
        appropriated to the Department of Transportation from fees 
        collected under section 60302 $8,000,000 for each of fiscal 
        years 2017 through 2019.''.
    (b) Operational Expenses.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
to the Secretary of Transportation for the necessary operational 
expenses of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration 
the following amounts:
    (1) $21,000,000 for fiscal year 2016.
    (2) $22,000,000 for fiscal year 2017.
    (3) $22,000,000 for fiscal year 2018.
    (4) $23,000,000 for fiscal year 2019.
    (c) One-Call Notification Programs.--
            (1) In general.--Section 6107 of title 49, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 6107. Funding
    ``Of the amounts made available under section 60125(a)(1), the 
Secretary shall expend $1,058,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 
2019 to carry out section 6106.''.
            (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis for chapter 61 of 
        title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking the item 
        relating to section 6107 and inserting the following:

``6107. Funding.''.
    (d) Pipeline Safety Information Grants to Communities.--The first 
sentence of section 60130(c) of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows: ``Of the amounts made available under 
section 2(b) of the PIPES Act of 2016, the Secretary shall expend 
$1,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2019 to carry out this 
section.''.
    (e) Pipeline Integrity Program.--Section 12(f) of the Pipeline 
Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (49 U.S.C. 60101 note) is amended by 
striking ``2012 through 2015'' and inserting ``2016 through 2019''.

SEC. 3. REGULATORY UPDATES.

    (a) Publication.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
        publish an update on a publicly available Web site of the 
        Department of Transportation regarding the status of a final 
        rule for each outstanding regulation, and upon such publication 
        notify the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
        House of Representatives that such publication has been made.
            (2) Deadlines.--The Secretary shall publish an update under 
        this subsection not later than 120 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter until a 
        final rule has been published in the Federal Register for each 
        outstanding regulation.
    (b) Contents.--The Secretary shall include in each update published 
under subsection (a)--
            (1) a description of the work plan for each outstanding 
        regulation;
            (2) an updated rulemaking timeline for each outstanding 
        regulation;
            (3) current staff allocations with respect to each 
        outstanding regulation;
            (4) any resource constraints affecting the rulemaking 
        process for each outstanding regulation;
            (5) any other details associated with the development of 
        each outstanding regulation that affect the progress of the 
        rulemaking process; and
            (6) a description of all rulemakings regarding gas or 
        hazardous liquid pipeline facilities published in the Federal 
        Register that are not identified under subsection (c).
    (c) Outstanding Regulation Defined.--In this section, the term 
``outstanding regulation'' means--
            (1) a final rule required under the Pipeline Safety, 
        Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 (Public Law 
        112-90) that has not been published in the Federal Register; 
        and
            (2) a final rule regarding gas or hazardous liquid pipeline 
        facilities required under this Act or an Act enacted prior to 
        the date of enactment of this Act (other than the Pipeline 
        Safety, Regulatory Certainty, and Job Creation Act of 2011 
        (Public Law 112-90)) that has not been published in the Federal 
        Register.

SEC. 4. NATURAL GAS INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REVIEW.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of publication 
in the Federal Register of a final rule regarding the safety of gas 
transmission pipelines related to the notice of proposed rulemaking 
issued on April 8, 2016, titled ``Pipeline Safety: Safety of Gas 
Transmission and Gathering Pipelines'' (81 Fed. Reg. 20721), the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report regarding the 
integrity management programs for gas pipeline facilities required 
under section 60109(c) of title 49, United States Code.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) an analysis of stakeholder perspectives, taking into 
        consideration technical, operational, and economic feasibility, 
        regarding ways to enhance pipeline facility safety, prevent 
        inadvertent releases from pipeline facilities, and mitigate any 
        adverse consequences of such inadvertent releases, including 
        changes to the definition of high consequence area, or 
        expanding integrity management beyond high consequence areas;
            (2) a review of the types of benefits, including safety 
        benefits, and estimated costs of the legacy class location 
        regulations;
            (3) an analysis of the impact pipeline facility features, 
        including the age, condition, materials, and construction of a 
        pipeline facility, have on safety and risk analysis of a 
        particular pipeline facility;
            (4) a description of any challenges affecting Federal or 
        State regulators in the oversight of gas transmission pipeline 
        facilities and how the challenges are being addressed; and
            (5) a description of any challenges affecting the natural 
        gas industry in complying with the programs, and how the 
        challenges are being addressed, including any challenges faced 
        by publicly owned natural gas distribution systems.
    (c) Definition of High Consequence Area.--In this section, the term 
``high consequence area'' has the meaning given the term in section 
192.903 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.

SEC. 5. HAZARDOUS LIQUID INTEGRITY MANAGEMENT REVIEW.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of publication 
in the Federal Register of a final rule regarding the safety of 
hazardous liquid pipeline facilities related to the notice of proposed 
rulemaking issued on October 13, 2015, titled ``Pipeline Safety: Safety 
of Hazardous Liquid Pipelines'' (80 Fed. Reg. 61610), the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report regarding the 
integrity management programs for hazardous liquid pipeline facilities, 
as regulated under sections 195.450 and 195.452 of title 49, Code of 
Federal Regulations.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) taking into consideration technical, operational, and 
        economic feasibility, an analysis of stakeholder perspectives 
        on--
                    (A) ways to enhance hazardous liquid pipeline 
                facility safety;
                    (B) risk factors that may warrant more frequent 
                inspections of hazardous liquid pipeline facilities; 
                and
                    (C) changes to the definition of high consequence 
                area;
            (2) an analysis of how surveying, assessment, mitigation, 
        and monitoring activities, including real-time hazardous liquid 
        pipeline facility monitoring during significant flood events 
        and information sharing with Federal agencies, are being used 
        to address risks associated with rivers, flood plains, lakes, 
        and coastal areas;
            (3) an analysis of the impact pipeline facility features, 
        including the age, condition, materials, and construction of a 
        pipeline facility, have on safety and risk analysis of a 
        particular pipeline facility and what changes to the definition 
        of high consequence area could be made to improve pipeline 
        facility safety; and
            (4) a description of any challenges affecting Federal or 
        State regulators in the oversight of hazardous liquid pipeline 
        facilities and how those challenges are being addressed.
    (c) Definition of High Consequence Area.--In this section, the term 
``high consequence area'' has the meaning given the term in section 
195.450 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.

SEC. 6. TECHNICAL SAFETY STANDARDS COMMITTEES.

    (a) Appointment of Members.--Section 60115(b)(4)(A) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``State commissioners. The 
Secretary shall consult with the national organization of State 
commissions before selecting those 2 individuals.'' and inserting 
``State officials. The Secretary shall consult with national 
organizations representing State commissioners or utility regulators 
before making a selection under this subparagraph.''.
    (b) Vacancies.--Section 60115(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(5) Within 90 days of the date of enactment of the PIPES Act of 
2016, the Secretary shall fill all vacancies on the Technical Pipeline 
Safety Standards Committee, the Technical Hazardous Liquid Pipeline 
Safety Standards Committee, and any other committee established 
pursuant to this section. After that period, the Secretary shall fill a 
vacancy on any such committee not later than 60 days after the vacancy 
occurs.''.

SEC. 7. INSPECTION REPORT INFORMATION.

    (a) Inspection and Maintenance.--Section 60108 of title 49, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) In General.--After the completion of a Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration pipeline safety inspection, the 
Administrator of such Administration, or the State authority certified 
under section 60105 of title 49, United States Code, to conduct such 
inspection, shall--
                    ``(1) within 30 days, conduct a post-inspection 
                briefing with the owner or operator of the gas or 
                hazardous liquid pipeline facility inspected outlining 
                any concerns; and
                    ``(2) within 90 days, to the extent practicable, 
                provide the owner or operator with written preliminary 
                findings of the inspection.''.
    (b) Notification.--Not later than October 1, 2017, and each fiscal 
year thereafter for 2 years, the Administrator shall notify the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate of--
            (1) the number of times a deadline under section 60108(e) 
        of title 49, United States Code, was exceeded in the prior 
        fiscal year; and
            (2) in each instance, the length of time by which the 
        deadline was exceeded.

SEC. 8. IMPROVING DAMAGE PREVENTION TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with 
stakeholders, shall conduct a study on improving existing damage 
prevention programs through technological improvements in location, 
mapping, excavation, and communications practices to prevent excavation 
damage to a pipe or its coating, including considerations of technical, 
operational, and economic feasibility and existing damage prevention 
programs.
    (b) Contents.--The study under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) an identification of any methods to improve existing 
        damage prevention programs through location and mapping 
        practices or technologies in an effort to reduce releases 
        caused by excavation;
            (2) an analysis of how increased use of global positioning 
        system digital mapping technologies, predictive analytic tools, 
        public awareness initiatives including one-call initiatives, 
        the use of mobile devices, and other advanced technologies 
        could supplement existing one-call notification and damage 
        prevention programs to reduce the frequency and severity of 
        incidents caused by excavation damage;
            (3) an identification of any methods to improve excavation 
        practices or technologies in an effort to reduce pipeline 
        damage;
            (4) an analysis of the feasibility of a national data 
        repository for pipeline excavation accident data that creates 
        standardized data models for storing and sharing pipeline 
        accident information; and
            (5) an identification of opportunities for stakeholder 
        engagement in preventing excavation damage.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives a report containing the 
results of the study conducted under subsection (a), including 
recommendations, that include the consideration of technical, 
operational, and economic feasibility, on how to incorporate into 
existing damage prevention programs technological improvements and 
practices that help prevent excavation damage.

SEC. 9. WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Review.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation 
shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
Senate, a review of Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration staff resource management, including--
            (1) geographic allocation plans, hiring and time-to-hire 
        challenges, and expected retirement rates and recruitment and 
        retention strategies;
            (2) an identification and description of any previous 
        periods of macroeconomic and pipeline industry conditions under 
        which the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
        Administration has encountered difficulty in filling vacancies, 
        and the degree to which special hiring authorities, including 
        direct hiring authority authorized by the Office of Personnel 
        Management, could have ameliorated such difficulty; and
            (3) recommendations to address hiring challenges, training 
        needs, and any other identified staff resource challenges.
    (b) Direct Hiring.--Upon identification of a period described in 
subsection (a)(2), the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration may apply to the Office of Personnel 
Management for the authority to appoint qualified candidates to any 
position relating to pipeline safety, as determined by the 
Administrator, without regard to sections 3309 through 3319 of title 5, 
United States Code.
    (c) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall preclude the 
Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration from applying to the Office of Personnel Management for 
the authority described in subsection (b) prior to the completion of 
the report required under subsection (a).

SEC. 10. INFORMATION-SHARING SYSTEM.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall convene a 
working group to consider the development of a voluntary information-
sharing system to encourage collaborative efforts to improve inspection 
information feedback and information sharing with the purpose of 
improving gas transmission and hazardous liquid pipeline facility 
integrity risk analysis.
    (b) Membership.--The working group convened pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall include representatives from--
            (1) the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
        Administration;
            (2) industry stakeholders, including operators of pipeline 
        facilities, inspection technology, coating, and cathodic 
        protection vendors, and pipeline inspection organizations;
            (3) safety advocacy groups;
            (4) research institutions;
            (5) State public utility commissions or State officials 
        responsible for pipeline safety oversight;
            (6) State pipeline safety inspectors;
            (7) labor representatives; and
            (8) other entities, as determined appropriate by the 
        Secretary.
    (c) Considerations.--The working group convened pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall consider and provide recommendations to the 
Secretary on--
            (1) the need for, and the identification of, a system to 
        ensure that dig verification data are shared with in-line 
        inspection operators to the extent consistent with the need to 
        maintain proprietary and security-sensitive data in a 
        confidential manner to improve pipeline safety and inspection 
        technology;
            (2) ways to encourage the exchange of pipeline inspection 
        information and the development of advanced pipeline inspection 
        technologies and enhanced risk analysis;
            (3) opportunities to share data, including dig verification 
        data between operators of pipeline facilities and in-line 
        inspector vendors to expand knowledge of the advantages and 
        disadvantages of the different types of in-line inspection 
        technology and methodologies;
            (4) options to create a secure system that protects 
        proprietary data while encouraging the exchange of pipeline 
        inspection information and the development of advanced pipeline 
        inspection technologies and enhanced risk analysis;
            (5) means and best practices for the protection of safety- 
        and security-sensitive information and proprietary information; 
        and
            (6) regulatory, funding, and legal barriers to sharing the 
        information described in paragraphs (1) through (4).
    (d) Publication.--The Secretary shall publish the recommendations 
provided under subsection (c) on a publicly available Web site of the 
Department of Transportation.

SEC. 11. NATIONWIDE INTEGRATED PIPELINE SAFETY REGULATORY DATABASE.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit to the Committee 
on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the feasibility 
of establishing a national integrated pipeline safety regulatory 
inspection database to improve communication and collaboration between 
the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration and State 
pipeline regulators.
    (b) Contents.--The report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) a description of any efforts underway to test a secure 
        information-sharing system for the purpose described in 
        subsection (a);
            (2) a description of any progress in establishing common 
        standards for maintaining, collecting, and presenting pipeline 
        safety regulatory inspection data, and a methodology for 
        sharing the data;
            (3) a description of any inadequacies or gaps in State and 
        Federal inspection, enforcement, geospatial, or other pipeline 
        safety regulatory inspection data;
            (4) a description of the potential safety benefits of a 
        national integrated pipeline safety regulatory inspection 
        database; and
            (5) recommendations, including those of stakeholders for 
        how to implement a secure information-sharing system that 
        protects proprietary and security sensitive information and 
        data for the purpose described in subsection (a).
    (c) Consultation.--In implementing this section, the Secretary 
shall consult with stakeholders, including each State authority 
operating under a certification to regulate intrastate pipelines under 
section 60105 of title 49, United States Code.
    (d) Establishment of Database.--The Secretary may establish, if 
appropriate, a national integrated pipeline safety regulatory 
database--
            (1) after submission of the report required under 
        subsection (a); or
            (2) upon notification to the Committee on Transportation 
        and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate of the need to 
        establish such database prior to the submission of the report 
        under subsection (a).

SEC. 12. UNDERGROUND GAS STORAGE FACILITIES.

    (a) Defined Term.--Section 60101(a) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (21)(B) by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (22)(B)(iii) by striking the period at the 
        end and inserting a semicolon;
            (3) in paragraph (24) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (4) in paragraph (25) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(26) `underground natural gas storage facility' means a 
        gas pipeline facility that stores natural gas in an underground 
        facility, including--
                    ``(A) a depleted hydrocarbon reservoir;
                    ``(B) an aquifer reservoir; or
                    ``(C) a solution-mined salt cavern reservoir.''.
    (b) Standards for Underground Gas Storage Facilities.--Chapter 601 
of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
``Sec. 60141. Standards for underground natural gas storage facilities
    ``(a) Minimum Safety Standards.--Not later than 2 years after the 
date of enactment of the PIPES Act of 2016, the Secretary, in 
consultation with the heads of other relevant Federal agencies, shall 
issue minimum safety standards for underground natural gas storage 
facilities.
    ``(b) Considerations.--In developing the safety standards required 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall, to the extent practicable--
            ``(1) consider consensus standards for the operation, 
        environmental protection, and integrity management of 
        underground natural gas storage facilities;
            ``(2) consider the economic impacts of the regulations on 
        individual gas customers;
            ``(3) ensure that the regulations do not have a significant 
        economic impact on end users; and
            ``(4) consider the recommendations of the Aliso Canyon 
        natural gas leak task force established under section 31 of the 
        PIPES Act of 2016.
    ``(c) Federal-State Cooperation.--The Secretary may authorize a 
State authority (including a municipality) to participate in the 
oversight of underground natural gas storage facilities in the same 
manner as provided in sections 60105 and 60106.
    ``(d) Rules of Construction.--
            ``(1) In general.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
        to affect any Federal regulation relating to gas pipeline 
        facilities that is in effect on the day before the date of 
        enactment of the PIPES Act of 2016.
            ``(2) Limitations.--Nothing in this section may be 
        construed to authorize the Secretary--
                    ``(A) to prescribe the location of an underground 
                natural gas storage facility; or
                    ``(B) to require the Secretary's permission to 
                construct a facility referred to in subparagraph (A).
    ``(e) Preemption.--A State authority may adopt additional or more 
stringent safety standards for intrastate underground natural gas 
storage facilities if such standards are compatible with the minimum 
standards prescribed under this section.
    ``(f) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect the Secretary's authority under this title to 
regulate the underground storage of gas that is not natural gas.''.
    (c) User Fees.--Chapter 603 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 60301 the following:
``Sec. 60302. User fees for underground natural gas storage facilities
    ``(a) In General.--A fee shall be imposed on an entity operating an 
underground natural gas storage facility subject to section 60141. Any 
such fee imposed shall be collected before the end of the fiscal year 
to which it applies.
    ``(b) Means of Collection.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
prescribe procedures to collect fees under this section. The Secretary 
may use a department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States 
Government or of a State or local government to collect the fee and may 
reimburse the department, agency, or instrumentality a reasonable 
amount for its services.
    ``(c) Use of Fees.--
            ``(1) Account.--There is established an Underground Natural 
        Gas Storage Facility Safety Account in the Pipeline Safety Fund 
        established in the Treasury of the United States under section 
        60301.
            ``(2) Use of fees.--A fee collected under this section--
                    ``(A) shall be deposited in the Underground Natural 
                Gas Storage Facility Safety Account; and
                    ``(B) if the fee is related to an underground 
                natural gas storage facility subject to section 60141, 
                the amount of the fee may be used only for an activity 
                related to underground natural gas storage facility 
                safety.
            ``(3) Limitation.--No fee may be collected under this 
        section, except to the extent that the expenditure of such fee 
        to pay the costs of an activity related to underground natural 
        gas storage facility safety for which such fee is imposed is 
        provided in advance in an appropriations Act.''.
    (d) Clerical Amendments.--
            (1) Chapter 601.--The table of sections for chapter 601 of 
        title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end 
        the following:

``60141. Standards for underground natural gas storage facilities.''.
            (2) Chapter 603.--The table of sections for chapter 603 of 
        title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the 
        item relating to section 60301 the following:

``60302. User fees for underground natural gas storage facilities.''.

SEC. 13. JOINT INSPECTION AND OVERSIGHT.

    Section 60106 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(f) Joint Inspectors.--At the request of a State authority, the 
Secretary shall allow for a certified State authority under section 
60105 to participate in the inspection of an interstate pipeline 
facility.''.

SEC. 14. SAFETY DATA SHEETS.

    (a) In General.--Each owner or operator of a hazardous liquid 
pipeline facility, following an accident involving such pipeline 
facility that results in a hazardous liquid spill, shall provide safety 
data sheets on any spilled hazardous liquid to the designated Federal 
On-Scene Coordinator and appropriate State and local emergency 
responders within 6 hours of a telephonic or electronic notice of the 
accident to the National Response Center.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal on-scene coordinator.--The term ``Federal On-
        Scene Coordinator'' has the meaning given such term in section 
        311(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 
        1321(a)).
            (2) National response center.--The term ``National Response 
        Center'' means the center described under section 300.125(a) of 
        title 40, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (3) Safety data sheet.--The term ``safety data sheet'' 
        means a safety data sheet required under section 1910.1200 of 
        title 29, Code of Federal Regulations.

SEC. 15. HAZARDOUS MATERIALS IDENTIFICATION NUMBERS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall issue an advanced notice of proposed 
rulemaking to take public comment on the petition for rulemaking dated 
October 28, 2015, titled ``Corrections to Title 49 CFR 172.336 
Identification numbers; special provisions'' (P-1667).

SEC. 16. EMERGENCY ORDER AUTHORITY.

    Section 60117 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(o) Emergency Order Authority.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the Secretary determines that an 
        unsafe condition or practice, or a combination of unsafe 
        conditions and practices, constitutes or is causing an imminent 
        hazard, the Secretary may issue an emergency order described in 
        paragraph (3) imposing emergency restrictions, prohibitions, 
        and safety measures on owners and operators of gas or hazardous 
        liquid pipeline facilities without prior notice or an 
        opportunity for a hearing, but only to the extent necessary to 
        abate the imminent hazard.
            ``(2) Considerations.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Before issuing an emergency 
                order under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
                consider, as appropriate, the following factors:
                            ``(i) The impact of the emergency order on 
                        public health and safety.
                            ``(ii) The impact, if any, of the emergency 
                        order on the national or regional economy or 
                        national security.
                            ``(iii) The impact of the emergency order 
                        on the ability of owners and operators of 
                        pipeline facilities to maintain reliability and 
                        continuity of service to customers.
                    ``(B) Consultation.--In considering the factors 
                under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consult, as 
                the Secretary determines appropriate, with appropriate 
                Federal agencies, State agencies, and other entities 
                knowledgeable in pipeline safety or operations.
            ``(3) Written order.--An emergency order issued by the 
        Secretary pursuant to paragraph (1) with respect to an imminent 
        hazard shall contain a written description of--
                    ``(A) the violation, condition, or practice that 
                constitutes or is causing the imminent hazard;
                    ``(B) the entities subject to the order;
                    ``(C) the restrictions, prohibitions, or safety 
                measures imposed;
                    ``(D) the standards and procedures for obtaining 
                relief from the order;
                    ``(E) how the order is tailored to abate the 
                imminent hazard and the reasons the authorities under 
                section 60112 and 60117(l) are insufficient to do so; 
                and
                    ``(F) how the considerations were taken into 
                account pursuant to paragraph (2).
            ``(4) Opportunity for review.--Upon receipt of a petition 
        for review from an entity subject to, and aggrieved by, an 
        emergency order issued under this subsection, the Secretary 
        shall provide an opportunity for a review of the order under 
        section 554 of title 5 to determine whether the order should 
        remain in effect, be modified, or be terminated.
            ``(5) Expiration of effectiveness order.--If a petition for 
        review of an emergency order is filed under paragraph (4) and 
        an agency decision with respect to the petition is not issued 
        on or before the last day of the 30-day period beginning on the 
        date on which the petition is filed, the order shall cease to 
        be effective on such day, unless the Secretary determines in 
        writing on or before the last day of such period that the 
        imminent hazard still exists.
            ``(6) Judicial review of orders.--
                    ``(A) In general.--After completion of the review 
                process described in paragraph (4), or the issuance of 
                a written determination by the Secretary pursuant to 
                paragraph (5), an entity subject to, and aggrieved by, 
                an emergency order issued under this subsection may 
                seek judicial review of the order in a district court 
                of the United States and shall be given expedited 
                consideration.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--The filing of a petition for 
                review under subparagraph (A) shall not stay or modify 
                the force and effect of the agency's final decision 
                under paragraph (4), or the written determination under 
                paragraph (5), unless stayed or modified by the 
                Secretary.
            ``(7) Regulations.--
                    ``(A) Temporary regulations.--Not later than 60 
                days after the date of enactment of the PIPES Act of 
                2016, the Secretary shall issue such temporary 
                regulations as are necessary to carry out this 
                subsection. The temporary regulations shall expire on 
                the date of issuance of the final regulations required 
                under subparagraph (B).
                    ``(B) Final regulations.--Not later than 270 days 
                after such date of enactment, the Secretary shall issue 
                such regulations as are necessary to carry out this 
                subsection. Such regulations shall ensure that the 
                review process described in paragraph (4) contains the 
                same procedures as subsections (d) and (g) of section 
                109.19 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, and is 
                otherwise consistent with the review process developed 
                under such section, to the greatest extent practicable 
                and not inconsistent with this section.
            ``(8) Imminent hazard defined.--In this subsection, the 
        term `imminent hazard' means the existence of a condition 
        relating to a gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facility that 
        presents a substantial likelihood that death, serious illness, 
        severe personal injury, or a substantial endangerment to 
        health, property, or the environment may occur before the 
        reasonably foreseeable completion date of a formal proceeding 
        begun to lessen the risk of such death, illness, injury, or 
        endangerment.
            ``(9) Limitation and savings clause.--An emergency order 
        issued under this subsection may not be construed to--
                    ``(A) alter, amend, or limit the Secretary's 
                obligations under, or the applicability of, section 553 
                of title 5; or
                    ``(B) provide the authority to amend the Code of 
                Federal Regulations.''.

SEC. 17. STATE GRANT FUNDS.

    Section 60107 of title 49, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Payments.--After notifying and consulting with a State 
authority, the Secretary may withhold any part of a payment when the 
Secretary decides that the authority is not carrying out satisfactorily 
a safety program or not acting satisfactorily as an agent. The 
Secretary may pay an authority under this section only when the 
authority ensures the Secretary that it will provide the remaining 
costs of a safety program, except when the Secretary waives this 
requirement.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Repurposing of Funds.--If a State program's certification is 
rejected under section 60105(f) or such program is otherwise suspended 
or interrupted, the Secretary may use any undistributed, deobligated, 
or recovered funds authorized under this section to carry out pipeline 
safety activities for that State within the period of availability for 
such funds.''.

SEC. 18. RESPONSE PLANS.

    Each owner or operator of a hazardous liquid pipeline facility 
required to prepare a response plan pursuant to part 194 of title 49, 
Code of Federal Regulations, shall--
            (1) consider the impact of a discharge into or on navigable 
        waters or adjoining shorelines, including those that may be 
        covered in whole or in part by ice; and
            (2) include procedures and resources for responding to such 
        discharge in the plan.

SEC. 19. UNUSUALLY SENSITIVE AREAS.

    (a) Areas To Be Included as Unusually Sensitive.--Section 
60109(b)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``have been identified as'' and inserting ``are part of the Great Lakes 
or have been identified as coastal beaches, marine coastal waters,''.
    (b) Unusually Sensitive Areas (USA) Ecological Resources.--The 
Secretary of Transportation shall revise section 195.6(b) of title 49, 
Code of Federal Regulations, to explicitly state that the Great Lakes, 
coastal beaches, and marine coastal waters are USA ecological resources 
for purposes of determining whether a pipeline is in a high consequence 
area (as defined in section 195.450 of such title).

SEC. 20. PIPELINE SAFETY TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS.

    (a) Public Participation Limitation.--Section 60130(a)(4) of title 
49, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``on technical pipeline 
safety issues'' after ``public participation''.
    (b) Audit.--Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of Transportation 
shall submit to the Secretary of Transportation, the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report evaluating 
the grant program under section 60130 of title 49, United States Code. 
The report shall include--
            (1) a list of the recipients of all grant funds during 
        fiscal years 2010 through 2015;
            (2) a description of how each grant was used;
            (3) an analysis of the compliance with the terms of grant 
        agreements, including subsections (a) and (b) of such section;
            (4) an evaluation of the competitive process used to award 
        the grant funds; and
            (5) an evaluation of--
                    (A) the ability of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
                Materials Safety Administration to oversee grant funds 
                and usage; and
                    (B) the procedures used for such oversight.

SEC. 21. STUDY OF MATERIALS AND CORROSION PREVENTION IN PIPELINE 
              TRANSPORTATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
study on materials, training, and corrosion prevention technologies for 
gas and hazardous liquid pipeline facilities.
    (b) Requirements.--The study required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) an analysis of--
                    (A) the range of piping materials, including 
                plastic materials, used to transport hazardous liquids 
                and natural gas in the United States and in other 
                developed countries around the world;
                    (B) the types of technologies used for corrosion 
                prevention, including coatings and cathodic protection;
                    (C) common causes of corrosion, including interior 
                and exterior moisture buildup and impacts of moisture 
                buildup under insulation; and
                    (D) the training provided to personnel responsible 
                for identifying and preventing corrosion in pipelines, 
                and for repairing such pipelines;
            (2) the extent to which best practices or guidance relating 
        to pipeline facility design, installation, operation, and 
        maintenance, including training, are available to recognize or 
        prevent corrosion;
            (3) an analysis of the estimated costs and anticipated 
        benefits, including safety benefits, associated with the use of 
        such materials and technologies; and
            (4) stakeholder and expert perspectives on the 
        effectiveness of corrosion control techniques to reduce the 
        incidence of corrosion-related pipeline failures.

SEC. 22. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of 
Transportation shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Committee 
on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report regarding the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration's research and development program carried out under 
section 12 of the Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (49 U.S.C. 
60101 note). The report shall include an evaluation of--
            (1) compliance with the consultation requirement under 
        subsection (d)(2) of such section;
            (2) the extent to which the Pipeline and Hazardous 
        Materials Safety Administration enters into joint research 
        ventures with Federal and non-Federal entities, and benefits 
        thereof;
            (3) the policies and procedures the Pipeline and Hazardous 
        Materials Safety Administration has put in place to ensure 
        there are no conflicts of interest with administering grants 
        pursuant to the program, and whether those policies and 
        procedures are being followed; and
            (4) an evaluation of the outcomes of research conducted 
        with Federal and non-Federal entities and the degree to which 
        such outcomes have been adopted or utilized.
    (b) Collaborative Safety Research Report.--
            (1) Biennial reports.--Section 60124(a)(6) of title 49, 
        United States Code, is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) a summary of each research and development 
                project carried out with Federal and non-Federal 
                entities pursuant to section 12 of the Pipeline Safety 
                Improvement Act of 2002 and a review of how the project 
                affects safety.''.
            (2) Pipeline safety improvement act.--Section 12 of the 
        Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002 (49 U.S.C. 60101 note) 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (d)(3)(C) and inserting 
                the following:
                    ``(C) Funding from non-federal sources.--The 
                Secretary shall ensure that--
                            ``(i) at least 30 percent of the costs of 
                        technology research and development activities 
                        may be carried out using non-Federal sources;
                            ``(ii) at least 20 percent of the costs of 
                        basic research and development with 
                        universities may be carried out using non-
                        Federal sources; and
                            ``(iii) up to 100 percent of the costs of 
                        research and development for purely 
                        governmental purposes may be carried out using 
                        Federal funds.''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Independent Experts.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of enactment of the PIPES Act of 2016, the Secretary shall--
            ``(1) implement processes and procedures to ensure that 
        activities listed under subsection (c), to the greatest extent 
        practicable, produce results that are peer-reviewed by 
        independent experts and not by persons or entities that have a 
        financial interest in the pipeline, petroleum, or natural gas 
        industries, or that would be directly impacted by the results 
        of the projects; and
            ``(2) submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
        Infrastructure, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the 
        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate a report describing the processes 
        and procedures implemented under paragraph (1).
    ``(i) Conflict of Interest.--The Secretary shall take all practical 
steps to ensure that each recipient of an agreement under this section 
discloses in writing to the Secretary any conflict of interest on a 
research and development project carried out under this section, and 
includes any such disclosure as part of the final deliverable pursuant 
to such agreement. The Secretary may not make an award under this 
section directly to a pipeline owner or operator that is regulated by 
the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration or a State-
certified regulatory authority if there is a conflict of interest 
relating to such owner or operator.''.

SEC. 23. ACTIVE AND ABANDONED PIPELINES.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Transportation shall issue an advisory bulletin to owners 
and operators of gas or hazardous liquid pipeline facilities and 
Federal and State pipeline safety personnel regarding procedures of the 
Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration required to 
change the status of a pipeline facility from active to abandoned, 
including specific guidance on the terms recognized by the Secretary 
for each pipeline status referred to in such advisory bulletin.

SEC. 24. STATE PIPELINE SAFETY AGREEMENTS.

    (a) Study.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall complete a 
study on State pipeline safety agreements made pursuant to section 
60106 of title 49, United States Code. Such study shall consider the 
following:
            (1) The integration of Federal and State or local 
        authorities in carrying out activities pursuant to an agreement 
        under such section.
            (2) The estimated staff and other resources used by Federal 
        and State authorities in carrying out inspection activities 
        pursuant to agreements under such section.
            (3) The estimated staff and other resources used by the 
        Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety Administration in 
        carrying out interstate inspections in areas where there is no 
        interstate agreement with a State pursuant to such section.
    (b) Notice Requirement for Denial.--Section 60106(b) of title 49, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) Notice upon denial.--If a State authority requests an 
        interstate agreement under this section and the Secretary 
        denies such request, the Secretary shall provide written 
        notification to the State authority of the denial that includes 
        an explanation of the reasons for such denial.''.

SEC. 25. REQUIREMENTS FOR CERTAIN HAZARDOUS LIQUID PIPELINE FACILITIES.

    Section 60109 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(g) Hazardous Liquid Pipeline Facilities.--
            ``(1) Integrity assessments.--Notwithstanding any pipeline 
        integrity management program or integrity assessment schedule 
        otherwise required by the Secretary, each operator of a 
        pipeline facility to which this subsection applies shall ensure 
        that pipeline integrity assessments--
                    ``(A) using internal inspection technology 
                appropriate for the integrity threat are completed not 
                less often than once every 12 months; and
                    ``(B) using pipeline route surveys, depth of cover 
                surveys, pressure tests, external corrosion direct 
                assessment, or other technology that the operator 
                demonstrates can further the understanding of the 
                condition of the pipeline facility are completed on a 
                schedule based on the risk that the pipeline facility 
                poses to the high consequence area in which the 
                pipeline facility is located.
            ``(2) Application.--This subsection shall apply to any 
        underwater hazardous liquid pipeline facility located in a high 
        consequence area--
                    ``(A) that is not an offshore pipeline facility; 
                and
                    ``(B) any portion of which is located at depths 
                greater than 150 feet under the surface of the water.
            ``(3) High consequence area defined.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term `high consequence area' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 195.450 of title 49, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            ``(4) Inspection and enforcement.--The Secretary shall 
        conduct inspections under section 60117(c) to determine whether 
        each operator of a pipeline facility to which this subsection 
        applies is complying with this section.''.

SEC. 26. STUDY ON PROPANE GAS PIPELINE FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation shall enter into 
an agreement with the Transportation Research Board of the National 
Academies to conduct a study examining the safety, regulatory 
requirements, techniques, and best practices applicable to pipeline 
facilities that transport or store only petroleum gas or mixtures of 
petroleum gas and air to 100 or fewer customers, in accordance with the 
requirements of this section.
    (b) Requirements.--In conducting the study pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Transportation Research Board shall analyze--
            (1) Federal, State, and local regulatory requirements 
        applicable to pipeline facilities described in subsection (a);
            (2) techniques and best practices relating to the design, 
        installation, operation, and maintenance of such pipeline 
        facilities; and
            (3) the costs and benefits, including safety benefits, 
        associated with such applicable regulatory requirements and the 
        use of such techniques and best practices.
    (c) Participation.--In conducting the study pursuant to subsection 
(a), the Transportation Research Board shall consult with Federal, 
State, and local governments, private sector entities, and consumer and 
pipeline safety advocates, as appropriate.
    (d) Deadline.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate the results of the study 
conducted pursuant to subsection (a) and any recommendations for 
improving the safety of such pipeline facilities.
    (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``petroleum gas'' has 
the meaning given that term in section 192.3 of title 49, Code of 
Federal Regulations, as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 27. STANDARDS FOR CERTAIN LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS PIPELINE 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) National Security.--Section 60103(a) of title 49, United States 
Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (5), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (6), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) national security.''.
    (b) Update to Minimum Safety Standards.--The Secretary of 
Transportation shall review and update the minimum safety standards 
prescribed pursuant to section 60103 of title 49, United States Code, 
for permanent, small scale liquefied natural gas pipeline facilities.
    (c) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
limit the Secretary's authority under chapter 601 of title 49, United 
States Code, to regulate liquefied natural gas pipeline facilities.

SEC. 28. PIPELINE ODORIZATION STUDY.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit a report to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives that 
assesses--
            (1) the feasibility, costs, and benefits of odorizing all 
        combustible gas in pipeline transportation; and
            (2) the affects of the odorization of all combustible gas 
        in pipeline transportation on--
                    (A) manufacturers, agriculture, and other end 
                users; and
                    (B) public health and safety.

SEC. 29. REPORT ON NATURAL GAS LEAK REPORTING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration shall submit to Congress a report on 
the metrics provided to the Pipeline and Hazardous Materials Safety 
Administration and other Federal and State agencies related to lost and 
unaccounted for natural gas from distribution pipelines and systems.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
            (1) An examination of different reporting requirements or 
        standards for lost and unaccounted for natural gas to different 
        agencies, the reasons for any such discrepancies, and 
        recommendations for harmonizing and improving the accuracy of 
        reporting.
            (2) An analysis of whether separate or alternative 
        reporting could better measure the amounts and identify the 
        location of lost and unaccounted for natural gas from natural 
        gas distribution systems.
            (3) A description of potential safety issues associated 
        with natural gas that is lost and unaccounted for from natural 
        gas distribution systems.
            (4) An assessment of whether alternate reporting and 
        measures will resolve any safety issues identified under 
        paragraph (3), including an analysis of the potential impact, 
        including potential savings, on rate payers and end users of 
        natural gas products of such reporting and measures.
    (c) Consideration of Recommendations.--If the Administrator 
determines that alternate reporting structures or recommendations 
included in the report required under subsection (a) would 
significantly improve the reporting and measurement of lost and 
unaccounted for gas and safety of natural gas distribution systems, the 
Administrator shall, not later than 1 year after making such 
determination, issue regulations, as the Administrator determines 
appropriate, to implement the recommendations.

SEC. 30. REVIEW OF STATE POLICIES RELATING TO NATURAL GAS LEAKS.

    (a) Review.--The Administrator of the Pipeline and Hazardous 
Materials Safety Administration shall conduct a State-by-State review 
of State-level policies that--
            (1) encourage the repair and replacement of leaking natural 
        gas distribution pipelines or systems that pose a safety 
        threat, such as timelines to repair leaks and limits on cost 
        recovery from ratepayers; and
            (2) may create barriers for entities to conduct work to 
        repair and replace leaking natural gas pipelines or 
        distribution systems.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report containing the 
findings of the review conducted under subsection (a) and 
recommendations on Federal or State policies or best practices to 
improve safety by accelerating the repair and replacement of natural 
gas pipelines or systems that are leaking or releasing natural gas. The 
report shall consider the potential impact, including potential 
savings, of the implementation of such recommendations on ratepayers or 
end users of the natural gas pipeline system.
    (c) Implementation of Recommendations.--If the Administrator 
determines that the recommendations made under subsection (b) would 
significantly improve pipeline safety, the Administrator shall, not 
later than 1 year after making such determination, and in coordination 
with the heads of other relevant agencies as appropriate, issue 
regulations, as the Administrator determines appropriate, to implement 
the recommendations.

SEC. 31. ALISO CANYON NATURAL GAS LEAK TASK FORCE.

    (a) Establishment of Task Force.--Not later than 15 days after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall lead and 
establish an Aliso Canyon natural gas leak task force.
    (b) Membership of Task Force.--In addition to the Secretary, the 
task force established under subsection (a) shall be composed of--
            (1) 1 representative from the Department of Transportation;
            (2) 1 representative from the Department of Health and 
        Human Services;
            (3) 1 representative from the Environmental Protection 
        Agency;
            (4) 1 representative from the Department of the Interior;
            (5) 1 representative from the Department of Commerce;
            (6) 1 representative from the Federal Energy Regulatory 
        Commission; and
            (7) representatives of State and local governments, as 
        determined appropriate by the Secretary and the Administrator.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the task force established under 
        subsection (a) shall submit a final report that contains the 
        information described in paragraph (2) to--
                    (A) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                of the Senate;
                    (B) the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
                of Representatives;
                    (C) the Committee on Environment and Public Works 
                of the Senate;
                    (D) the Committee on Transportation and 
                Infrastructure of the House of Representatives;
                    (E) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
                Transportation of the Senate;
                    (F) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (G) the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
                Pensions of the Senate;
                    (H) the Committee on Education and the Workforce of 
                the House of Representatives;
                    (I) the President; and
                    (J) relevant Federal and State agencies.
            (2) Information included.--The report submitted under 
        paragraph (1) shall include--
                    (A) an analysis and conclusion of the cause and 
                contributing factors of the Aliso Canyon natural gas 
                leak;
                    (B) an analysis of measures taken to stop the 
                natural gas leak, with an immediate focus on other, 
                more effective measures that could be taken;
                    (C) an assessment of the impact of the natural gas 
                leak on--
                            (i) health, safety, and the environment;
                            (ii) wholesale and retail electricity 
                        prices; and
                            (iii) the reliability of the bulk-power 
                        system;
                    (D) an analysis of how Federal, State, and local 
                agencies responded to the natural gas leak;
                    (E) in order to lessen the negative impacts of 
                leaks from underground natural gas storage facilities, 
                recommendations on how to improve--
                            (i) the response to a future leak; and
                            (ii) coordination between all appropriate 
                        Federal, State, and local agencies in the 
                        response to the Aliso Canyon natural gas leak 
                        and future natural gas leaks;
                    (F) an analysis of the potential for a similar 
                natural gas leak to occur at other underground natural 
                gas storage facilities in the United States;
                    (G) recommendations on how to prevent any future 
                natural gas leaks;
                    (H) recommendations regarding Aliso Canyon and 
                other underground natural gas storage facilities 
                located in close proximity to residential populations;
                    (I) any recommendations on information that is not 
                currently collected but that would be in the public 
                interest to collect and distribute to agencies and 
                institutions for the continued study and monitoring of 
                natural gas storage infrastructure in the United 
                States; and
                    (J) any other recommendations, as appropriate.
            (3) Publication.--The final report under paragraph (1) 
        shall be made available to the public in an electronically 
        accessible format.
            (4) Findings.--If, before the final report is submitted 
        under paragraph (1), the task force established under 
        subsection (a) finds methods to solve the natural gas leak at 
        Aliso Canyon, finds methods to better protect the affected 
        communities, or finds methods to help prevent other leaks, the 
        task force shall immediately submit such findings to the 
        entities described in subparagraphs (A) through (J) of 
        paragraph (1).

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2276

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT
