[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 879 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 879

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 22, 2016.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5931) to provide for the prohibition on cash payments to the 
Government of Iran, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Foreign Affairs. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Foreign Affairs now 
printed in the bill, it shall be in order to consider as an original bill for 
the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule an amendment in the nature 
of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-64. That 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against that amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No 
amendment to that amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order 
except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order 
against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the 
bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate 
vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the 
bill or to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original 
text. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of September 27, 2016, relating to a measure making or 
continuing appropriations for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2017.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
