[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 863 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 863

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 14, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5351) to prohibit the transfer of any 
individual detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment 
printed in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as 
amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services; and 
(2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5226) to amend chapter 3 of title 5, United States Code, to require 
the publication of information relating to pending agency regulatory actions, 
and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 114-63. That amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against that amendment in the nature of 
a substitute are waived. No amendment to that amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be in order except those printed in part B of the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion 
of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report 
the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member 
may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the 
Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the amendment in the nature of a 
substitute made in order as original text. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
