[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3267 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3267

   To protect against threats posed by Iran to the United States and 
          allies of the United States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             July 14, 2016

  Mr. Corker (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Rubio, Mr. Manchin, Mr. 
Cotton, and Mr. Sullivan) introduced the following bill; which was read 
        twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To protect against threats posed by Iran to the United States and 
          allies of the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Countering Iranian 
Threats Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Findings.
       TITLE I--STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING CERTAIN IRANIAN ACTIVITY

Sec. 101. Regional strategy for countering conventional and asymmetric 
                            Iranian activity and threats in the Middle 
                            East and North Africa.
                          TITLE II--SANCTIONS

Sec. 201. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the IRGC.
Sec. 202. Enforcement of arms embargos.
Sec. 203. Imposition of sanctions in response to Iran's ballistic 
                            missile program.
Sec. 204. Continuation in effect of sanctions for Iranian support 
                            relating to terrorism or development of 
                            delivery systems for weapons of mass 
                            destruction.
Sec. 205. Continuation in effect of sanctions with respect to human 
                            rights abuses by Iran.
Sec. 206. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons that 
                            destabilize certain countries or that are 
                            responsible for human rights abuses.
Sec. 207. Codification of sanctions with respect to Iranian activities 
                            undermining cybersecurity.
Sec. 208. Mandatory cyber sanctions.
Sec. 209. Prohibition on licenses for offshore dollar clearing 
                            transactions with Iranian financial 
                            institutions.
Sec. 210. Clarification that freezing of assets of Iranian financial 
                            institutions includes assets in possession 
                            or control of a United States person 
                            pursuant to a U-turn transaction.
Sec. 211. Imposition of sanctions relating to corruption in Iran.
Sec. 212. Extension of Iran Sanctions Act of 1996.
                           TITLE III--REPORTS

Sec. 301. Report on sanctions relief.
Sec. 302. Reports on offshore United States dollar clearing for 
                            transactions involving the Government of 
                            Iran or Iranian persons.
Sec. 303. Report on coordination of sanctions between the United States 
                            and the European Union.
Sec. 304. Reports on Iranian research and development and breakout 
                            times.
Sec. 305. Report on nuclear program cooperation with North Korea.
Sec. 306. Report on use by the Government of Iran of commercial 
                            aircraft and related services for illicit 
                            military or other activities.
Sec. 307. IRGC watch list and report.
Sec. 308. Report on United States citizens detained by Iran.
Sec. 309. Responsibilities of International Atomic Energy Agency.
                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 401. Exceptions for national security and humanitarian assistance.
Sec. 402. Presidential waiver authority for specified sanctions.
Sec. 403. Requests from Congress relating to imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 404. Mandatory investigations.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Act of international terrorism.--The term ``act of 
        international terrorism'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
        172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning given 
        that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (3) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means a 
        person that is not a United States person.
            (4) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign 
        terrorist organization'' means an organization designated as a 
        foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (5) Iranian financial institution.--The term ``Iranian 
        financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
        Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8513b).
            (6) Iranian person.--The term ``Iranian person'' means--
                    (A) an individual who is a citizen or national of 
                Iran; or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of Iran or 
                otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Government 
                of Iran.
            (7) IRGC.--The term ``IRGC'' means Iran's Islamic 
        Revolutionary Guard Corps.
            (8) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
            (9) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or 
        entity.
            (10) Significant activities undermining cybersecurity.--The 
        term ``significant activities undermining cybersecurity'' 
        includes--
                    (A) significant efforts to--
                            (i) deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or 
                        destroy an information and communications 
                        technology system or network; or
                            (ii) exfiltrate information from such a 
                        system or network without authorization;
                    (B) significant destructive malware attacks; and
                    (C) significant denial of service activities.
            (11) State sponsor of terrorism.--The term ``state sponsor 
        of terrorism'' has the meaning given that term in section 301 
        of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
        Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8541).
            (12) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States; 
                or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or of any jurisdiction within the United 
                States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The United States is in no way committed to suspend or 
        refrain from imposing sanctions on Iran for its continued 
        support of acts of international terrorism and other acts that 
        destabilize international order, including the pursuit of 
        chemical and biological weapons of mass destruction programs, 
        malicious cyber activities, or development of or trade in 
        proliferation-sensitive technology such as ballistic and cruise 
        missiles, or the commission of human rights abuses.
            (2) Iran is designated as a state sponsor of terrorism by 
        the United States, and continues to threaten the national 
        security and foreign policy interests of the United States and 
        countries with which the United States shares common strategic 
        and foreign policy objectives.

       TITLE I--STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING CERTAIN IRANIAN ACTIVITY

SEC. 101. REGIONAL STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING CONVENTIONAL AND ASYMMETRIC 
              IRANIAN ACTIVITY AND THREATS IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH 
              AFRICA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 10, 2017, and every 2 years 
thereafter, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the 
Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of National Intelligence 
shall jointly develop and submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a 10-year strategy to counter conventional and asymmetric 
Iranian activities and threats in the Middle East, North Africa, and 
beyond.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall 
include at a minimum the following:
            (1) A summary of the near- and long-term United States 
        objectives, plans, and means for building a regional security 
        architecture capable of and committed to countering Iran's 
        destabilizing activities.
            (2) A summary of United States objectives for individual 
        country capabilities and contributions to the regional security 
        architecture, including an estimated timeline for achieving 
        desired capabilities, for each member of the Gulf Cooperation 
        Council, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, and Israel.
            (3) An assessment of Iran's strategy and objectives for the 
        Middle East region, and an assessment of anticipated 
        modifications to Iranian objectives, policies, and activities 
        for achieving the strategy.
            (4) An assessment of Iran's conventional force 
        capabilities, and an assessment of Iranian plans to upgrade its 
        conventional force capabilities, including its acquisition, 
        development, and deployment of ballistic and cruise missile 
        capabilities, unmanned aerial vehicles, and maritime offensive 
        and anti-access or area denial capabilities, and an assessment 
        of what such capabilities Iran is likely to possess 5, 8, and 
        10 years following the date on which the strategy is submitted.
            (5) An assessment of Iran's chemical and biological weapons 
        capabilities and an assessment of Iranian plans to upgrade its 
        chemical or biological weapons capabilities.
            (6) An assessment of Iran's asymmetric activities in the 
        region, including--
                    (A) the size, capabilities, and activities of the 
                IRGC, including the Quds Force;
                    (B) the size, capabilities, and activities of 
                Iran's cyber operations;
                    (C) the types and amount of support, including 
                funding, lethal and nonlethal contributions, and 
                training, provided to Hezbollah, Hamas, special groups 
                in Iraq, the regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, Houthi 
                fighters in Yemen, and other violent groups across the 
                Middle East;
                    (D) the scope and objectives of Iranian information 
                operations and use of propaganda; and
                    (E) an assessment of anticipated modifications by 
                Iran to the activities described in subparagraphs (A) 
                through (D) over the course of the 10 to 15 years after 
                the strategy is submitted.
            (7) An assessment of Iran's strategy regarding other 
        countries in the region, including Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Yemen, 
        the Palestinian territories, and the countries of the Gulf 
        Cooperation Council, and an assessment of any anticipated 
        modifications to objectives, policies, and activities for 
        achieving that strategy.
            (8) A description of current and planned activities, 
        engagements, exercises, military sales, training, intelligence 
        and surveillance support, and other forms of security 
        assistance and cooperation for United States partners and 
        allies in the region, in order to actively counter current 
        Iranian conventional and asymmetric threats described under 
        paragraphs (3) through (7), as well as to prepare for evolving 
        threats from Iran, including an assessment of the impact of 
        activities described in paragraph (7) on Israel's qualitative 
        military edge.
            (9) An outline of United States authorities, planning, and 
        actions, unilaterally and in cooperation with foreign 
        governments, to counter threats from Iran's conventional force 
        capabilities described in paragraph (4).
            (10) An outline, including specific examples, of United 
        States authorities, planning, and actions, unilaterally and in 
        cooperation with foreign governments, to counter Iran's threat 
        network described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph 
        (6) and in paragraph (7), including--
                    (A) interdiction of Iranian lethal arms bound for 
                groups designated as foreign terrorist organizations;
                    (B) interdiction of Iranian activities and 
                prevention of Iranian harassment or interference in 
                international commercial shipping lanes;
                    (C) countering Iranian attempts to undermine or 
                subvert internationally recognized governments in the 
                Middle East region; and
                    (D) countering Iran's support for the regime of 
                Bashar al-Assad in Syria, including--
                            (i) financial assistance, military 
                        equipment and personnel, and other support 
                        provided to that regime; and
                            (ii) support and direction to other armed 
                        actors that are not Syrian or Iranian and are 
                        acting on behalf of that regime.
            (11) A review of individual country contributions to the 
        regional security architecture.
            (12) A review of efforts to counter Iran's conventional and 
        asymmetric capabilities in the Middle East and North Africa.
            (13) An assessment of the commitment and capabilities of 
        United States allies and partners to countering Iran's 
        conventional and asymmetric capabilities in the Middle East and 
        North Africa.
    (c) Form of Strategy.--The strategy required by subsection (a) 
shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified 
annex.

                          TITLE II--SANCTIONS

SEC. 201. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE IRGC.

    (a) In General.--Beginning on the date that is 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose the 
sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to the IRGC and 
foreign persons that are officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) Sanctions applicable with respect to a foreign person 
        pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
        relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with 
        persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
            (2) Sanctions applicable with respect to an entity that is 
        designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 
        219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).

SEC. 202. ENFORCEMENT OF ARMS EMBARGOS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (d), the 
President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with 
respect to any person that--
            (1) engages in any activity that materially contributes to 
        the supply, sale, or transfer directly or indirectly to or from 
        Iran, or for the use in or benefit of Iran, of any battle 
        tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery 
        systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, 
        missiles or missile systems, as defined for the purpose of the 
        United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, or related 
        materiel, including spare parts; or
            (2) provides to Iran any technical training, financial 
        resources or services, advice, other services or assistance 
        related to the supply, sale, transfer, manufacture, 
        maintenance, or use of arms and related materiel described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
        accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all property and 
        interests in property of any person subject to subsection (a) 
        if such property and interests in property are in the United 
        States, come within the United States, or are or come within 
        the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
        shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
        subsection (a) that is an alien.
    (c) Exceptions and Penalties.--
            (1) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
        requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for 
        purposes of subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Subsection (b)(2) shall not apply if admission to 
        the United States is necessary to permit the United States to 
        comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the 
        United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
        entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
        Nations and the United States.
            (3) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
        violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
        subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
        to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the penalties 
        set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to 
        the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
        described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) Exception.--The President is not required to impose sanctions 
under subsection (a) with respect to a person for engaging in an 
activity described in that subsection if the President certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) permitting the activity is in the national security 
        interest of the United States;
            (2) Iran no longer presents a significant threat to the 
        national security of the United States and to the allies of the 
        United States; and
            (3) the Government of Iran has ceased providing operational 
        or financial support for acts of international terrorism and no 
        longer satisfies the requirements for designation as a state 
        sponsor of terrorism.

SEC. 203. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS IN RESPONSE TO IRAN'S BALLISTIC 
              MISSILE PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to any person that the President 
determines, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act--
            (1) has engaged in any activity that has materially 
        contributed, or poses a risk of materially contributing, to the 
        activities of the Government of Iran with respect to its 
        ballistic missile program, or any other program in Iran for 
        developing, deploying, or maintaining systems capable of 
        delivering weapons of mass destruction, including any efforts 
        to manufacture, acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer, 
        or use such capabilities;
            (2) is a successor entity to a person referred to in 
        paragraph (1);
            (3) owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is 
        under common ownership or control with, a person referred to in 
        paragraph (1);
            (4) is acting for or on behalf of a person referred to in 
        paragraph (1), (2), or (3); or
            (5) has knowingly provided, or attempted to provide, 
        financial, material, technological, or other support for, or 
        goods or services in support of, a person referred to in 
        paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
        accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all property and 
        interests in property of any person subject to subsection (a) 
        if such property and interests in property are in the United 
        States, come within the United States, or are or come within 
        the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
        shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
        subsection (a) that is an alien.
    (c) Exception and Penalties.--
            (1) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
        requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for 
        purposes of subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
        violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
        subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
        to carry out that subsection shall be subject to the penalties 
        set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to 
        the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
        described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President to designate persons 
for the imposition of sanctions pursuant to Executive Order 13382 (50 
U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property of weapons of mass 
destruction delivery system proliferators and their supporters) or 
Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking 
property and prohibiting transactions with persons who commit, threaten 
to commit, or support terrorism), or otherwise pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act.
    (e) Report on Contributions to Iran's Ballistic Missile Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report describing each person that--
                    (A) has, during the period specified in paragraph 
                (2), conducted any activity that has materially 
                contributed, or poses a risk of materially 
                contributing, to the activities of the Government of 
                Iran with respect to its ballistic missile program, or 
                any other program in Iran for developing, deploying, or 
                maintaining systems capable of delivering weapons of 
                mass destruction, including any efforts to manufacture, 
                acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer, or use 
                such capabilities;
                    (B) is a successor entity to a person referred to 
                in subparagraph (A);
                    (C) owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or 
                is under common ownership or control with, a person 
                referred to in subparagraph (A);
                    (D) is acting for or on behalf of a person referred 
                to in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C); or
                    (E) is known or believed to have provided, or 
                attempted to provide, during the period specified in 
                paragraph (2), financial, material, technological, or 
                other support for, or goods or services in support of, 
                any material contribution to any such program carried 
                out by a person described in subparagraph (A), (B), 
                (C), or (D).
            (2) Period specified.--The period specified in this 
        paragraph is--
                    (A) in the case of the first report submitted under 
                paragraph (1), the period beginning on July 14, 2015, 
                and ending on the date the report is submitted; and
                    (B) in the case of a subsequent such report, the 
                180-day period preceding the submission of the report.
            (3) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
        classified annex.
    (f) Report on Sectors Involved in Ballistic Missile Program.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees, and publish in the Federal Register, a list of the 
        sectors of the economy of Iran that are directly or indirectly 
        facilitating, supporting, or involved with the development of 
        or transfer to Iran of ballistic missiles or technology, parts, 
        components, or technology information relating to ballistic 
        missiles.
            (2) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form but may include a 
        classified annex.

SEC. 204. CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF SANCTIONS FOR IRANIAN SUPPORT 
              RELATING TO TERRORISM OR DEVELOPMENT OF DELIVERY SYSTEMS 
              FOR WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.

    (a) In General.--United States sanctions imposed with respect to a 
person under Executive Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
blocking property of weapons of mass destruction delivery system 
proliferators and their supporters) or Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 
1701 note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions 
with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism), and 
imposed as a result of activities described in subsection (b), that are 
in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, 
shall remain in effect until the date that is 90 days after the date on 
which the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees 
the certification described in subsection (c) with respect to the 
person.
    (b) Activities Described.--An activity described in this subsection 
is--
            (1) any activity that materially contributes, or poses a 
        risk of materially contributing, to the activities of the 
        Government of Iran with respect to its ballistic missile 
        program, or any other program in Iran for developing, 
        deploying, or maintaining systems capable of delivering weapons 
        of mass destruction, including any efforts to manufacture, 
        acquire, possess, develop, transport, transfer, or use such 
        capabilities; or
            (2) support for acts of international terrorism.
    (c) Certification.--
            (1) In general.--A certification described in this 
        subsection is a certification that--
                    (A) the person with respect to which sanctions were 
                imposed under Executive Order 13382 or Executive Order 
                13224 has not, during the 12-month period immediately 
                preceding the date of the certification, provided 
                support for, otherwise facilitated or engaged in any 
                activity described in subsection (b); and
                    (B) the person is not expected to resume any such 
                activity.
            (2) Submission to congress.--
                    (A) In general.--The President shall submit the 
                certification described in paragraph (1) to the 
                appropriate congressional committees in writing and 
                shall include a detailed justification for the 
                certification.
                    (B) Form of certification.--The certification 
                described in paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
                unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Reimposition.--If sanctions are suspended with respect to a 
person under this section, such sanctions shall be reinstated if the 
President determines that the person has resumed any activity described 
in subsection (b).

SEC. 205. CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO HUMAN 
              RIGHTS ABUSES BY IRAN.

    (a) In General.--United States sanctions applicable with respect to 
a person under any provision of law specified in subsection (b) for 
involvement in human rights abuses in Iran or on behalf of the 
Government of Iran that are in effect on the day before the date of the 
enactment of this Act shall remain in effect until the date that is 90 
days after the date on which the President submits to the appropriate 
congressional committees the certification described in subsection (c).
    (b) Provisions of Law Specified.--A provision of law specified in 
this subsection is any provision of the following:
            (1) Executive Order 13553 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking property of certain persons with respect to serious 
        human rights abuses by the Government of Iran).
            (2) Executive Order 13606 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking the property and suspending entry into the United 
        States of certain persons with respect to grave human rights 
        abuses by the Governments of Iran and Syria via information 
        technology).
            (3) Executive Order 13628 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        authorizing the implementation of certain sanctions set forth 
        in the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 
        and additional sanctions with respect to Iran).
            (4) The Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
        Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.).
            (5) The Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 
        2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et seq.).
    (c) Certification.--
            (1) In general.--A certification described in this 
        subsection is a certification that--
                    (A) the person with respect to which sanctions were 
                imposed under any provision of law specified in 
                subsection (b) for involvement in human rights abuses 
                described in subsection (a) has not, during the 12-
                month period immediately preceding the date of the 
                certification, provided support for, otherwise 
                facilitated or engaged in any activity for which 
                sanctions may be imposed under any such provision of 
                law for involvement in such human rights abuses; and
                    (B) the person is not expected to resume any such 
                activity.
            (2) Submission to congress.--
                    (A) In general.--The President shall submit the 
                certification described in paragraph (1) to the 
                appropriate congressional committees in writing and 
                shall include a detailed justification for the 
                certification.
                    (B) Form of certification.--The certification 
                described in paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
                unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Reimposition.--If sanctions are suspended with respect to a 
person under this section, such sanctions shall be reinstated if the 
President determines that the person has resumed any activity described 
in subsection (c)(1)(A).
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
any provision of law specified in subsection (b), or any other 
provision of law.

SEC. 206. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS THAT 
              DESTABILIZE CERTAIN COUNTRIES OR THAT ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR 
              HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a list of each 
person the Secretary determines, based on credible evidence--
            (1) has committed, or poses a significant risk of 
        committing, an act or acts of violence that have the purpose or 
        effect of--
                    (A) threatening the peace or stability of a covered 
                country or the government of a covered country;
                    (B) undermining efforts to promote economic 
                reconstruction and political reform in a covered 
                country or to provide humanitarian assistance to the 
                people of a covered country or Syria; or
                    (C) undermining the peace process in Syria;
            (2) has been responsible for or complicit in, or 
        responsible for ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, 
        or has participated in, the commission of human rights abuses 
        in a covered country or Syria, including human rights abuses 
        related to repression;
            (3) has committed or facilitated, directly or indirectly, 
        human rights abuses or other acts of violence, intimidation, or 
        harassment, in Iran on or after June 12, 2009, on behalf of the 
        Government of Iran;
            (4) has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided 
        financial, material, logistical, or technical support for, or 
        goods or services in support of, an activity described in 
        paragraph (1), (2), or (3) or any person who engages in such an 
        activity;
            (5) has been responsible for extrajudicial killings, 
        torture, or other gross violations of internationally 
        recognized human rights committed against individuals in Iran 
        who seek--
                    (A) to expose illegal activity carried out by 
                officials of the Government of Iran; or
                    (B) to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote 
                internationally recognized human rights and freedoms, 
                such as the freedoms of religion, expression, 
                association, and assembly, and the rights to a fair 
                trial and democratic elections;
            (6) has acted as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign 
        person in a matter relating to an activity described in 
        paragraph (5);
            (7) has been a government official, or a senior associate 
        of such an official, responsible for, or complicit in, 
        ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing, acts of 
        significant corruption in Iran, including the expropriation of 
        private or public assets for personal gain, corruption related 
        to government contracts or the extraction of natural resources, 
        bribery, or the facilitation or transfer of the proceeds of 
        corruption to foreign jurisdictions; or
            (8) has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided 
        financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or 
        services in support of, an activity described in paragraph (7).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) In general.--The President may, in accordance with the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
        seq.), block all transactions in all property and interests in 
        property of a person on the list required by subsection (a) if 
        such property and interests in property are in the United 
        States, come within the United States, or are or come within 
        the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
        requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for 
        purposes of this section.
            (3) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
        violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
        paragraph (1) or any regulation, license, or order issued to 
        carry out paragraph (1) shall be subject to the penalties set 
        forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to 
        the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
        described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (c) Covered Country Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
country'' means Bahrain, Iraq, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Saudi Arabia, 
Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, or Yemen.

SEC. 207. CODIFICATION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRANIAN ACTIVITIES 
              UNDERMINING CYBERSECURITY.

    (a) In General.--United States sanctions with respect to activities 
of the Government of Iran, persons acting for or on behalf of that 
Government, or persons located in Iran that undermine cybersecurity 
provided for in Executive Order 13694 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
blocking the property of certain persons engaging in significant 
malicious cyber-enabled activities), as that Executive order is in 
effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall 
remain in effect until the date that is 90 days after the date on which 
the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees the 
certification described in subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--
            (1) In general.--A certification described in this 
        subsection is a certification that--
                    (A) the person with respect to which sanctions were 
                imposed under Executive Order 13694 has not, during the 
                12-month period immediately preceding the date of the 
                certification, provided support for, otherwise 
                facilitated or engaged in any activity for which 
                sanctions may be imposed under that Executive order (as 
                in effect on the day before the date of the enactment 
                of this Act); and
                    (B) the person is not expected to resume any such 
                activity.
            (2) Submission to congress.--
                    (A) In general.--The President shall submit the 
                certification described in paragraph (1) to the 
                appropriate congressional committees in writing and 
                shall include a detailed justification for the 
                certification.
                    (B) Form of certification.--The certification 
                described in paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
                unclassified form but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Reimposition.--If sanctions are suspended with respect to a 
person under this section, such sanctions shall be reinstated if the 
President determines that the person has resumed any activity for which 
sanctions may be imposed under Executive Order 13694 (as in effect on 
the day before the date of the enactment of this Act).
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).

SEC. 208. MANDATORY CYBER SANCTIONS.

    (a) Mandatory Designations.--The President shall designate any 
person under this subsection that the President determines has directly 
or indirectly engaged in significant activities undermining 
cybersecurity by the Government of Iran or any person acting for or on 
behalf of the Government of Iran in connection with such activities.
    (b) Effect of Designation.--A person designated pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall be subject to all applicable sanctions specified 
in Executive Order 13694 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking the 
property of certain persons engaging in significant malicious cyber-
enabled activities).
    (c) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report that describes significant activities 
        undermining cybersecurity conducted by the Government of Iran, 
        a person owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that 
        Government, or any person acting for or on behalf of that 
        Government.
            (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        include--
                    (A) an assessment of the extent to which a foreign 
                government has provided material support to the 
                Government of Iran, to any person owned or controlled, 
                directly or indirectly, by that Government, or to any 
                person acting for or on behalf of that Government, in 
                connection with the conduct of significant activities 
                undermining cybersecurity; and
                    (B) a strategy for the United States to counter 
                Iran's efforts to conduct significant activities 
                undermining cybersecurity directed against the United 
                States that includes a description of the efforts of 
                the United States to engage foreign governments in 
                preventing the Government of Iran, persons owned or 
                controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Government, 
                and persons acting for or on behalf of that Government 
                from conducting significant activities undermining 
                cybersecurity.
            (3) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in an unclassified form but may include a 
        classified annex.

SEC. 209. PROHIBITION ON LICENSES FOR OFFSHORE DOLLAR CLEARING 
              TRANSACTIONS WITH IRANIAN FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS.

    (a) In General.--The President may not issue any license under the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to 
an offshore dollar clearing entity to conduct a transaction with an 
Iranian financial institution in United States dollars.
    (b) Submission of Documents to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a copy of each document 
        described in paragraph (2) not later than 30 days after the 
        issuance of the document.
            (2) Documents described.--A document described in this 
        paragraph is any guidance, including executive actions, rules, 
        regulations, frequently asked question documents, written 
        communications, or any other commitments issued to an offshore 
        dollar clearing entity regarding offshore dollar clearance for 
        transactions with an Iranian financial institution in United 
        States dollars.
    (c) Termination.--This section shall terminate on the date on which 
the President certifies to Congress that Iran is no longer a state 
sponsor of terrorism.

SEC. 210. CLARIFICATION THAT FREEZING OF ASSETS OF IRANIAN FINANCIAL 
              INSTITUTIONS INCLUDES ASSETS IN POSSESSION OR CONTROL OF 
              A UNITED STATES PERSON PURSUANT TO A U-TURN TRANSACTION.

    Section 1245(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8513a(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The President'' and inserting:
            ``(1) In general.--The President''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Treatment of certain transactions.--
                    ``(A) U-turn transactions.--Property that comes 
                within the possession or control of a United States 
                person pursuant to a transfer of funds that arises 
                from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give 
                effect to, an underlying transaction shall be 
                considered to come within the possession or control of 
                that person for purposes of paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Book transfers.--A transfer of funds or other 
                property for the benefit of an Iranian financial 
                institution that is made between accounts of the same 
                financial institution shall be considered property or 
                interests in property of that Iranian financial 
                institution for purposes of paragraph (1) even if that 
                Iranian financial institution is not the direct 
                recipient of the transfer.''.

SEC. 211. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS RELATING TO CORRUPTION IN IRAN.

    (a) In General.--The President is authorized and encouraged to 
impose the sanctions described in section 9(b) of the Support for the 
Sovereignty, Integrity, Democracy, and Economic Stability of Ukraine 
Act of 2014 (22 U.S.C. 8908(b)) with respect to--
            (1) any official of the Government of Iran, or a close 
        associate or family member of such an official, or any other 
        person that the President determines is responsible for, or 
        complicit in, or responsible for ordering, controlling, or 
        otherwise directing, acts of significant corruption in Iran, 
        including the expropriation of private or public assets for 
        personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or 
        the extraction of natural resources, bribery, or the 
        facilitation or transfer of the proceeds of corruption to 
        foreign jurisdictions; and
            (2) any individual who has assisted, sponsored, or provided 
        financial, material, or technological support for, or goods or 
        services in support of, an act described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to violate, 
conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (a) or any 
regulation, license, or order issued to carry out subsection (a) shall 
be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of 
section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful 
act described in subsection (a) of that section.

SEC. 212. EXTENSION OF IRAN SANCTIONS ACT OF 1996.

    Section 13(b) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2026''.

                           TITLE III--REPORTS

SEC. 301. REPORT ON SANCTIONS RELIEF.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
detailing--
            (1) the estimated monetary value of any sanctions relief 
        that Iran has received since July 14, 2015;
            (2) Iran's use of funds made available pursuant to such 
        sanctions relief, including--
                    (A) whether and the degree to which Iran used any 
                such funds to support acts of international terrorism 
                and the regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria, to advance 
                nuclear weapons or ballistic missile efforts, or to 
                commit any violation of the human rights of the people 
                of Iran; and
                    (B) whether Iran's access to such funds resulted in 
                an increase in the resources Iran devoted to activities 
                described in subparagraph (A); and
            (3) the extent to which senior officials of the Government 
        of Iran have diverted any such funds into their personal 
        accounts.
    (b) Report Before Providing Iran Access to the United States 
Dollar.--Not later than 30 days before the President implements any 
measure that would provide access to the United States dollar to the 
Government of Iran or an Iranian person, the President shall submit to 
Congress a report that describes the measure.
    (c) Form of Report.--Each report required by this section shall be 
submitted in an unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 302. REPORTS ON OFFSHORE UNITED STATES DOLLAR CLEARING FOR 
              TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OR IRANIAN 
              PERSONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
the Treasury shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
and publish in the Federal Register a report that contains--
            (1) a list of any financial institutions that the Secretary 
        has identified as--
                    (A) operating an offshore United States dollar 
                clearing system that conducts transactions involving 
                the Government of Iran or an Iranian person; or
                    (B) participating in a transaction described in 
                subparagraph (A) through a system described in that 
                clause; and
            (2) a detailed assessment of the status of efforts by the 
        Secretary to prevent the conduct of transactions described in 
        paragraph (1)(A) through systems described in that 
        subparagraph.
    (b) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 303. REPORT ON COORDINATION OF SANCTIONS BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES 
              AND THE EUROPEAN UNION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
includes the following:
            (1) A description of each instance, during the period 
        specified in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in which the United States has imposed 
                sanctions with respect to a person for activity related 
                to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or 
                delivery systems for such weapons to or by Iran, 
                support for acts of international terrorism by Iran, or 
                human rights abuses in Iran, but in which the European 
                Union has not imposed corresponding sanctions; and
                    (B) in which the European Union has imposed 
                sanctions with respect to a person for activity related 
                to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction or 
                delivery systems for such weapons to or by Iran, 
                support for acts of international terrorism by Iran, or 
                human rights abuses in Iran, but in which the United 
                States has not imposed corresponding sanctions.
            (2) An explanation for the reason for each discrepancy 
        between sanctions imposed by the European Union and sanctions 
        imposed by the United States described in subparagraphs (A) and 
        (B) of paragraph (1).
    (b) Period Specified.--The period specified in this subsection is--
            (1) in the case of the first report submitted under 
        subsection (a), the period beginning on September 1, 2009, and 
        ending on the date the report is submitted; and
            (2) in the case of a subsequent such report, the 180-day 
        period preceding the submission of the report.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 304. REPORTS ON IRANIAN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND BREAKOUT 
              TIMES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than January 10, 2017, and every 180 
days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report detailing--
            (1) any research and development conducted by Iran that may 
        substantially reduce the time for Iran to acquire a nuclear 
        weapon;
            (2) an assessment of the period of time it would take Iran 
        to acquire the nuclear material to produce one nuclear weapon; 
        and
            (3) an assessment of the capacity and capability of the 
        International Atomic Energy Agency to effectively monitor the 
        nuclear program of Iran, including whether the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency is receiving sufficient access to 
        investigate suspicious sites or allegations of covert nuclear-
        related activities and whether it has the required funding, 
        manpower, and authorities to undertake the required 
        verification regime inside Iran.
    (b) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 305. REPORT ON NUCLEAR PROGRAM COOPERATION WITH NORTH KOREA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on any cooperation between Iran and 
North Korea on their nuclear programs, including the identity of 
Iranian and North Korean persons that have knowingly engaged in or 
directed the provision of material support or the exchange of 
information between North Korea and Iran on their respective nuclear 
programs.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 306. REPORT ON USE BY THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OF COMMERCIAL 
              AIRCRAFT AND RELATED SERVICES FOR ILLICIT MILITARY OR 
              OTHER ACTIVITIES.

    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
the use by the Government of Iran of commercial aircraft and related 
services for illicit military or other activities during the period 
specified in subsection (c).
    (b) Elements of Report.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) a description of the extent to which the Government of 
        Iran has used commercial aircraft or related services to 
        transport illicit cargo to or from Iran, including military 
        goods, weapons, military personnel, military-related electronic 
        parts and mechanical equipment, and rocket or missile 
        components;
            (2) a list of airports outside of Iran at which such 
        aircraft have landed;
            (3) a description of the extent to which the commercial 
        aviation sector of Iran has provided financial, material, and 
        technological support to the IRGC or any of its agents or 
        affiliates, including Mahan Air;
            (4) a description of the extent to which foreign 
        governments and persons have facilitated the activities 
        described in paragraph (1), including allowing the use of 
        airports, services, or other resources; and
            (5) a description of the efforts of the President to 
        address the activities described in paragraphs (1), (3), and 
        (4).
    (c) Period Specified.--The period specified in this subsection is--
            (1) in the case of the first report submitted under 
        subsection (a), the period beginning on the date that is 5 
        years before the date of the enactment of this Act and ending 
        on the date the report is submitted; and
            (2) in the case of a subsequent such report, the 180-day 
        period preceding the submission of the report.

SEC. 307. IRGC WATCH LIST AND REPORT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish, 
maintain, and publish in the Federal Register a list (to be known as 
the ``IRGC Watch List'') of--
            (1) each entity in which the IRGC or an agent or affiliate 
        of the IRGC has an ownership interest of less than 25 percent;
            (2) each entity in which the IRGC does not have an 
        ownership interest if the IRGC or an agent or affiliate of the 
        IRGC maintains a presence on the board of directors of the 
        entity or otherwise influences the actions, policies, or 
        personnel decisions of the entity; and
            (3) each person that controls, manages, or directs an 
        entity described in paragraph (1) or (2).
    (b) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        Secretary of the Treasury shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report that includes--
                    (A) the list required by subsection (a) and, in the 
                case of any report submitted under this subsection 
                after the first such report, any changes to the list 
                since the submission of the preceding such report; and
                    (B) an assessment of the role of the IRGC and its 
                agents and affiliates in, and its penetration into, the 
                economy of Iran.
            (2) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.

SEC. 308. REPORT ON UNITED STATES CITIZENS DETAINED BY IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
United States citizens, including United States citizens who are also 
citizens of other countries, detained by Iran or groups supported by 
Iran that includes--
            (1) information regarding any officials of the Government 
        of Iran involved in any way in the detentions; and
            (2) a summary of efforts the United States Government has 
        taken to secure the swift release of those United States 
        citizens.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 309. RESPONSIBILITIES OF INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the International Atomic Energy Agency must have 
        sufficient funding, manpower, and authority to undertake its 
        verification responsibilities; and
            (2) the President should engage with international partners 
        to ensure that the International Atomic Energy Agency is fully 
        funded.
    (b) Report.--Not later than January 10, 2017, and every 180 days 
thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report outlining efforts with international partners to 
achieve the goal described in subsection (a) and identifying 
impediments to achieving that goal.
    (c) Government Accountability Office Report.--Not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
thereafter, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees a report assessing the 
capacity of the International Atomic Energy Agency to fulfill its 
verification responsibilities in Iran.
    (d) Form of Report.--Each report required by this section shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL PROVISIONS

SEC. 401. EXCEPTIONS FOR NATIONAL SECURITY AND HUMANITARIAN ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--The following activities shall be exempt from 
sanctions under sections 201, 203, 204, 205, 207, and 208:
            (1) Any activity subject to the reporting requirements 
        under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3091 et seq.), or to any authorized intelligence activities of 
        the United States.
            (2) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States 
        obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and 
        the United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the 
        United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
        entered into force November 21, 1947, or under the Convention 
        on Consular Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and 
        entered into force March 19, 1967.
            (3) The conduct or facilitation of a transaction for the 
        sale of agricultural commodities, food, medicine, or medical 
        devices to Iran or for the provision of humanitarian assistance 
        to the people of Iran, including engaging in a financial 
        transaction relating to humanitarian assistance or for 
        humanitarian purposes, transporting goods or services that are 
        necessary to carry out operations relating to humanitarian 
        assistance or humanitarian purposes, and having merely 
        incidental contact, in the course of providing humanitarian 
        assistance or aid for humanitarian purposes, with individuals 
        who are under the control of a foreign person subject to 
        sanctions under this Act.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Agricultural commodity.--The term ``agricultural 
        commodity'' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of 
        the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
            (2) Medical device.--The term ``medical device'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``device'' in section 201 of the Federal 
        Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
            (3) Medicine.--The term ``medicine'' has the meaning given 
        the term ``drug'' in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
        Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).

SEC. 402. PRESIDENTIAL WAIVER AUTHORITY FOR SPECIFIED SANCTIONS.

    (a) Case-by-Case Waiver Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (d), the President 
        may waive, on a case-by-case basis and for a period of not more 
        than 180 days, a requirement under section 203, 205, 207, or 
        208 to impose sanctions with respect to a person, and may waive 
        the continued imposition of such sanctions, not less than 30 
        days after the President determines and reports to the 
        appropriate congressional committees that it is vital to the 
        national security interests of the United States to waive such 
        sanctions.
            (2) Renewal of waivers.--The President may, on a case-by-
        case basis, renew a waiver under paragraph (1) for an 
        additional period of not more than 180 days if, not later than 
        15 days before that waiver expires, the President makes the 
        determination and submits to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report described in paragraph (1).
            (3) Successive renewal.--The renewal authority provided 
        under paragraph (2) may be exercised for additional successive 
        periods of not more than 180 days if the President follows the 
        procedures set forth in paragraph (2), and submits the report 
        described in paragraph (1), for each such renewal.
    (b) Contents of Waiver Reports.--Each report submitted under 
subsection (a) in connection with a waiver of sanctions under section 
203, 205, 207, or 208 with respect to a person, or the renewal of such 
a waiver, shall include--
            (1) a specific and detailed rationale for the determination 
        that the waiver is vital to the national security interests of 
        the United States;
            (2) a description of the activity that resulted in the 
        person being subject to sanctions under section 203, 205, 207, 
        or 208;
            (3) an explanation of the efforts made by the United States 
        to secure the cooperation of the government with primary 
        jurisdiction over the person or the location where the activity 
        described in paragraph (2) occurred in terminating or, as 
        appropriate, penalizing the activity;
            (4) an assessment of the significance of the activity 
        described in paragraph (2) in contributing to the ability of 
        Iran to threaten the interests of the United States or allies 
        of the United States, develop systems capable of delivering 
        weapons of mass destruction, destabilize any foreign country, 
        support international terrorism, or violate the human rights of 
        any person in Iran; and
            (5) a statement with respect to the anticipated response of 
        the United States in the event that the person engages in 
        additional activities that would be subject to sanctions under 
        section 203, 205, 207, or 208.
    (c) Effect of Report on Waiver.--If the President submits a report 
under subsection (a) in connection with a waiver of sanctions under 
section 203, 205, 207, or 208 with respect to a person, or the renewal 
of such a waiver, the President shall not be required to impose 
sanctions under section 203, 205, 207, or 208, as applicable, with 
respect to the person described in the report during the 30-day period 
referred to in subsection (a).
    (d) Limitations on Waiver Use.--
            (1) Applicability to agreements with iran.--The President 
        may not exercise the waiver authority provided under subsection 
        (a) to implement, effectuate, support, satisfy, or fulfill the 
        terms of any international agreement pertaining to Iran, 
        whether legally binding under international law or not, unless, 
        before the President exercises the waiver authority, the 
        agreement is approved through the enactment of a joint 
        resolution or the Senate provides its advice and consent with 
        respect to the agreement pursuant to section 2 of article II of 
        the Constitution of the United States.
            (2) Consultations with foreign governments.--The President 
        may exercise the waiver authority provided under subsection (a) 
        with respect to a foreign person only after the President has--
                    (A) consulted with the foreign government with 
                primary jurisdiction over the person or the location 
                where the activity subject to sanctions under section 
                203, 205, 207, or 208 occurred with respect to the 
                activity; and
                    (B) attempted to secure the cooperation of the 
                foreign government with primary jurisdiction over the 
                person or activity in terminating or, as appropriate, 
                imposing penalties for the activity.
            (3) Licensing authority.--No licensing authority provided 
        by this Act or in the International Emergency Economic Powers 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) shall be used to implement, 
        effectuate, support, satisfy, or fulfill the terms of any 
        international agreement pertaining to Iran entered into after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, whether legally binding 
        under international law or not, unless, before the exercise of 
        the licensing authority, the agreement is approved through the 
        enactment of a joint resolution or the Senate provides its 
        advice and consent with respect to the agreement pursuant to 
        section 2 of article II of the Constitution of the United 
        States.
    (e) Case-by-Case Defined.--In this section, the term ``case-by-
case'', with respect to a waiver of sanctions--
            (1) means only that sanctions may be waived with respect to 
        a single person; and
            (2) does not authorize a waiver of sanctions with respect 
        to a category of activity or class of transactions.

SEC. 403. REQUESTS FROM CONGRESS RELATING TO IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after receiving a written 
request from the chairperson and ranking member of one of the 
appropriate congressional committees with respect to whether a person 
should be subject to sanctions under section 201, 202, 203, 204, 205, 
207, or 208, the President shall submit to the chairperson and ranking 
member of that committee a response addressing the status of that 
person.
    (b) Form.--Each response required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

SEC. 404. MANDATORY INVESTIGATIONS.

    (a) Initiation.--Upon receipt by the President of credible 
information indicating that a person is engaged in activity subject to 
sanctions under section 201, 202, 203, 206, or 208, the President shall 
initiate an investigation to determine whether the person is subject to 
any such sanctions.
    (b) Personnel.--The President may direct the Secretary of State, 
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of such other Federal 
agencies as may be necessary to assign sufficient experienced and 
qualified investigators, attorneys, and technical personnel to conduct 
investigations under subsection (a).
    (c) Determination and Notification.--Except as otherwise provided 
by this Act, not later than 180 days after initiating an investigation 
under subsection (a) with respect to a person, the President shall--
            (1) determine whether the person is subject to sanctions 
        under section 201, 202, 203, 206, or 208; and
            (2) if the President determines that the person is subject 
        to any of such sanctions, impose the applicable sanctions with 
        respect to that person.
                                 <all>
