[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2250 Reported in House (RH)]

                                                  Union Calendar No. 78
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2250

                          [Report No. 114-110]

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 12, 2015

 Mr. Graves of Georgia, from the Committee on Appropriations, reported 
 the following bill; which was committed to the Committee of the Whole 
       House on the State of the Union and ordered to be printed

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.


 


    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled, That the following sums 
are appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
appropriated, for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year ending 
September 30, 2016, and for other purposes, namely:

                      TITLE I--LEGISLATIVE BRANCH

                        HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

      Payment to Widows and Heirs of Deceased Members of Congress

    For payment to Tori B. Nunnelee, widow of Alan Nunnelee, late a 
Representative from the State of Mississippi, $174,000.

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the House of Representatives, 
$1,180,736,000, as follows:

                        House Leadership Offices

    For salaries and expenses, as authorized by law, $22,278,891, 
including: Office of the Speaker, $6,645,417, including $25,000 for 
official expenses of the Speaker; Office of the Majority Floor Leader, 
$2,180,048, including $10,000 for official expenses of the Majority 
Leader; Office of the Minority Floor Leader, $7,114,471, including 
$10,000 for official expenses of the Minority Leader; Office of the 
Majority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Majority Whip, $1,886,632, 
including $5,000 for official expenses of the Majority Whip; Office of 
the Minority Whip, including the Chief Deputy Minority Whip, 
$1,459,639, including $5,000 for official expenses of the Minority 
Whip; Republican Conference, $1,505,426; Democratic Caucus, $1,487,258: 
Provided, That such amount for salaries and expenses shall remain 
available from January 3, 2016 until January 2, 2017.

                  Members' Representational Allowances

   Including Members' Clerk Hire, Official Expenses of Members, and 
                             Official Mail

    For Members' representational allowances, including Members' clerk 
hire, official expenses, and official mail, $554,317,732.

                          Committee Employees

                Standing Committees, Special and Select

    For salaries and expenses of standing committees, special and 
select, authorized by House resolutions, $123,903,173: Provided, That 
such amount shall remain available for such salaries and expenses until 
December 31, 2016.

                      Committee on Appropriations

    For salaries and expenses of the Committee on Appropriations, 
$23,271,004, including studies and examinations of executive agencies 
and temporary personal services for such committee, to be expended in 
accordance with section 202(b) of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 
1946 and to be available for reimbursement to agencies for services 
performed: Provided, That such amount shall remain available for such 
salaries and expenses until December 31, 2016.

                    Salaries, Officers and Employees

    For compensation and expenses of officers and employees, as 
authorized by law, $175,713,679, including: for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of the Clerk, including the positions of the Chaplain and 
the Historian, and including not more than $25,000, of which not more 
than $20,000 is for the Family Room and not more than $2,000 is for the 
Office of the Chaplain, for official representation and reception 
expenses, $24,980,898; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Sergeant at Arms, including the position of Superintendent of Garages 
and the Office of Emergency Management, and including not more than 
$3,000 for official representation and reception expenses, $14,827,120 
of which $4,784,229 shall remain available until expended; for salaries 
and expenses of the Office of the Chief Administrative Officer 
including not more than $3,000 for official representation and 
reception expenses, $115,010,000, of which $1,350,000 shall remain 
available until expended; for salaries and expenses of the Office of 
the Inspector General, $4,741,809; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of General Counsel, $1,413,450; for salaries and expenses of the 
Office of the Parliamentarian, including the Parliamentarian, $2,000 
for preparing the Digest of Rules, and not more than $1,000 for 
official representation and reception expenses, $1,974,606; for 
salaries and expenses of the Office of the Law Revision Counsel of the 
House, $3,119,766; for salaries and expenses of the Office of the 
Legislative Counsel of the House, $8,352,975; for salaries and expenses 
of the Office of Interparliamentary Affairs, $814,069; for other 
authorized employees, $478,986.

                        Allowances and Expenses

    For allowances and expenses as authorized by House resolution or 
law, $281,251,521, including: supplies, materials, administrative costs 
and Federal tort claims, $3,625,236; official mail for committees, 
leadership offices, and administrative offices of the House, $190,486; 
Government contributions for health, retirement, Social Security, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $254,447,514, to remain available 
until March 31, 2017; Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery, 
$16,217,008 of which $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended; 
transition activities for new members and staff, $2,084,000, to remain 
available until expended; Wounded Warrior Program $2,500,000, to remain 
available until expended; Office of Congressional Ethics, $1,467,030; 
and miscellaneous items including purchase, exchange, maintenance, 
repair and operation of House motor vehicles, interparliamentary 
receptions, and gratuities to heirs of deceased employees of the House, 
$720,247.

                       Administrative Provisions

    Sec. 101. (a) Requiring Amounts Remaining in Members' 
Representational Allowances To Be Used for Deficit Reduction or To 
Reduce the Federal Debt.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, 
any amounts appropriated under this Act for ``HOUSE OF 
REPRESENTATIVES--Salaries and Expenses--Members' Representational 
Allowances'' shall be available only for fiscal year 2016. Any amount 
remaining after all payments are made under such allowances for fiscal 
year 2016 shall be deposited in the Treasury and used for deficit 
reduction (or, if there is no Federal budget deficit after all such 
payments have been made, for reducing the Federal debt, in such manner 
as the Secretary of the Treasury considers appropriate).
    (b) Regulations.--The Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives shall have authority to prescribe regulations 
to carry out this section.
    (c) Definition.--As used in this section, the term ``Member of the 
House of Representatives'' means a Representative in, or a Delegate or 
Resident Commissioner to, the Congress.

                   delivery of bills and resolutions

    Sec. 102.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of a bill, joint resolution, or resolution to 
the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) unless the Member 
requests a copy.

                    delivery of congressional record

    Sec. 103.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of any version of the Congressional Record to 
the office of a Member of the House of Representatives (including a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress).

            limitation on amount available to lease vehicles

    Sec. 104.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be used 
by the Chief Administrative Officer of the House of Representatives to 
make any payments from any Members' Representational Allowance for the 
leasing of a vehicle, excluding mobile district offices, in an 
aggregate amount that exceeds $1,000 for the vehicle in any month.

           limitation on printed copies of u.s. code to house

    Sec. 105.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to provide an aggregate number of more than 50 printed copies of any 
edition of the United States Code to all offices of the House of 
Representatives.

                  delivery of reports of disbursements

    Sec. 106.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to deliver a printed copy of the report of disbursements for the 
operations of the House of Representatives under section 106 of the 
House of Representatives Administrative Reform Technical Corrections 
Act (2 U.S.C. 5535) to the office of a Member of the House of 
Representatives (including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the 
Congress).

                       delivery of daily calendar

    Sec. 107.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be used 
to deliver to the office of a Member of the House of Representatives 
(including a Delegate or Resident Commissioner to the Congress) a 
printed copy of the Daily Calendar of the House of Representatives 
which is prepared by the Clerk of the House of Representatives.

                              JOINT ITEMS

    For Joint Committees, as follows:

                        Joint Economic Committee

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Economic Committee, 
$4,203,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of the Senate.

                      Joint Committee on Taxation

    For salaries and expenses of the Joint Committee on Taxation, 
$10,095,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer of the 
House of Representatives.
    For other joint items, as follows:

                   Office of the Attending Physician

    For medical supplies, equipment, and contingent expenses of the 
emergency rooms, and for the Attending Physician and his assistants, 
including:
            (1) an allowance of $2,175 per month to the Attending 
        Physician;
            (2) an allowance of $1,300 per month to the Senior Medical 
        Officer;
            (3) an allowance of $725 per month each to three medical 
        officers while on duty in the Office of the Attending 
        Physician;
            (4) an allowance of $725 per month to 2 assistants and $580 
        per month each not to exceed 11 assistants on the basis 
        heretofore provided for such assistants; and
            (5) $2,692,000 for reimbursement to the Department of the 
        Navy for expenses incurred for staff and equipment assigned to 
        the Office of the Attending Physician, which shall be advanced 
        and credited to the applicable appropriation or appropriations 
        from which such salaries, allowances, and other expenses are 
        payable and shall be available for all the purposes thereof, 
        $3,784,000, to be disbursed by the Chief Administrative Officer 
        of the House of Representatives.

             Office of Congressional Accessibility Services

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Congressional 
Accessibility Services, $1,387,000, to be disbursed by the Secretary of 
the Senate.

                             CAPITOL POLICE

                                Salaries

    For salaries of employees of the Capitol Police, including 
overtime, hazardous duty pay, and Government contributions for health, 
retirement, social security, professional liability insurance, and 
other applicable employee benefits, $300,000,000 of which overtime 
shall not exceed $30,928,000 unless the Committee on Appropriations of 
the House and Senate are notified, to be disbursed by the Chief of the 
Capitol Police or his designee.

                            General Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Capitol Police, including motor 
vehicles, communications and other equipment, security equipment and 
installation, uniforms, weapons, supplies, materials, training, medical 
services, forensic services, stenographic services, personal and 
professional services, the employee assistance program, the awards 
program, postage, communication services, travel advances, relocation 
of instructor and liaison personnel for the Federal Law Enforcement 
Training Center, and not more than $5,000 to be expended on the 
certification of the Chief of the Capitol Police in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses, $69,000,000, to be 
disbursed by the Chief of the Capitol Police or his designee: Provided, 
That, notwithstanding any other provision of law, the cost of basic 
training for the Capitol Police at the Federal Law Enforcement Training 
Center for fiscal year 2016 shall be paid by the Secretary of Homeland 
Security from funds available to the Department of Homeland Security.

                        Administrative Provision

        deposit of reimbursements for law enforcement assistance

    Sec. 1001. (a) In General.--Section 2802(a)(1) of the Supplemental 
Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1905(a)(1)) is amended by striking 
``District of Columbia)'' and inserting the following: ``District of 
Columbia), and from any other source in the case of assistance provided 
in connection with an activity that was not sponsored by Congress''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2802(a)(2) of such Act (2 U.S.C. 
1905(a)(2)) is amended by striking ``law enforcement assistance to any 
Federal, State, or local government agency (including any agency of the 
District of Columbia)'' and inserting ``any law enforcement assistance 
for which reimbursement described in paragraph (1) is made''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to any reimbursement received before, on, or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.

                          OFFICE OF COMPLIANCE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses of the Office of Compliance, as 
authorized by section 305 of the Congressional Accountability Act of 
1995 (2 U.S.C. 1385), $3,959,000, of which $450,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2017: Provided, That not more than $500 
may be expended on the certification of the Executive Director of the 
Office of Compliance in connection with official representation and 
reception expenses.

                      CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For salaries and expenses necessary for operation of the 
Congressional Budget Office, including not more than $6,000 to be 
expended on the certification of the Director of the Congressional 
Budget Office in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses, $47,270,000.

                        ARCHITECT OF THE CAPITOL

                  Capitol Construction and Operations

    For salaries for the Architect of the Capitol, and other personal 
services, at rates of pay provided by law; for all necessary expenses 
for surveys and studies, construction, operation, and general and 
administrative support in connection with facilities and activities 
under the care of the Architect of the Capitol including the Botanic 
Garden; electrical substations of the Capitol, Senate and House office 
buildings, and other facilities under the jurisdiction of the Architect 
of the Capitol; including furnishings and office equipment; including 
not more than $5,000 for official reception and representation 
expenses, to be expended as the Architect of the Capitol may approve; 
for purchase or exchange, maintenance, and operation of a passenger 
motor vehicle, $90,946,000.

                            Capitol Building

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol, $46,737,000, of which $22,737,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2020.

                            Capitol Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for care and improvement of grounds 
surrounding the Capitol, the Senate and House office buildings, and the 
Capitol Power Plant, $11,880,000, of which $2,000,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2020.

                         House Office Buildings

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the House office buildings, $149,962,000, of which $23,886,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020, and of which $62,000,000 
shall remain available until expended for the restoration and 
renovation of the Cannon House Office Building.
    In addition, for a payment to the House Historic Buildings 
Revitalization Trust Fund, $10,000,000, to remain available until 
expended.

                          Capitol Power Plant

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Capitol Power Plant; lighting, heating, power (including the 
purchase of electrical energy) and water and sewer services for the 
Capitol, Senate and House office buildings, Library of Congress 
buildings, and the grounds about the same, Botanic Garden, Senate 
garage, and air conditioning refrigeration not supplied from plants in 
any of such buildings; heating the Government Printing Office and 
Washington City Post Office, and heating and chilled water for air 
conditioning for the Supreme Court Building, the Union Station complex, 
the Thurgood Marshall Federal Judiciary Building and the Folger 
Shakespeare Library, expenses for which shall be advanced or reimbursed 
upon request of the Architect of the Capitol and amounts so received 
shall be deposited into the Treasury to the credit of this 
appropriation, $91,549,898, of which $14,408,898 shall remain available 
until September 30, 2020: Provided, That not more than $9,000,000 of 
the funds credited or to be reimbursed to this appropriation as herein 
provided shall be available for obligation during fiscal year 2016.

                     Library Buildings and Grounds

    For all necessary expenses for the mechanical and structural 
maintenance, care and operation of the Library buildings and grounds, 
$36,589,000, of which $11,646,000 shall remain available until 
September 30, 2020.

             Capitol Police Buildings, Grounds and Security

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of buildings, grounds and security enhancements of the United States 
Capitol Police, wherever located, the Alternate Computer Facility, and 
AOC security operations, $22,058,000, of which $4,525,000 shall remain 
available until September 30, 2020.

                             Botanic Garden

    For all necessary expenses for the maintenance, care and operation 
of the Botanic Garden and the nurseries, buildings, grounds, and 
collections; and purchase and exchange, maintenance, repair, and 
operation of a passenger motor vehicle; all under the direction of the 
Joint Committee on the Library, $11,892,000; of which $2,100,000 shall 
remain available until September 30, 2020: Provided, That of the amount 
made available under this heading, the Architect of the Capitol may 
obligate and expend such sums as may be necessary for the maintenance, 
care and operation of the National Garden established under section 
307E of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 1989 (2 U.S.C. 
2146), upon vouchers approved by the Architect of the Capitol or a duly 
authorized designee.

                         Capitol Visitor Center

    For all necessary expenses for the operation of the Capitol Visitor 
Center, $20,557,000.

                       Administrative Provisions

       no bonuses for contractors behind schedule or over budget

    Sec. 1101.  None of the funds made available in this Act for the 
Architect of the Capitol may be used to make incentive or award 
payments to contractors for work on contracts or programs for which the 
contractor is behind schedule or over budget, unless the Architect of 
the Capitol, or agency-employed designee, determines that any such 
deviations are due to unforeseeable events, government-driven scope 
changes, or are not significant within the overall scope of the project 
and/or program.

                                 scrims

    Sec. 1102.  None of the funds made available by this Act may be 
used for scrims containing photographs of building facades during 
restoration or construction projects performed by the Architect of the 
Capitol.

                  acquisition of parcel at fort meade

    Sec. 1103. (a) Acquisition.--The Architect of the Capitol is 
authorized to acquire from the Maryland State Highway Administration, 
at no cost to the United States, a parcel of real property (including 
improvements thereon) consisting of approximately 7.34 acres located 
within the portion of Fort George G. Meade in Anne Arundel County, 
Maryland, that was transferred to the Architect of the Capitol by the 
Secretary of the Army pursuant to section 122 of the Military 
Construction Appropriations Act, 1994 (2 U.S.C. 141 note).
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--The terms and conditions applicable 
under subsections (b) and (d) of section 122 of the Military 
Construction Appropriations Act, 1994 (2 U.S.C. 141 note) to the 
property acquired by the Architect of the Capitol pursuant to such 
section shall apply to the real property acquired by the Architect 
pursuant to the authority of this section.

       oversight plan for funds provided for large scale projects

    Sec. 1104. (a) The Architect of the Capitol may not obligate more 
than 25 percent of the amount made available to the Architect under 
this Act for any project for which $5,000,000 or more is appropriated 
under this Act until--
            (1) the Architect submits to the Comptroller General and 
        the Committee on Appropriations of House of Representatives a 
        plan for the use of the funds provided for the project which 
        includes a description of any changes to the project's schedule 
        (including benchmarks for the timing of the completion of 
        various stages of the project) or the project's costs 
        (including estimates of the total costs of the project or the 
        total life cycle costs of the project), as well as a 
        description of the accounting and other safeguards the 
        Architect will implement to ensure that the project will be 
        carried out in a timely and cost-effective manner; and
            (2) the Comptroller General and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives approves such 
        plan.

                          LIBRARY OF CONGRESS

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Library of Congress not otherwise 
provided for, including development and maintenance of the Library's 
catalogs; custody and custodial care of the Library buildings; special 
clothing; cleaning, laundering and repair of uniforms; preservation of 
motion pictures in the custody of the Library; operation and 
maintenance of the American Folklife Center in the Library; preparation 
and distribution of catalog records and other publications of the 
Library; hire or purchase of one passenger motor vehicle; and expenses 
of the Library of Congress Trust Fund Board not properly chargeable to 
the income of any trust fund held by the Board, $419,357,000, of which 
not more than $6,000,000 shall be derived from collections credited to 
this appropriation during fiscal year 2016, and shall remain available 
until expended, under the Act of June 28, 1902 (chapter 1301; 32 Stat. 
480; 2 U.S.C. 150) and not more than $350,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2016 and shall remain available until 
expended for the development and maintenance of an international legal 
information database and activities related thereto: Provided, That the 
Library of Congress may not obligate or expend any funds derived from 
collections under the Act of June 28, 1902, in excess of the amount 
authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That the total amount available for obligation shall 
be reduced by the amount by which collections are less than $6,350,000: 
Provided further, That of the total amount appropriated, not more than 
$12,000 may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of 
Congress, in connection with official representation and reception 
expenses for the Overseas Field Offices: Provided further, That of the 
total amount appropriated, $8,231,000 shall remain available until 
expended for the digital collections and educational curricula program.

                            Copyright Office

                         salaries and expenses

    For all necessary expenses of the Copyright Office, $57,008,000, of 
which not more than $30,000,000, to remain available until expended, 
shall be derived from collections credited to this appropriation during 
fiscal year 2016 under section 708(d) of title 17, United States Code: 
Provided, That the Copyright Office may not obligate or expend any 
funds derived from collections under such section, in excess of the 
amount authorized for obligation or expenditure in appropriations Acts: 
Provided further, That not more than $5,777,000 shall be derived from 
collections during fiscal year 2016 under sections 111(d)(2), 
119(b)(3), 803(e), 1005, and 1316 of such title: Provided further, That 
the total amount available for obligation shall be reduced by the 
amount by which collections are less than $35,777,000: Provided 
further, That not more than $100,000 of the amount appropriated is 
available for the maintenance of an ``International Copyright 
Institute'' in the Copyright Office of the Library of Congress for the 
purpose of training nationals of developing countries in intellectual 
property laws and policies: Provided further, That not more than $6,500 
may be expended, on the certification of the Librarian of Congress, in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses for 
activities of the International Copyright Institute and for copyright 
delegations, visitors, and seminars: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding any provision of chapter 8 of title 17, United States 
Code, any amounts made available under this heading which are 
attributable to royalty fees and payments received by the Copyright 
Office pursuant to sections 111, 119, and chapter 10 of such title may 
be used for the costs incurred in the administration of the Copyright 
Royalty Judges program, with the exception of the costs of salaries and 
benefits for the Copyright Royalty Judges and staff under section 
802(e).

                     Congressional Research Service

                         salaries and expenses

    For necessary expenses to carry out the provisions of section 203 
of the Legislative Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 166) and to 
revise and extend the Annotated Constitution of the United States of 
America, $106,945,000: Provided, That no part of such amount may be 
used to pay any salary or expense in connection with any publication, 
or preparation of material therefor (except the Digest of Public 
General Bills), to be issued by the Library of Congress unless such 
publication has obtained prior approval of either the Committee on 
House Administration of the House of Representatives or the Committee 
on Rules and Administration of the Senate.

             Books for the Blind and Physically Handicapped

                         salaries and expenses

    For salaries and expenses to carry out the Act of March 3, 1931 
(chapter 400; 46 Stat. 1487; 2 U.S.C. 135a), $50,248,000: Provided, 
That of the total amount appropriated, not more than $650,000 shall be 
available to contract to provide newspapers to blind and physically 
handicapped residents at no cost to the individual.

                        Administrative Provision

               reimbursable and revolving fund activities

    Sec. 1201. (a) In General.--For fiscal year 2016, the obligational 
authority of the Library of Congress for the activities described in 
subsection (b) may not exceed $186,015,000.
    (b) Activities.--The activities referred to in subsection (a) are 
reimbursable and revolving fund activities that are funded from sources 
other than appropriations to the Library in appropriations Acts for the 
legislative branch.

                      GOVERNMENT PUBLISHING OFFICE

                        Congressional Publishing

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For authorized publishing of congressional information and the 
distribution of congressional information in any format; expenses 
necessary for preparing the semimonthly and session index to the 
Congressional Record, as authorized by law (section 902 of title 44, 
United States Code); publishing of Government publications authorized 
by law to be distributed to Members of Congress; and publishing, and 
distribution of Government publications authorized by law to be 
distributed without charge to the recipient, $79,736,000: Provided, 
That this appropriation shall not be available for paper copies of the 
permanent edition of the Congressional Record for individual 
Representatives, Resident Commissioners or Delegates authorized under 
section 906 of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That 
this appropriation shall be available for the payment of obligations 
incurred under the appropriations for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years: Provided further, That notwithstanding the 2-year 
limitation under section 718 of title 44, United States Code, none of 
the funds appropriated or made available under this Act or any other 
Act for printing and binding and related services provided to Congress 
under chapter 7 of title 44, United States Code, may be expended to 
print a document, report, or publication after the 27-month period 
beginning on the date that such document, report, or publication is 
authorized by Congress to be printed, unless Congress reauthorizes such 
printing in accordance with section 718 of title 44, United States 
Code: Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended balances in 
this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding fiscal 
years may be transferred to the Government Publishing Office business 
operations revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of this 
heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on Appropriations of 
the House of Representatives and Senate: Provided further, That 
notwithstanding sections 901, 902, and 906 of title 44, United States 
Code, this appropriation may be used to prepare indexes to the 
Congressional Record on only a monthly and session basis.

     Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents

                         salaries and expenses

                     (including transfer of funds)

    For expenses of the public information programs of the Office of 
Superintendent of Documents necessary to provide for the cataloging and 
indexing of Government publications and their distribution to the 
public, Members of Congress, other Government agencies, and designated 
depository and international exchange libraries as authorized by law, 
$30,500,000: Provided, That amounts of not more than $2,000,000 from 
current year appropriations are authorized for producing and 
disseminating Congressional serial sets and other related publications 
for fiscal years 2014 and 2015 to depository and other designated 
libraries: Provided further, That any unobligated or unexpended 
balances in this account or accounts for similar purposes for preceding 
fiscal years may be transferred to the Government Publishing Office 
business operations revolving fund for carrying out the purposes of 
this heading, subject to the approval of the Committees on 
Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.

    Government Publishing Office Business Operations Revolving Fund

     The Government Publishing Office is hereby authorized to make such 
expenditures, within the limits of funds available and in accordance 
with law, and to make such contracts and commitments without regard to 
fiscal year limitations as provided by section 9104 of title 31, United 
States Code, as may be necessary in carrying out the programs and 
purposes set forth in the budget for the current fiscal year for the 
Government Publishing Office business operations revolving fund: 
Provided, That not more than $7,500 may be expended on the 
certification of the Director of the Government Publishing Office in 
connection with official representation and reception expenses: 
Provided further, That the business operations revolving fund shall be 
available for the hire or purchase of not more than 12 passenger motor 
vehicles: Provided further, That expenditures in connection with travel 
expenses of the advisory councils to the Director of the Government 
Publishing Office shall be deemed necessary to carry out the provisions 
of title 44, United States Code: Provided further, That the business 
operations revolving fund shall be available for temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level V of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5316 of such title: Provided further, That activities 
financed through the business operations revolving fund may provide 
information in any format: Provided further, That the business 
operations revolving fund and the funds provided under the heading 
``Public Information Programs of the Superintendent of Documents'' may 
not be used for contracted security services at GPO's passport facility 
in the District of Columbia.

                    GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE

                         Salaries and Expenses

    For necessary expenses of the Government Accountability Office, 
including not more than $12,500 to be expended on the certification of 
the Comptroller General of the United States in connection with 
official representation and reception expenses; temporary or 
intermittent services under section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, but at rates for individuals not more than the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay for level IV of the Executive Schedule 
under section 5315 of such title; hire of one passenger motor vehicle; 
advance payments in foreign countries in accordance with section 3324 
of title 31, United States Code; benefits comparable to those payable 
under sections 901(5), (6), and (8) of the Foreign Service Act of 1980 
(22 U.S.C. 4081(5), (6), and (8)); and under regulations prescribed by 
the Comptroller General of the United States, rental of living quarters 
in foreign countries, $522,000,000:  Provided, That, in addition, 
$25,450,000 of payments received under sections 782, 791, 3521, and 
9105 of title 31, United States Code, shall be available without fiscal 
year limitation: Provided further, That this appropriation and 
appropriations for administrative expenses of any other department or 
agency which is a member of the National Intergovernmental Audit Forum 
or a Regional Intergovernmental Audit Forum shall be available to 
finance an appropriate share of either Forum's costs as determined by 
the respective Forum, including necessary travel expenses of non-
Federal participants: Provided further, That payments hereunder to the 
Forum may be credited as reimbursements to any appropriation from which 
costs involved are initially financed.

                        Administrative Provision

                       Federal Government Details

    Sec. 1301. (a) Permitting Details From Other Federal Offices.--
Section 731 of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Federal Government Details.--The activities of the Government 
Accountability Office may, in the reasonable discretion of the 
Comptroller General, be carried out by receiving details of personnel 
from other offices of the Federal Government on a reimbursable, 
partially-reimbursable, or nonreimbursable basis.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to fiscal year 2016 and each succeeding fiscal year.

                OPEN WORLD LEADERSHIP CENTER TRUST FUND

    For a payment to the Open World Leadership Center Trust Fund for 
financing activities of the Open World Leadership Center under section 
313 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 (2 U.S.C. 1151), 
$5,700,000, except that any funds made available under this heading to 
support Russian participants shall only be used for those engaging in 
free market development, humanitarian activities, and civic engagement, 
and shall not be used for officials of the central government of 
Russia.

   John C. Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development

    For payment to the John C. Stennis Center for Public Service 
Development Trust Fund established under section 116 of the John C. 
Stennis Center for Public Service Training and Development Act (2 
U.S.C. 1105), $430,000.

                      TITLE II--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                maintenance and care of private vehicles

    Sec. 201.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall be 
used for the maintenance or care of private vehicles, except for 
emergency assistance and cleaning as may be provided under regulations 
relating to parking facilities for the House of Representatives issued 
by the Committee on House Administration and for the Senate issued by 
the Committee on Rules and Administration.

                         fiscal year limitation

    Sec. 202.  No part of the funds appropriated in this Act shall 
remain available for obligation beyond fiscal year 2016 unless 
expressly so provided in this Act.

                 rates of compensation and designation

    Sec. 203.  Whenever in this Act any office or position not 
specifically established by the Legislative Pay Act of 1929 (46 Stat. 
32 et seq.) is appropriated for or the rate of compensation or 
designation of any office or position appropriated for is different 
from that specifically established by such Act, the rate of 
compensation and the designation in this Act shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto: Provided, That the provisions in this Act for the 
various items of official expenses of Members, officers, and committees 
of the Senate and House of Representatives, and clerk hire for Senators 
and Members of the House of Representatives shall be the permanent law 
with respect thereto.

                          consulting services

    Sec. 204.  The expenditure of any appropriation under this Act for 
any consulting service through procurement contract, under section 3109 
of title 5, United States Code, shall be limited to those contracts 
where such expenditures are a matter of public record and available for 
public inspection, except where otherwise provided under existing law, 
or under existing Executive order issued under existing law.

                             costs of lbfmc

    Sec. 205.  Amounts available for administrative expenses of any 
legislative branch entity which participates in the Legislative Branch 
Financial Managers Council (LBFMC) established by charter on March 26, 
1996, shall be available to finance an appropriate share of LBFMC costs 
as determined by the LBFMC, except that the total LBFMC costs to be 
shared among all participating legislative branch entities (in such 
allocations among the entities as the entities may determine) may not 
exceed $2,000.

                         landscape maintenance

    Sec. 206.  For fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter, 
the Architect of the Capitol, in consultation with the District of 
Columbia, is authorized to maintain and improve the landscape features, 
excluding streets, in Square 580 up to the beginning of I-395.

                        limitation on transfers

    Sec. 207.  None of the funds made available in this Act may be 
transferred to any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United 
States Government, except pursuant to a transfer made by, or transfer 
authority provided in, this Act or any other appropriation Act.

                      guided tours of the capitol

    Sec. 208. (a) Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds made available to the Architect of the Capitol in this Act may be 
used to eliminate or restrict guided tours of the United States Capitol 
which are led by employees and interns of offices of Members of 
Congress and other offices of the House of Representatives and Senate
    (b) At the direction of the Capitol Police Board, or at the 
direction of the Architect of the Capitol with the approval of the 
Capitol Police Board, guided tours of the United States Capitol which 
are led by employees and interns described in subsection (a) may be 
suspended temporarily or otherwise subject to restriction for security 
or related reasons to the same extent as guided tours of the United 
States Capitol which are led by the Architect of the Capitol.

  battery recharging stations for privately owned vehicles in parking 
  areas under the jurisdiction of the librarian of congress at no net 
                     cost to the federal government

    Sec. 209. (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``covered 
employee'' means--
            (1) an employee of the Library of Congress; or
            (2) any other individual who is authorized to park in any 
        parking area under the jurisdiction of the Library of Congress 
        on the Library of Congress buildings and grounds.
    (b) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (3), funds 
        appropriated to the Architect of the Capitol under the heading 
        ``Capitol Power Plant'' under the heading ``ARCHITECT OF THE 
        CAPITOL'' in any fiscal year are available to construct, 
        operate, and maintain on a reimbursable basis battery 
        recharging stations in parking areas under the jurisdiction of 
        the Library of Congress on Library of Congress buildings and 
        grounds for use by privately owned vehicles used by covered 
        employees.
            (2) Vendors authorized.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the 
        Architect of the Capitol may use 1 or more vendors on a 
        commission basis.
            (3) Approval of construction.--The Architect of the Capitol 
        may construct or direct the construction of battery recharging 
        stations described under paragraph (1) after--
                    (A) submission of written notice detailing the 
                numbers and locations of the battery recharging 
                stations to the Joint Committee on the Library; and
                    (B) approval by that Committee.
    (c) Fees and Charges.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Architect of 
        the Capitol shall charge fees or charges for electricity 
        provided to covered employees sufficient to cover the costs to 
        the Architect of the Capitol to carry out this section, 
        including costs to any vendors or other costs associated with 
        maintaining the battery recharging stations.
            (2) Approval of fees or charges.--The Architect of the 
        Capitol may establish and adjust fees or charges under 
        paragraph (1) after--
                    (A) submission of written notice detailing the 
                amount of the fee or charge to be established or 
                adjusted to the Joint Committee on the Library; and
                    (B) approval by that Committee.
    (d) Deposit and Availability of Fees, Charges, and Commissions.--
Any fees, charges, or commissions collected by the Architect of the 
Capitol under this section shall be--
            (1) deposited in the Treasury to the credit of the 
        appropriations account described under subsection (b); and
            (2) available for obligation without further appropriation 
        during the fiscal year collected.
    (e) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year, the Architect of the Capitol shall submit a 
        report on the financial administration and cost recovery of 
        activities under this section with respect to that fiscal year 
        to the Joint Committee on the Library and the Committees on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives and Senate.
            (2) Avoiding subsidy.--
                    (A) Determination.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act and every 3 years 
                thereafter, the Architect of the Capitol shall submit a 
                report to the Joint Committee on the Library 
                determining whether covered employees using battery 
                charging stations as authorized by this section are 
                receiving a subsidy from the taxpayers.
                    (B) Modification of rates and fees.--If a 
                determination is made under subparagraph (A) that a 
                subsidy is being received, the Architect of the Capitol 
                shall submit a plan to the Joint Committee on the 
                Library on how to update the program to ensure no 
                subsidy is being received. If the Joint Committee does 
                not act on the plan within 60 days, the Architect of 
                the Capitol shall take appropriate steps to increase 
                rates or fees to ensure reimbursement for the cost of 
                the program consistent with an appropriate schedule for 
                amortization, to be charged to those using the charging 
                stations.
    (f) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
fiscal year 2016 and each fiscal year thereafter.

                       cost of living adjustment

    Sec. 210.  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no 
adjustment shall be made under section 601(a) of the Legislative 
Reorganization Act of 1946 (2 U.S.C. 4501) (relating to cost of living 
adjustments for Members of Congress) during fiscal year 2016.

                       spending reduction account

    Sec. 211.  The amount by which the applicable allocation of new 
budget authority made by the Committee on Appropriations of the House 
of Representatives under section 302(b) of the Congressional Budget Act 
of 1974, excluding Senate items, exceeds the amount of proposed new 
budget authority is $0.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Legislative Branch Appropriations 
Act, 2016''.
                                                  Union Calendar No. 78

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                               H. R. 2250

                          [Report No. 114-110]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 Making appropriations for the Legislative Branch for the fiscal year 
           ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                              May 12, 2015

Committed to the Committee of the Whole House on the State of the Union 
                       and ordered to be printed
