[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 757 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.757

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
To improve the enforcement of sanctions against the Government of North 
                     Korea, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``North Korea 
Sanctions and Policy Enhancement Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings; purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.

       TITLE I--INVESTIGATIONS, PROHIBITED CONDUCT, AND PENALTIES

Sec. 101. Statement of policy.
Sec. 102. Investigations.
Sec. 103. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 104. Designation of persons.
Sec. 105. Forfeiture of property.

  TITLE II--SANCTIONS AGAINST NORTH KOREAN PROLIFERATION, HUMAN RIGHTS 
                     ABUSES, AND ILLICIT ACTIVITIES

Sec. 201. Determinations with respect to North Korea as a jurisdiction 
          of primary money laundering concern.
Sec. 202. Ensuring the consistent enforcement of United Nations Security 
          Council resolutions and financial restrictions on North Korea.
Sec. 203. Proliferation prevention sanctions.
Sec. 204. Procurement sanctions.
Sec. 205. Enhanced inspection authorities.
Sec. 206. Travel sanctions.
Sec. 207. Travel recommendations for United States citizens to North 
          Korea.
Sec. 208. Exemptions, waivers, and removals of designation.
Sec. 209. Report on and imposition of sanctions to address persons 
          responsible for knowingly engaging in significant activities 
          undermining cybersecurity.
Sec. 210. Codification of sanctions with respect to North Korean 
          activities undermining cybersecurity.
Sec. 211. Sense of Congress on trilateral cooperation between the United 
          States, South Korea, and Japan.

                  TITLE III--PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS

Sec. 301. Information technology.
Sec. 302. Strategy to promote North Korean human rights.
Sec. 303. Report on North Korean prison camps.
Sec. 304. Report on and imposition of sanctions with respect to serious 
          human rights abuses or censorship in North Korea.

                      TITLE IV--GENERAL AUTHORITIES

Sec. 401. Suspension of sanctions and other measures.
Sec. 402. Termination of sanctions and other measures.
Sec. 403. Authorization of appropriations.
Sec. 404. Rulemaking.
Sec. 405. Authority to consolidate reports.
Sec. 406. Effective date.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) The Government of North Korea--
            (A) has repeatedly violated its commitments to the 
        complete, verifiable, and irreversible dismantlement of its 
        nuclear weapons programs; and
            (B) has willfully violated multiple United Nations Security 
        Council resolutions calling for North Korea to cease 
        development, testing, and production of weapons of mass 
        destruction.
        (2) Based on its past actions, including the transfer of 
    sensitive nuclear and missile technology to state sponsors of 
    terrorism, North Korea poses a grave risk for the proliferation of 
    nuclear weapons and other weapons of mass destruction.
        (3) The Government of North Korea has been implicated 
    repeatedly in money laundering and other illicit activities, 
    including--
            (A) prohibited arms sales;
            (B) narcotics trafficking;
            (C) the counterfeiting of United States currency;
            (D) significant activities undermining cybersecurity; and
            (E) the counterfeiting of intellectual property of United 
        States persons.
        (4) North Korea has--
            (A) unilaterally withdrawn from the Agreement Concerning a 
        Military Armistice in Korea, signed at Panmunjom July 27, 1953 
        (commonly referred to as the ``Korean War Armistice 
        Agreement''); and
            (B) committed provocations against South Korea--
                (i) by sinking the warship Cheonan and killing 46 of 
            her crew on March 26, 2010;
                (ii) by shelling Yeonpyeong Island and killing 4 South 
            Korean civilians on November 23, 2010;
                (iii) by its involvement in the ``DarkSeoul'' 
            cyberattacks against the financial and communications 
            interests of South Korea on March 20, 2013; and
                (iv) by planting land mines near a guard post in the 
            South Korean portion of the demilitarized zone that maimed 
            2 South Korean soldiers on August 4, 2015.
        (5) North Korea maintains a system of brutal political prison 
    camps that contain as many as 200,000 men, women, and children, who 
    are--
            (A) kept in atrocious living conditions with insufficient 
        food, clothing, and medical care; and
            (B) under constant fear of torture or arbitrary execution.
        (6) North Korea has prioritized weapons programs and the 
    procurement of luxury goods--
            (A) in defiance of United Nations Security Council 
        Resolutions 1695 (2006), 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), 
        and 2094 (2013); and
            (B) in gross disregard of the needs of the people of North 
        Korea.
        (7) Persons, including financial institutions, who engage in 
    transactions with, or provide financial services to, the Government 
    of North Korea and its financial institutions without establishing 
    sufficient financial safeguards against North Korea's use of such 
    transactions to promote proliferation, weapons trafficking, human 
    rights violations, illicit activity, and the purchase of luxury 
    goods--
            (A) aid and abet North Korea's misuse of the international 
        financial system; and
            (B) violate the intent of the United Nations Security 
        Council resolutions referred to in paragraph (6)(A).
        (8) The Government of North Korea has provided technical 
    support and conducted destructive and coercive cyberattacks, 
    including against Sony Pictures Entertainment and other United 
    States persons.
        (9) The conduct of the Government of North Korea poses an 
    imminent threat to--
            (A) the security of the United States and its allies;
            (B) the global economy;
            (C) the safety of members of the United States Armed 
        Forces;
            (D) the integrity of the global financial system;
            (E) the integrity of global nonproliferation programs; and
            (F) the people of North Korea.
        (10) The Government of North Korea has sponsored acts of 
    international terrorism, including--
            (A) attempts to assassinate defectors and human rights 
        activists; and
            (B) the shipment of weapons to terrorists and state 
        sponsors of terrorism.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
        (1) to use nonmilitary means to address the crisis described in 
    subsection (a);
        (2) to provide diplomatic leverage to negotiate necessary 
    changes in the conduct of the Government of North Korea;
        (3) to ease the suffering of the people of North Korea; and
        (4) to reaffirm the purposes set forth in section 4 of the 
    North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 (22 U.S.C. 7802).
SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.
    In this Act:
        (1) Applicable executive order.--The term ``applicable 
    Executive order'' means--
            (A) Executive Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking property of weapons of mass destruction proliferators 
        and their supporters), Executive Order 13466 (50 U.S.C. 1701 
        note; relating to continuing certain restrictions with respect 
        to North Korea and North Korean nationals), Executive Order 
        13551 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property of 
        certain persons with respect to North Korea), Executive Order 
        13570 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to prohibiting certain 
        transactions with respect to North Korea), Executive Order 
        13619 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property of 
        persons threatening the peace, security, or stability of 
        Burma), Executive Order 13687 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        imposing additional sanctions with respect to North Korea), or 
        Executive Order 13694 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking the property of certain persons engaging in 
        significant malicious cyber-enabled activities), to the extent 
        that such Executive order--
                (i) authorizes the imposition of sanctions on persons 
            for conduct with respect to North Korea;
                (ii) prohibits transactions or activities involving the 
            Government of North Korea; or
                (iii) otherwise imposes sanctions with respect to North 
            Korea; and
            (B) any Executive order adopted on or after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, to the extent that such Executive 
        order--
                (i) authorizes the imposition of sanctions on persons 
            for conduct with respect to North Korea;
                (ii) prohibits transactions or activities involving the 
            Government of North Korea; or
                (iii) otherwise imposes sanctions with respect to North 
            Korea.
        (2) Applicable united nations security council resolution.--The 
    term ``applicable United Nations Security Council resolution'' 
    means--
            (A) United Nations Security Council Resolution 1695 (2006), 
        1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), or 2094 (2013); and
            (B) any United Nations Security Council resolution adopted 
        on or after the date of the enactment of this Act that--
                (i) authorizes the imposition of sanctions on persons 
            for conduct with respect to North Korea;
                (ii) prohibits transactions or activities involving the 
            Government of North Korea; or
                (iii) otherwise imposes sanctions with respect to North 
            Korea.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Financial Services, and the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (4) Designated person.--The term ``designated person'' means a 
    person designated under subsection (a) or (b) of section 104 for 
    purposes of applying 1 or more of the sanctions described in title 
    I or II with respect to the person.
        (5) Government of north korea.--The term ``Government of North 
    Korea'' means the Government of North Korea and its agencies, 
    instrumentalities, and controlled entities.
        (6) Humanitarian assistance.--The term ``humanitarian 
    assistance'' means assistance to meet humanitarian needs, including 
    needs for food, medicine, medical supplies, clothing, and shelter.
        (7) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
    community'' has the meaning given such term in section 3(4) of the 
    National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
        (8) Luxury goods.--The term ``luxury goods''--
            (A) has the meaning given such term in section 746.4(b)(1) 
        of title 15, Code of Federal Regulations; and
            (B) includes the items listed in Supplement No. 1 to part 
        746 of such title, and any similar items.
        (9) Monetary instruments.--The term ``monetary instruments'' 
    has the meaning given such term in section 5312(a) of title 31, 
    United States Code.
        (10) North korea.--The term ``North Korea'' means the 
    Democratic People's Republic of Korea.
        (11) North korean financial institution.--The term ``North 
    Korean financial institution'' means any financial institution 
    that--
            (A) is organized under the laws of North Korea or any 
        jurisdiction within North Korea (including a foreign branch of 
        such an institution);
            (B) is located in North Korea, except for a financial 
        institution that is excluded by the President in accordance 
        with section 208(c);
            (C) is owned or controlled by the Government of North 
        Korea, regardless of location; or
            (D) is owned or controlled by a financial institution 
        described in subparagraph (A), (B), or (C), regardless of 
        location.
        (12) Significant activities undermining cybersecurity.--The 
    term ``significant activities undermining cybersecurity'' 
    includes--
            (A) significant efforts to--
                (i) deny access to or degrade, disrupt, or destroy an 
            information and communications technology system or 
            network; or
                (ii) exfiltrate information from such a system or 
            network without authorization;
            (B) significant destructive malware attacks;
            (C) significant denial of service activities; and
            (D) such other significant activities described in 
        regulations promulgated to implement section 104.
        (13) South korea.--The term ``South Korea'' means the Republic 
    of Korea.
        (14) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
    means--
            (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted 
        for permanent residence to the United States; or
            (B) an entity organized under the laws of the United States 
        or of any jurisdiction within the United States, including a 
        foreign branch of such an entity.

       TITLE I--INVESTIGATIONS, PROHIBITED CONDUCT, AND PENALTIES

    SEC. 101. STATEMENT OF POLICY.
    In order to achieve the peaceful disarmament of North Korea, 
Congress finds that it is necessary--
        (1) to encourage all member states of the United Nations to 
    fully and promptly implement United Nations Security Council 
    Resolution 2094 (2013);
        (2) to sanction the persons, including financial institutions, 
    that facilitate proliferation, illicit activities, arms 
    trafficking, cyberterrorism, imports of luxury goods, serious human 
    rights abuses, cash smuggling, and censorship by the Government of 
    North Korea;
        (3) to authorize the President to sanction persons who fail to 
    exercise due diligence to ensure that such financial institutions 
    and member states do not facilitate proliferation, arms 
    trafficking, kleptocracy, or imports of luxury goods by the 
    Government of North Korea;
        (4) to deny the Government of North Korea access to the funds 
    it uses to develop or obtain nuclear weapons, ballistic missiles, 
    cyberwarfare capabilities, and luxury goods instead of providing 
    for the needs of the people of North Korea; and
        (5) to enforce sanctions in a manner that does not 
    significantly hinder or delay the efforts of legitimate United 
    States or foreign humanitarian organizations from providing 
    assistance to meet the needs of civilians facing humanitarian 
    crisis, including access to food, health care, shelter, and clean 
    drinking water, to prevent or alleviate human suffering.
    SEC. 102. INVESTIGATIONS.
    (a) Initiation.--The President shall initiate an investigation into 
the possible designation of a person under section 104(a) upon receipt 
by the President of credible information indicating that such person 
has engaged in conduct described in section 104(a).
    (b) Personnel.--The President may direct the Secretary of State, 
the Secretary of the Treasury, and the heads of other Federal 
departments and agencies as may be necessary to assign sufficient 
experienced and qualified investigators, attorneys, and technical 
personnel--
        (1) to investigate the conduct described in subsections (a) and 
    (b) of section 104; and
        (2) to coordinate and ensure the effective enforcement of this 
    Act.
    SEC. 103. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Presidential Briefings to Congress.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, and periodically 
thereafter, the President shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
congressional committees on efforts to implement this Act.
    (b) Report From Secretary of State.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall 
conduct, coordinate, and submit to Congress a comprehensive report on 
United States policy towards North Korea that--
        (1) is based on a full and complete interagency review of 
    current policies and possible alternatives, including with respect 
    to North Korea's weapons of mass destruction and missile programs, 
    human rights atrocities, and significant activities undermining 
    cybersecurity; and
        (2) includes recommendations for such legislative or 
    administrative action as the Secretary considers appropriate based 
    on the results of the review.
    SEC. 104. DESIGNATION OF PERSONS.
    (a) Mandatory Designations.--Except as provided in section 208, the 
President shall designate under this subsection any person that the 
President determines--
        (1) knowingly, directly or indirectly, imports, exports, or 
    reexports to, into, or from North Korea any goods, services, or 
    technology controlled for export by the United States because of 
    the use of such goods, services, or technology for weapons of mass 
    destruction or delivery systems for such weapons and materially 
    contributes to the use, development, production, possession, or 
    acquisition by any person of a nuclear, radiological, chemical, or 
    biological weapon or any device or system designed in whole or in 
    part to deliver such a weapon;
        (2) knowingly, directly or indirectly, provides training, 
    advice, or other services or assistance, or engages in significant 
    financial transactions, relating to the manufacture, maintenance, 
    or use of any such weapon, device, or system to be imported, 
    exported, or reexported to, into, or from North Korea;
        (3) knowingly, directly or indirectly, imports, exports, or 
    reexports luxury goods to or into North Korea;
        (4) knowingly engages in, is responsible for, or facilitates 
    censorship by the Government of North Korea;
        (5) knowingly engages in, is responsible for, or facilitates 
    serious human rights abuses by the Government of North Korea;
        (6) knowingly, directly or indirectly, engages in money 
    laundering, the counterfeiting of goods or currency, bulk cash 
    smuggling, or narcotics trafficking that supports the Government of 
    North Korea or any senior official or person acting for or on 
    behalf of that Government;
        (7) knowingly engages in significant activities undermining 
    cybersecurity through the use of computer networks or systems 
    against foreign persons, governments, or other entities on behalf 
    of the Government of North Korea;
        (8) knowingly, directly or indirectly, sells, supplies, or 
    transfers to or from the Government of North Korea or any person 
    acting for or on behalf of that Government, a significant amount of 
    precious metal, graphite, raw or semi-finished metals or aluminum, 
    steel, coal, or software, for use by or in industrial processes 
    directly related to weapons of mass destruction and delivery 
    systems for such weapons, other proliferation activities, the 
    Korean Workers' Party, armed forces, internal security, or 
    intelligence activities, or the operation and maintenance of 
    political prison camps or forced labor camps, including outside of 
    North Korea;
        (9) knowingly, directly or indirectly, imports, exports, or 
    reexports to, into, or from North Korea any arms or related 
    materiel; or
        (10) knowingly attempts to engage in any of the conduct 
    described in paragraphs (1) through (9).
    (b) Additional Discretionary Designations.--
        (1) Prohibited conduct described.--Except as provided in 
    section 208, the President may designate under this subsection any 
    person that the President determines--
            (A) knowingly engages in, contributes to, assists, 
        sponsors, or provides financial, material or technological 
        support for, or goods and services in support of, any person 
        designated pursuant to an applicable United Nations Security 
        Council resolution;
            (B) knowingly contributed to--
                (i) the bribery of an official of the Government of 
            North Korea or any person acting for on behalf of that 
            official;
                (ii) the misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of 
            public funds by, or for the benefit of, an official of the 
            Government of North Korea or any person acting for or on 
            behalf of that official; or
                (iii) the use of any proceeds of any activity described 
            in clause (i) or (ii); or
            (C) knowingly and materially assisted, sponsored, or 
        provided significant financial, material, or technological 
        support for, or goods or services to or in support of, the 
        activities described in subparagraph (A) or (B).
        (2) Effect of designation.--With respect to any person 
    designated under this subsection, the President may--
            (A) apply the sanctions described in section 204, 205(c), 
        or 206 to the person to the same extent and in the same manner 
        as if the person were designated under subsection (a);
            (B) apply any applicable special measures described in 
        section 5318A of title 31, United States Code;
            (C) prohibit any transactions in foreign exchange--
                (i) that are subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
            States; and
                (ii) in which such person has any interest; and
            (D) prohibit any transfers of credit or payments between 
        financial institutions or by, through, or to any financial 
        institution, to the extent that such transfers or payments--
                (i) are subject to the jurisdiction of the United 
            States; and
                (ii) involve any interest of such person.
    (c) Asset Blocking.--The President shall exercise all of the powers 
granted to the President under the International Emergency Economic 
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to block 
and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in property of 
a designated person, the Government of North Korea, or the Workers' 
Party of Korea, if such property and interests in property are in the 
United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the 
possession or control of a United States person.
    (d) Application to Subsidiaries and Agents.--The designation of a 
person under subsection (a) or (b) and the blocking of property and 
interests in property under subsection (c) shall apply with respect to 
a person who is determined to be owned or controlled by, or to have 
acted or purported to have acted for or on behalf of, directly or 
indirectly, any person whose property and interests in property are 
blocked pursuant to this section.
    (e) Transaction Licensing.--The President shall deny or revoke any 
license for any transaction that the President determines to lack 
sufficient financial controls to ensure that such transaction will not 
facilitate any activity described in subsection (a) or (b).
    (f) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections (b) and 
(c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
(50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to any person who violates, attempts to 
violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of any prohibition 
of this section, or an order or regulation prescribed under this 
section, to the same extent that such penalties apply to a person that 
commits an unlawful act described in section 206(a) of such Act (50 
U.S.C. 1705(a)).
    SEC. 105. FORFEITURE OF PROPERTY.
    (a) Amendment to Property Subject to Forfeiture.--Section 981(a)(1) 
of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
        ``(I) Any property, real or personal, that is involved in a 
    violation or attempted violation, or which constitutes or is 
    derived from proceeds traceable to a prohibition imposed pursuant 
    to section 104(a) of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
    Enhancement Act of 2016.''.
    (b) Amendment to Definition of Civil Forfeiture Statute.--Section 
983(i)(2)(D) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(D) the Trading with the Enemy Act (50 U.S.C. 4301 et 
        seq.), the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), or the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement 
        Act of 2016; or''.
    (c) Amendment to Definition of Specified Unlawful Activity.--
Section 1956(c)(7)(D) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``or section 92 of'' and inserting ``section 92 
    of''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following: ``, or section 104(a) 
    of the North Korea Sanctions Enforcement Act of 2016 (relating to 
    prohibited activities with respect to North Korea);''.

 TITLE II--SANCTIONS AGAINST NORTH KOREAN PROLIFERATION, HUMAN RIGHTS 
                     ABUSES, AND ILLICIT ACTIVITIES

    SEC. 201. DETERMINATIONS WITH RESPECT TO NORTH KOREA AS A 
      JURISDICTION OF PRIMARY MONEY LAUNDERING CONCERN.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The Under Secretary of the Treasury for Terrorism and 
    Financial Intelligence, who is responsible for safeguarding the 
    financial system against illicit use, money laundering, terrorist 
    financing, and the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, 
    and has repeatedly expressed concern about North Korea's misuse of 
    the international financial system--
            (A) in 2006--
                (i) stated, ``Given [North Korea's] counterfeiting of 
            U.S. currency, narcotics trafficking and use of accounts 
            world-wide to conduct proliferation-related transactions, 
            the line between illicit and licit North Korean money is 
            nearly invisible.''; and
                (ii) urged financial institutions worldwide to ``think 
            carefully about the risks of doing any North Korea-related 
            business'';
            (B) in 2011, stated that North Korea--
                (i) ``remains intent on engaging in proliferation, 
            selling arms as well as bringing in material''; and
                (ii) was ``aggressively pursuing the effort to 
            establish front companies.''; and
            (C) in 2013, stated--
                (i) in reference to North Korea's distribution of high-
            quality counterfeit United States currency, that ``North 
            Korea is continuing to try to pass a supernote into the 
            international financial system''; and
                (ii) the Department of the Treasury would soon 
            introduce new currency with improved security features to 
            protect against counterfeiting by the Government of North 
            Korea.
        (2) The Financial Action Task Force, an intergovernmental body 
    whose purpose is to develop and promote national and international 
    policies to combat money laundering and terrorist financing, has 
    repeatedly--
            (A) expressed concern at deficiencies in North Korea's 
        regimes to combat money laundering and terrorist financing;
            (B) urged North Korea to adopt a plan of action to address 
        significant deficiencies in those regimes and the serious 
        threat those deficiencies pose to the integrity of the 
        international financial system;
            (C) urged all jurisdictions to apply countermeasures to 
        protect the international financial system from ongoing and 
        substantial money laundering and terrorist financing risks 
        emanating from North Korea;
            (D) urged all jurisdictions to advise their financial 
        institutions to give special attention to business 
        relationships and transactions with North Korea, including 
        North Korean companies and financial institutions; and
            (E) called on all jurisdictions--
                (i) to protect against correspondent relationships 
            being used to bypass or evade countermeasures and risk 
            mitigation practices; and
                (ii) to take into account money laundering and 
            terrorist financing risks when considering requests by 
            North Korean financial institutions to open branches and 
            subsidiaries in their respective jurisdictions.
        (3) On March 7, 2013, the United Nations Security Council 
    unanimously adopted Resolution 2094, which--
            (A) welcomed the Financial Action Task Force's--
                (i) recommendation on financial sanctions related to 
            proliferation; and
                (ii) guidance on the implementation of such sanctions;
            (B) decided that United Nations member states should apply 
        enhanced monitoring and other legal measures to prevent the 
        provision of financial services or the transfer of property 
        that could contribute to activities prohibited by applicable 
        United Nations Security Council resolutions; and
            (C) called upon United Nations member states to prohibit 
        North Korean financial institutions from establishing or 
        maintaining correspondent relationships with financial 
        institutions in their respective jurisdictions to prevent the 
        provision of financial services if such member states have 
        information that provides reasonable grounds to believe that 
        such activities could contribute to--
                (i) activities prohibited by an applicable United 
            Nations Security Council resolution; or
                (ii) the evasion of such prohibitions.
    (b) Sense of Congress Regarding the Designation of North Korea as a 
Jurisdiction of Primary Money Laundering Concern.--Congress--
        (1) acknowledges the efforts of the United Nations Security 
    Council to impose limitations on, and to require the enhanced 
    monitoring of, transactions involving North Korean financial 
    institutions that could contribute to sanctioned activities;
        (2) urges the President, in the strongest terms--
            (A) to immediately designate North Korea as a jurisdiction 
        of primary money laundering concern; and
            (B) to adopt stringent special measures to safeguard the 
        financial system against the risks posed by North Korea's 
        willful evasion of sanctions and its illicit activities; and
        (3) urges the President to seek the prompt implementation by 
    other countries of enhanced monitoring and due diligence to prevent 
    North Korea's misuse of the international financial system, 
    including by sharing information about activities, transactions, 
    and property that could contribute to--
            (A) activities sanctioned by applicable United Nations 
        Security Council resolutions; or
            (B) the evasion of such sanctions.
    (c) Determinations Regarding North Korea.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
    consultation with the Secretary of State and the Attorney General, 
    and in accordance with section 5318A of title 31, United States 
    Code, shall determine whether reasonable grounds exist for 
    concluding that North Korea is a jurisdiction of primary money 
    laundering concern.
        (2) Enhanced due diligence and reporting requirements.--If the 
    Secretary of the Treasury determines under paragraph (1) that 
    reasonable grounds exist for concluding that North Korea is a 
    jurisdiction of primary money laundering concern, the Secretary, in 
    consultation with the Federal functional regulators (as defined in 
    section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (15 U.S.C. 6809)), shall 
    impose 1 or more of the special measures described in section 
    5318A(b) of title 31, United States Code, with respect to the 
    jurisdiction of North Korea.
        (3) Report required.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which the Secretary of the Treasury makes a determination under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report that contains the reasons for 
        such determination.
            (B) Form.--The report submitted under subparagraph (A) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex.
    SEC. 202. ENSURING THE CONSISTENT ENFORCEMENT OF UNITED NATIONS 
      SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTIONS AND FINANCIAL RESTRICTIONS ON NORTH 
      KOREA.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) All member states of the United Nations are obligated to 
    implement and enforce applicable United Nations Security Council 
    resolutions fully and promptly, including by blocking the property 
    of, and ensuring that any property is prevented from being made 
    available to, persons designated for the blocking of property by 
    the Security Council under applicable United Nations Security 
    Council resolutions.
        (2) As of May 2015, 158 of the 193 member states of the United 
    Nations had not submitted reports on measures taken to implement 
    North Korea-specific United Nations Security Council resolutions 
    1718, 1874, and 2094.
        (3) A recent report by the Government Accountability Office 
    (GAO-15-485)--
            (A) finds that officials of the United States and 
        representatives of the United Nations Panel of Experts 
        established pursuant to United Nations Security Council 
        Resolution 1874 (2009), which monitors and facilitates 
        implementation of United Nations sanctions on North Korea, 
        ``agree that the lack of detailed reports from all member 
        states is an impediment to the UN's effective implementation of 
        its sanctions''; and
            (B) notes that ``many member states lack the technical 
        capacity to enforce sanctions and prepare reports'' on the 
        implementation of United Nations sanctions on North Korea.
        (4) All member states share a common interest in protecting the 
    international financial system from the risks of money laundering 
    and illicit transactions emanating from North Korea.
        (5) The United States dollar and the euro are the world's 
    principal reserve currencies, and the United States and the 
    European Union are primarily responsible for the protection of the 
    international financial system from the risks described in 
    paragraph (4).
        (6) The cooperation of the People's Republic of China, as North 
    Korea's principal trading partner, is essential to--
            (A) the enforcement of applicable United Nations Security 
        Council resolutions; and
            (B) the protection of the international financial system.
        (7) The report of the Panel of Experts expressed concern about 
    the ability of banks to detect and prevent illicit transfers 
    involving North Korea if such banks are located in member states 
    with less effective regulators or member states that are unable to 
    afford effective compliance.
        (8) North Korea has historically exploited inconsistencies 
    between jurisdictions in the interpretation and enforcement of 
    financial regulations and applicable United Nations Security 
    Council resolutions to circumvent sanctions and launder the 
    proceeds of illicit activities.
        (9) Amroggang Development Bank, Bank of East Land, and Tanchon 
    Commercial Bank have been designated by the Secretary of the 
    Treasury, the United Nations Security Council, and the European 
    Union as having materially contributed to the proliferation of 
    weapons of mass destruction.
        (10) Korea Daesong Bank and Korea Kwangson Banking Corporation 
    have been designated by the Secretary of the Treasury and the 
    European Union as having materially contributed to the 
    proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
        (11) The Foreign Trade Bank of North Korea has been designated 
    by the Secretary of the Treasury for facilitating transactions on 
    behalf of persons linked to its proliferation network and for 
    serving as ``a key financial node''.
        (12) Daedong Credit Bank has been designated by the Secretary 
    of the Treasury for activities prohibited by applicable United 
    Nations Security Council resolutions, including the use of 
    deceptive financial practices to facilitate transactions on behalf 
    of persons linked to North Korea's proliferation network.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
President should intensify diplomatic efforts in appropriate 
international fora, such as the United Nations, and bilaterally, to 
develop and implement a coordinated, consistent, multilateral strategy 
for protecting the global financial system against risks emanating from 
North Korea, including--
        (1) the cessation of any financial services the continuation of 
    which is inconsistent with applicable United Nations Security 
    Council resolutions;
        (2) the cessation of any financial services to persons, 
    including financial institutions, that present unacceptable risks 
    of facilitating money laundering and illicit activity by the 
    Government of North Korea;
        (3) the blocking by all member states, in accordance with the 
    legal process of the state in which the property is held, of any 
    property required to be blocked under applicable United Nations 
    Security Council resolutions;
        (4) the blocking of any property derived from illicit activity, 
    or from the misappropriation, theft, or embezzlement of public 
    funds by, or for the benefit of, officials of the Government of 
    North Korea;
        (5) the blocking of any property involved in significant 
    activities undermining cybersecurity by the Government of North 
    Korea, directly or indirectly, against United States persons, or 
    the theft of intellectual property by the Government of North 
    Korea, directly or indirectly from United States persons; and
        (6) the blocking of any property of persons directly or 
    indirectly involved in censorship or human rights abuses by the 
    Government of North Korea.
    (c) Strategy to Improve International Implementation and 
Enforcement of United Nations North Korea-specific Sanctions.--The 
President shall direct the Secretary of State, in coordination with 
other Federal departments and agencies, as appropriate, to develop a 
strategy to improve international implementation and enforcement of 
United Nations North Korea-specific sanctions. The strategy should 
include elements--
        (1) to increase the number of countries submitting reports to 
    the United Nations Panel of Experts established pursuant to United 
    Nations Security Council Resolution 1874 (2009), including 
    developing a list of targeted countries where effective 
    implementation and enforcement of United Nations sanctions would 
    reduce the threat from North Korea;
        (2) to encourage member states of the United Nations to 
    cooperate and share information with the panel in order to help 
    facilitate investigations;
        (3) to expand cooperation with the Panel of Experts;
        (4) to provide technical assistance to member states to 
    implement United Nations sanctions, including developing the 
    capacity to enforce sanctions through improved export control 
    regulations, border security, and customs systems;
        (5) to harness existing United States Government initiatives 
    and assistance programs, as appropriate, to improve sanctions 
    implementation and enforcement; and
        (6) to increase outreach to the people of North Korea, and to 
    support the engagement of independent, non-governmental 
    journalistic, humanitarian, and other institutions in North Korea.
    (d) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of State 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
describes the actions undertaken to implement the strategy required by 
subsection (c).
    SEC. 203. PROLIFERATION PREVENTION SANCTIONS.
    (a) Export of Certain Goods or Technology.--A validated license 
shall be required for the export to North Korea of any goods or 
technology otherwise covered under section 6(j) of the Export 
Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605(j)). No defense exports may 
be approved for the Government of North Korea.
    (b) Transactions in Lethal Military Equipment.--
        (1) In general.--The President shall withhold assistance under 
    the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151 et seq.) to the 
    government of any country that provides lethal military equipment 
    to the Government of North Korea.
        (2) Applicability.--The prohibition under paragraph (1) with 
    respect to a government shall terminate on the date that is 1 year 
    after the date on which the prohibition under paragraph (1) is 
    applied to that government.
    (c) Waiver.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the 
Secretary of State may waive the prohibitions under this section with 
respect to a country if the Secretary--
        (1) determines that such waiver is in the national interest of 
    the United States; and
        (2) submits a written report to the appropriate congressional 
    committees that describes--
            (A) the steps that the relevant agencies are taking to 
        curtail the trade described in subsection (b)(1); and
            (B) why such waiver is in the national interest of the 
        United States.
    (d) Exception.--The prohibitions under this section shall not apply 
to the provision of assistance for human rights, democracy, rule of 
law, or emergency humanitarian purposes.
    SEC. 204. PROCUREMENT SANCTIONS.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided in this section, the head of an 
executive agency may not procure, or enter into any contract for the 
procurement of, any goods or services from any person designated under 
section 104(a).
    (b) Federal Acquisition Regulation.--
        (1) In general.--The Federal Acquisition Regulation issued 
    pursuant to section 1303(a)(1) of title 41, United States Code, 
    shall be revised to require that each person that is a prospective 
    contractor submit a certification that such person does not engage 
    in any activity described in section 104(a).
        (2) Applicability.--The revision required under paragraph (1) 
    shall apply with respect to contracts for which solicitations are 
    issued on or after the date that is 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
    (c) Remedies.--
        (1) Inclusion on list.--The Administrator of General Services 
    shall include, on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal 
    Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs maintained by the 
    Administrator under part 9 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
    each person that is debarred, suspended, or proposed for debarment 
    or suspension by the head of an executive agency on the basis of a 
    determination of a false certification under subsection (b).
        (2) Contract termination; suspension.--If the head of an 
    executive agency determines that a person has submitted a false 
    certification under subsection (b) after the date on which the 
    Federal Acquisition Regulation is revised to implement the 
    requirements of this section, the head of such executive agency 
    shall--
            (A) terminate any contract with such person; and
            (B) debar or suspend such person from eligibility for 
        Federal contracts for a period of not longer than 2 years.
        (3) Applicable procedures.--Any debarment or suspension under 
    paragraph (2)(B) shall be subject to the procedures that apply to 
    debarment and suspension under subpart 9.4 of the Federal 
    Acquisition Regulation.
    (d) Clarification Regarding Certain Products.--The remedies 
specified in subsection (c) shall not apply with respect to the 
procurement of any eligible product (as defined in section 308(4) of 
the Trade Agreements Act of 1979 (19 U.S.C. 2518(4)) of any foreign 
country or instrumentality designated under section 301(b) of such Act 
(19 U.S.C. 2511(b)).
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this subsection may be 
construed to limit the use of other remedies available to the head of 
an executive agency or any other official of the Federal Government on 
the basis of a determination of a false certification under subsection 
(b).
    (f) Executive Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``executive agency'' has the meaning given such term in section 133 of 
title 41, United States Code.
    SEC. 205. ENHANCED INSPECTION AUTHORITIES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
identifies foreign ports and airports at which inspections of ships, 
aircraft, and conveyances originating in North Korea, carrying North 
Korean property, or operated by the Government of North Korea are not 
sufficient to effectively prevent the facilitation of any of the 
activities described in section 104(a).
    (b) Enhanced Customs Inspection Requirements.--The Secretary of 
Homeland Security may require enhanced inspections of any goods 
entering the United States that have been transported through a port or 
airport identified by the President under subsection (a).
    (c) Seizure and Forfeiture.--A vessel, aircraft, or conveyance used 
to facilitate any of the activities described in section 104(a) under 
the jurisdiction of the United States may be seized and forfeited 
under--
        (1) chapter 46 of title 18, United States Code; or
        (2) title V of the Tariff Act of 1930 (19 U.S.C. 1501 et seq.).
    SEC. 206. TRAVEL SANCTIONS.
    The Secretary of State may deny a visa to, and the Secretary of 
Homeland Security may deny entry into the United States of, any alien 
who is--
        (1) a designated person;
        (2) a corporate officer of a designated person; or
        (3) a principal shareholder with a controlling interest in a 
    designated person.
    SEC. 207. TRAVEL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR UNITED STATES CITIZENS TO 
      NORTH KOREA.
    The Secretary of State shall expand the scope and frequency of 
issuance of travel warnings for all United States citizens to North 
Korea. The expanded travel warnings, which should be issued or updated 
not less frequently than every 90 days, should include--
        (1) publicly released or credible open source information 
    regarding the detention of United States citizens by North Korean 
    authorities, including available information on circumstances of 
    arrest and detention, duration, legal proceedings, and conditions 
    under which a United States citizen has been, or continues to be, 
    detained by North Korean authorities, including present-day cases 
    and cases occurring during the 10-year period ending on the date of 
    the enactment of this Act;
        (2) publicly released or credible open source information on 
    the past and present detention and abduction or alleged abduction 
    of citizens of the United States, South Korea, or Japan by North 
    Korean authorities;
        (3) unclassified information about the nature of the North 
    Korean regime, as described in congressionally mandated reports and 
    annual reports issued by the Department of State and the United 
    Nations, including information about North Korea's weapons of mass 
    destruction programs, illicit activities, international sanctions 
    violations, and human rights situation; and
        (4) any other information that the Secretary deems useful to 
    provide United States citizens with a comprehensive picture of the 
    nature of the North Korean regime.
    SEC. 208. EXEMPTIONS, WAIVERS, AND REMOVALS OF DESIGNATION.
    (a) Exemptions.--The following activities shall be exempt from 
sanctions under sections 104, 206, 209, and 304:
        (1) Activities subject to the reporting requirements under 
    title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3091 et 
    seq.), or to any authorized intelligence activities of the United 
    States.
        (2) Any transaction necessary to comply with United States 
    obligations under the Agreement between the United Nations and the 
    United States of America regarding the Headquarters of the United 
    Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into 
    force November 21, 1947, or under the Convention on Consular 
    Relations, done at Vienna April 24, 1963, and entered into force 
    March 19, 1967, or under other international agreements.
        (3) Any activities incidental to the POW/MIA accounting mission 
    in North Korea, including activities by the Defense POW/MIA 
    Accounting Agency and other governmental or nongovernmental 
    organizations tasked with identifying or recovering the remains of 
    members of the United States Armed Forces in North Korea.
    (b) Humanitarian Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The President may waive, for renewable periods 
    of between 30 days and 1 year, the application of the sanctions 
    authorized under section 104, 204, 205, 206, 209(b), or 304(b) if 
    the President submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    written determination that the waiver is necessary for humanitarian 
    assistance or to carry out the humanitarian purposes set forth 
    section 4 of the North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 (22 U.S.C. 
    7802).
        (2) Content of written determination.--A written determination 
    submitted under paragraph (1) with respect to a waiver shall 
    include a description of all notification and accountability 
    controls that have been employed in order to ensure that the 
    activities covered by the waiver are humanitarian assistance or are 
    carried out for the purposes set forth in section 4 of the North 
    Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 (22 U.S.C. 7802) and do not entail 
    any activities in North Korea or dealings with the Government of 
    North Korea not reasonably related to humanitarian assistance or 
    such purposes.
        (3) Clarification of permitted activities under waiver.--An 
    internationally recognized humanitarian organization shall not be 
    subject to sanctions under section 104, 204, 205, 206, 209(b), or 
    304(b) for--
            (A) engaging in a financial transaction relating to 
        humanitarian assistance or for humanitarian purposes pursuant 
        to a waiver issued under paragraph (1);
            (B) transporting goods or services that are necessary to 
        carry out operations relating to humanitarian assistance or 
        humanitarian purposes pursuant to such a waiver; or
            (C) having merely incidental contact, in the course of 
        providing humanitarian assistance or aid for humanitarian 
        purposes pursuant to such a waiver, with individuals who are 
        under the control of a foreign person subject to sanctions 
        under this Act.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive, on a case-by-case basis, for 
renewable periods of between 30 days and 1 year, the application of the 
sanctions authorized under section 104, 201(c)(2), 204, 205, 206, 
209(b), or 304(b) if the President submits to the appropriate 
congressional committees a written determination that the waiver--
        (1) is important to the national security interests of the 
    United States; or
        (2) will further the enforcement of this Act or is for an 
    important law enforcement purpose.
    (d) Financial Services for Humanitarian and Consular Activities.--
The President may promulgate such regulations, rules, and policies as 
may be necessary to facilitate the provision of financial services by a 
foreign financial institution that is not a North Korean financial 
institution in support of activities conducted pursuant to an exemption 
or waiver under this section.
    SEC. 209. REPORT ON AND IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS TO ADDRESS PERSONS 
      RESPONSIBLE FOR KNOWINGLY ENGAGING IN SIGNIFICANT ACTIVITIES 
      UNDERMINING CYBERSECURITY.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report that describes significant 
    activities undermining cybersecurity aimed against the United 
    States Government or any United States person and conducted by the 
    Government of North Korea, or a person owned or controlled, 
    directly or indirectly, by the Government of North Korea or any 
    person acting for or on behalf of that Government.
        (2) Information.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) the identity and nationality of persons that have 
        knowingly engaged in, directed, or provided material support to 
        conduct significant activities undermining cybersecurity 
        described in paragraph (1);
            (B) a description of the conduct engaged in by each person 
        identified;
            (C) an assessment of the extent to which a foreign 
        government has provided material support to the Government of 
        North Korea or any person acting for or on behalf of that 
        Government to conduct significant activities undermining 
        cybersecurity; and
            (D) a United States strategy to counter North Korea's 
        efforts to conduct significant activities undermining 
        cybersecurity against the United States, that includes efforts 
        to engage foreign governments to halt the capability of the 
        Government of North Korea and persons acting for or on behalf 
        of that Government to conduct significant activities 
        undermining cybersecurity.
        (3) Submission and form.--
            (A) Submission.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted not later than 90 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter.
            (B) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
    (b) Designation of Persons.--The President shall designate under 
section 104(a) any person identified in the report required under 
subsection (a)(1) that knowingly engages in significant activities 
undermining cybersecurity through the use of computer networks or 
systems against foreign persons, governments, or other entities on 
behalf of the Government of North Korea.
    SEC. 210. CODIFICATION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO NORTH KOREAN 
      ACTIVITIES UNDERMINING CYBERSECURITY.
    (a) In General.--United States sanctions with respect to activities 
of the Government of North Korea, persons acting for or on behalf of 
that Government, or persons located in North Korea that undermine 
cybersecurity provided for in Executive Order 13687 (50 U.S.C. 1701 
note; relating to imposing additional sanctions with respect to North 
Korea) or Executive Order 13694 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
blocking the property of certain persons engaging in significant 
malicious cyber-enabled activities), as such Executive Orders are in 
effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall 
remain in effect until the date that is 30 days after the date on which 
the President submits to Congress a certification that the Government 
of North Korea, persons acting for or on behalf of that Government, and 
persons owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by that Government 
or persons acting for or on behalf of that Government, are no longer 
engaged in the illicit activities described in such Executive Orders, 
including actions in violation of United Nations Security Council 
Resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009), 2087 (2013), and 2094 (2013).
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    SEC. 211. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TRILATERAL COOPERATION BETWEEN THE 
      UNITED STATES, SOUTH KOREA, AND JAPAN.
    (a) In General.--It is the sense of Congress that the President--
        (1) should seek to strengthen high-level trilateral mechanisms 
    for discussion and coordination of policy toward North Korea 
    between the Government of the United States, the Government of 
    South Korea, and the Government of Japan;
        (2) should ensure that the mechanisms specifically address 
    North Korea's nuclear, ballistic, and conventional weapons 
    programs, its human rights record, and cybersecurity threats posed 
    by North Korea;
        (3) should ensure that representatives of the United States, 
    South Korea, and Japan meet on a regular basis and include 
    representatives of the United States Department of State, the 
    United States Department of Defense, the United States intelligence 
    community, and representatives of counterpart agencies in South 
    Korea and Japan; and
        (4) should continue to brief the relevant congressional 
    committees regularly on the status of such discussions.
    (b) Relevant Committees.--The relevant committees referred to in 
subsection (a)(4) shall include--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed 
    Services, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; 
    and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed 
    Services, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    House of Representatives.

                  TITLE III--PROMOTION OF HUMAN RIGHTS

    SEC. 301. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY.
    Section 104 of the North Korean Human Rights Act of 2004 (22 U.S.C. 
7814) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Information Technology Study.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of the North Korea Sanctions and Policy 
Enhancement Act of 2015, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a classified report that sets forth a detailed 
plan for making unrestricted, unmonitored, and inexpensive electronic 
mass communications available to the people of North Korea.''.
    SEC. 302. STRATEGY TO PROMOTE NORTH KOREAN HUMAN RIGHTS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with 
other appropriate Federal departments and agencies, shall submit to the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that details a 
United States strategy to promote initiatives to enhance international 
awareness of and to address the human rights situation in North Korea.
    (b) Information.--The report required under subsection (a) should 
include--
        (1) a list of countries that forcibly repatriate refugees from 
    North Korea; and
        (2) a list of countries where North Korean laborers work, 
    including countries the governments of which have formal 
    arrangements with the Government of North Korea or any person 
    acting for or on behalf of that Government to employ North Korean 
    workers.
    (c) Strategy.--The report required under subsection (a) should 
include--
        (1) a plan to enhance bilateral and multilateral outreach, 
    including sustained engagement with the governments of partners and 
    allies with overseas posts to routinely demarche or brief those 
    governments on North Korea human rights issues, including forced 
    labor, trafficking, and repatriation of citizens of North Korea;
        (2) public affairs and public diplomacy campaigns, including 
    options to work with news organizations and media outlets to 
    publish opinion pieces and secure public speaking opportunities for 
    United States Government officials on issues related to the human 
    rights situation in North Korea, including forced labor, 
    trafficking, and repatriation of citizens of North Korea; and
        (3) opportunities to coordinate and collaborate with 
    appropriate nongovernmental organizations and private sector 
    entities to raise awareness and provide assistance to North Korean 
    defectors throughout the world.
    SEC. 303. REPORT ON NORTH KOREAN PRISON CAMPS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report that describes, with 
respect to each political prison camp in North Korea, to the extent 
information is available--
        (1) the camp's estimated prisoner population;
        (2) the camp's geographical coordinates;
        (3) the reasons for the confinement of the prisoners;
        (4) the camp's primary industries and products, and the end 
    users of any goods produced in the camp;
        (5) the individuals and agencies responsible for conditions in 
    the camp;
        (6) the conditions under which prisoners are confined, with 
    respect to the adequacy of food, shelter, medical care, working 
    conditions, and reports of ill-treatment of prisoners; and
        (7) imagery, to include satellite imagery of the camp, in a 
    format that, if published, would not compromise the sources and 
    methods used by the United States intelligence community to capture 
    geospatial imagery.
    (b) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) may be included 
in the first human rights report required to be submitted to Congress 
after the date of the enactment of this Act under sections 116(d) and 
502B(b) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d) and 
2304(b)).
    SEC. 304. REPORT ON AND IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO 
      SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES OR CENSORSHIP IN NORTH KOREA.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of State shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report that--
            (A) identifies each person the Secretary determines to be 
        responsible for serious human rights abuses or censorship in 
        North Korea and describes the conduct of that person; and
            (B) describes serious human rights abuses or censorship 
        undertaken by the Government of North Korea or any person 
        acting for or on behalf of that Government in the most recent 
        year ending before the submission of the report.
        (2) Consideration.--In preparing the report required under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary of State shall--
            (A) give due consideration to the findings of the United 
        Nations Commission of Inquiry on Human Rights in North Korea; 
        and
            (B) make specific findings with respect to the 
        responsibility of Kim Jong Un, and of each individual who is a 
        member of the National Defense Commission of North Korea or the 
        Organization and Guidance Department of the Workers' Party of 
        Korea, for serious human rights abuses and censorship.
        (3) Submission and form.--
            (A) Submission.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter for a 
        period not to exceed 3 years, and shall be included in each 
        human rights report required under sections 116(d) and 502B(b) 
        of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2151n(d) and 
        2304(b)).
            (B) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
            (C) Public availability.--The Secretary of State shall 
        publish the unclassified part of the report required under 
        paragraph (1) on the website of the Department of State.
    (b) Designation of Persons.--The President shall designate under 
section 104(a) any person listed in the report required under 
subsection (a)(1) that--
        (1) knowingly engages in, is responsible for, or facilitates 
    censorship by the Government of North Korea; or
        (2) knowingly engages in, is responsible for, or facilitates 
    serious human rights abuses by the Government of North Korea.
    (c) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
President should--
        (1) seek the prompt adoption by the United Nations Security 
    Council of a resolution calling for the blocking of the assets of 
    all persons responsible for severe human rights abuses or 
    censorship in North Korea; and
        (2) fully cooperate with the prosecution of any individual 
    listed in the report required under subsection (a)(1) before any 
    international tribunal that may be established to prosecute persons 
    responsible for severe human rights abuses or censorship in North 
    Korea.

                     TITLE IV--GENERAL AUTHORITIES

    SEC. 401. SUSPENSION OF SANCTIONS AND OTHER MEASURES.
    (a) In General.--Any sanction or other measure required under title 
I, II, or III (or any amendment made by such titles) may be suspended 
for up to 1 year upon certification by the President to the appropriate 
congressional committees that the Government of North Korea has made 
progress toward--
        (1) verifiably ceasing its counterfeiting of United States 
    currency, including the surrender or destruction of specialized 
    materials and equipment used or particularly suitable for 
    counterfeiting;
        (2) taking steps toward financial transparency to comply with 
    generally accepted protocols to cease and prevent the laundering of 
    monetary instruments;
        (3) taking steps toward verification of its compliance with 
    applicable United Nations Security Council resolutions;
        (4) taking steps toward accounting for and repatriating the 
    citizens of other countries--
            (A) abducted or unlawfully held captive by the Government 
        of North Korea; or
            (B) detained in violation of the Agreement Concerning a 
        Military Armistice in Korea, signed at Panmunjom July 27, 1953 
        (commonly referred to as the ``Korean War Armistice 
        Agreement'');
        (5) accepting and beginning to abide by internationally 
    recognized standards for the distribution and monitoring of 
    humanitarian aid; and
        (6) taking verified steps to improve living conditions in its 
    political prison camps.
    (b) Renewal of Suspension.--The suspension described in subsection 
(a) may be renewed for additional, consecutive 180-day periods after 
the President certifies to the appropriate congressional committees 
that the Government of North Korea has continued to comply with the 
conditions described in subsection (a) during the previous year.
    SEC. 402. TERMINATION OF SANCTIONS AND OTHER MEASURES.
    Any sanction or other measure required under title I, II, or III 
(or any amendment made by such titles) shall terminate on the date on 
which the President determines and certifies to the appropriate 
congressional committees that the Government of North Korea has--
        (1) met the requirements set forth in section 401; and
        (2) made significant progress toward--
            (A) completely, verifiably, and irreversibly dismantling 
        all of its nuclear, chemical, biological, and radiological 
        weapons programs, including all programs for the development of 
        systems designed in whole or in part for the delivery of such 
        weapons;
            (B) releasing all political prisoners, including the 
        citizens of North Korea detained in North Korea's political 
        prison camps;
            (C) ceasing its censorship of peaceful political activity;
            (D) establishing an open, transparent, and representative 
        society; and
            (E) fully accounting for and repatriating United States 
        citizens (including deceased United States citizens)--
                (i) abducted or unlawfully held captive by the 
            Government of North Korea; or
                (ii) detained in violation of the Agreement Concerning 
            a Military Armistice in Korea, signed at Panmunjom July 27, 
            1953 (commonly referred to as the ``Korean War Armistice 
            Agreement'').
    SEC. 403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated for each 
of fiscal years 2017 through 2021--
        (1) $3,000,000 to carry out section 103 of the North Korea 
    Human Rights Act of 2004 (22 U.S.C. 7813);
        (2) $3,000,000 to carry out subsections (a), (b), and (c) of 
    section 104 of that Act (22 U.S.C. 7814);
        (3) $2,000,000 to carry out subsection (d) of such section 104, 
    as add by section 301 of this Act; and
        (4) $2,000,000 to carry out section 203 of the North Korea 
    Human Rights Act of 2004 (22 U.S.C. 7833).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Amounts appropriated for each fiscal 
year pursuant to subsection (a) shall remain available until expended.
    SEC. 404. RULEMAKING.
    (a) In General.--The President is authorized to promulgate such 
rules and regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions 
of this Act (which may include regulatory exceptions), including under 
section 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
U.S.C. 1704).
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act, or in any amendment 
made by this Act, may be construed to limit the authority of the 
President to designate or sanction persons pursuant to an applicable 
Executive order or otherwise pursuant to the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    SEC. 405. AUTHORITY TO CONSOLIDATE REPORTS.
    Any and all reports required to be submitted to appropriate 
congressional committees under this Act or any amendment made by this 
Act that are subject to a deadline for submission consisting of the 
same unit of time may be consolidated into a single report that is 
submitted to appropriate congressional committees pursuant to such 
deadline. The consolidated reports must contain all information 
required under this Act or any amendment made by this Act, in addition 
to all other elements mandated by previous law.
    SEC. 406. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    Except as otherwise provided in this Act, this Act and the 
amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date of the 
enactment of this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
