[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2859 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2859

   To establish a competitive grant program to incentivize States to 
     implement comprehensive reforms and innovative strategies to 
 significantly improve postsecondary outcomes for low-income and first 
    generation college students, including increasing postsecondary 
 enrollment and graduation rates, to reduce the need of postsecondary 
 students for remedial education, to increase alignment of high school 
and postsecondary education, and to promote innovation in postsecondary 
                   education, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 27, 2016

  Mr. Franken introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
  referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To establish a competitive grant program to incentivize States to 
     implement comprehensive reforms and innovative strategies to 
 significantly improve postsecondary outcomes for low-income and first 
    generation college students, including increasing postsecondary 
 enrollment and graduation rates, to reduce the need of postsecondary 
 students for remedial education, to increase alignment of high school 
and postsecondary education, and to promote innovation in postsecondary 
                   education, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``College Access Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) ESEA definitions.--The terms ``high school'', ``local 
        educational agency'', ``secondary school'', and ``State 
        educational agency'' have the meanings given the terms in 
        section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
            (2) Accelerated learning model.--The term ``accelerated 
        learning model'' means a program that--
                    (A) is designed to help students in high school 
                learn at a faster and more rigorous pace; and
                    (B) offers students the opportunity to earn 
                postsecondary credits and, in some cases, obtain an 
                occupational certificate or degree (including an 
                associate degree), while such students are in high 
                school.
            (3) Adult education.--The term ``adult education'' means 
        services or instruction below the postsecondary level for 
        individuals who--
                    (A) have attained 16 years of age;
                    (B) are not enrolled or required to be enrolled in 
                high school under State law; and
                    (C)(i) lack sufficient mastery of basic educational 
                skills to function effectively in society;
                    (ii) do not have a high school diploma, or the 
                recognized equivalent of such diploma, and have not 
                achieved an equivalent level of education; or
                    (iii) are unable to speak, read, or write in the 
                English language.
            (4) Community college.--The term ``community college'' has 
        the meaning given the term ``junior or community college'' in 
        section 312(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1058(f)).
            (5) Dual enrollment program.--The term ``dual enrollment 
        program'' means an academic program through which a high school 
        student is able to simultaneously earn credit toward a high 
        school diploma and a postsecondary degree or certificate.
            (6) Enrollment status.--The term ``enrollment status'' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 690.2(c) of title 34, 
        Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on July 1, 2011).
            (7) Federal pell grant.--The term ``Federal Pell Grant'' 
        means a Federal Pell Grant awarded under section 401 of the 
        Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1070a).
            (8) First generation college student.--The term ``first 
        generation college student'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 402A(h) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        1070a-11(h)).
            (9) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1002).
            (10) Low-income student.--The term ``low-income student'' 
        means--
                    (A) with respect to a postsecondary student, a 
                student who is eligible for a Federal Pell Grant; and
                    (B) with respect to a high school student, a 
                student who is eligible for free or reduced price lunch 
                under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 1751 et seq.).
            (11) Net price.--The term ``net price'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 132(a) of the Higher Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1015a(a)).
            (12) Open educational resource.--The term ``open 
        educational resource'' means an educational resource that--
                    (A) is in the public domain; or
                    (B) is made available under a permanent copyright 
                license to the public to freely adapt, distribute, and 
                otherwise use the work with attribution to the author 
                as designated.
            (13) Open textbook.--The term ``open textbook'' means an 
        open educational resource or set of open educational resources 
        that--
                    (A) is a textbook for a course at an institution of 
                higher education; or
                    (B) can be used in place of a textbook for a 
                postsecondary course at an institution of higher 
                education.
            (14) Postsecondary credential.--The term ``postsecondary 
        credential'' means an associate degree, a baccalaureate degree, 
        or a certificate provided by a community college or a 
        postsecondary vocational institution.
            (15) Postsecondary vocational institution.--The term 
        ``postsecondary vocational institution'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 102(c) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
        (20 U.S.C. 1002(c)).
            (16) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Education.
            (17) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 103 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1003).

SEC. 3. RESERVATION OF FUNDS.

    From amounts made available to carry out this Act for each fiscal 
year, the Secretary may reserve not more than 2 percent of such amounts 
to carry out activities in accordance with this Act related to 
technical assistance, evaluation, outreach, and dissemination.

SEC. 4. AUTHORIZATION OF GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--For each fiscal year for which funds are 
appropriated under section 11 and from such amounts not reserved under 
section 3, the Secretary shall award planning and implementation grants 
to States to enable such States to develop or implement a comprehensive 
plan described in section 5 to improve postsecondary outcomes for all 
students, especially low-income students and first generation college 
students.
    (b) Planning and Implementation Grants.--In accordance with 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall award--
            (1) planning grants, on a competitive basis, to States to 
        enable the States to develop a comprehensive plan described in 
        section 5; and
            (2) implementation grants, on a competitive basis, to 
        States and without regard to whether the States have received a 
        planning grant under paragraph (1), to implement a 
        comprehensive plan described in section 5.
    (c) Limitation.--A State shall not have more than 1 planning grant 
or more than 1 implementation grant at any given time. A State awarded 
a planning grant or an implementation grant may reapply for such grant 
after the termination of such grant.
    (d) Duration.--
            (1) Planning grants.--Each planning grant awarded under 
        subsection (b)(1) shall be for a period of not more than 18 
        months.
            (2) Implementation grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Each implementation grant awarded 
                under subsection (b)(2) shall be for a period of not 
                more than 5 years, subject to the requirement under 
                subparagraph (B).
                    (B) Sufficient progress.--An implementation grant 
                awarded under subsection (b)(2) shall terminate after a 
                period of 2 years, if the Secretary determines that the 
                State receiving such implementation grant has not made 
                sufficient progress in--
                            (i) implementing a comprehensive plan 
                        described in section 5, at a rate that the 
                        Secretary determines will result in complete 
                        implementation of such plan during the 
                        remainder of the grant period; and
                            (ii) meeting the annual targets under 
                        section 7(a)(2).

SEC. 5. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.

    (a) In General.--To carry out the objectives of this Act, a State 
that receives a grant under this Act shall develop, in the case of a 
planning grant, and implement, in the case of an implementation grant, 
a comprehensive plan to--
            (1) enhance the affordability of postsecondary education; 
        and
            (2) increase the number and percentage of students 
        attaining a postsecondary credential, particularly first 
        generation college students and low-income students.
    (b) Reforms.--
            (1) Universally required reforms.--The comprehensive plan 
        for each State receiving a grant under this Act shall include 
        each of the following reforms:
                    (A) Implementing measures to maintain or increase 
                fiscal support for postsecondary education that shall 
                include--
                            (i) significantly increasing the percentage 
                        of student financial need met by need-based 
                        grant aid for postsecondary education; and
                            (ii) for public and participating private 
                        institutions of higher education that have, for 
                        the most recent year for which data are 
                        available that precedes the date of 
                        application, a percentage of students who are 
                        eligible for Federal Pell Grants that is less 
                        than 25 percent, increasing such percentage 
                        throughout the grant period in order to attain 
                        a percentage of 25 percent or more by the end 
                        of the grant period.
                    (B) Increasing the transparency of information 
                provided to students and the families of such students 
                about the costs and outcomes of attaining a 
                postsecondary credential at the institutions of higher 
                education in the State, and increasing access to such 
                information for students and their families, by taking 
                measures that shall include--
                            (i) requiring the institutions of higher 
                        education in the State to adopt a net price 
                        calculator under section 132(h) of the Higher 
                        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1015a(h)) that 
                        meets the requirements of paragraph (4);
                            (ii) adopting a common letter developed by 
                        the Secretary under section 484(a) of the 
                        Higher Education Opportunity Act (20 U.S.C. 
                        1092 note) for the institutions of higher 
                        education in the State to use in awarding 
                        financial aid to students;
                            (iii) enhancing the financial literacy of 
                        students and the families of such students 
                        regarding the costs of postsecondary education 
                        and financial aid opportunities, beginning when 
                        such students enter secondary school, by 
                        requiring that each secondary school student 
                        served by a local educational agency 
                        participating in the reforms carried out of 
                        this subsection and when possible, not less 
                        than 1 parent or legal guardian of the student, 
                        meet with a secondary school counselor to 
                        understand the classes the student should take 
                        in order to graduate on time and the options 
                        available to them to afford postsecondary 
                        education;
                            (iv) reporting accurate student graduation 
                        rates for each institution of higher education 
                        in the State, disaggregated by--
                                    (I) enrollment status as a full-
                                time student or a part-time student;
                                    (II) status as a transfer student;
                                    (III) status as a low-income 
                                student; and
                                    (IV) status as a first generation 
                                college student;
                            (v) reporting the percentages of students 
                        receiving institutional financial aid who are 
                        in--
                                    (I) each of the income categories 
                                described in clauses (i) through (iv) 
                                of section 132(i)(6)(A);
                                    (II) the income category of 
                                $110,001-$200,000;
                                    (III) the income category of 
                                $201,001-$300,000; and
                                    (IV) the income category of 
                                $300,001 and more; and
                            (vi) developing practices for the 
                        continuous assessment of student learning at 
                        the postsecondary level and public reporting of 
                        student learning outcomes;
                            (vii) developing multi-year tuition and fee 
                        schedules; and
                            (viii) providing a free degree audit to any 
                        student.
            (2) Selective reforms.--The comprehensive plan under 
        section 5 of each State receiving a grant under this Act shall 
        include 1 or more of the following reforms, as chosen by such 
        State in accordance with paragraph (3):
                    (A) Removing barriers to innovation in 
                postsecondary education, which shall include--
                            (i) developing innovative education 
                        delivery models, such as using technology to 
                        enhance online and classroom learning aimed to 
                        increase participation and retention of 
                        students, particularly first generation college 
                        students and low-income students;
                            (ii) promoting the use of technology to 
                        increase personalized learning, advising, and 
                        support services for students; and
                            (iii) creating programs to create and 
                        expand the use of open educational resources, 
                        including open textbooks.
                    (B) Improving the transition of students to and 
                from postsecondary institutions and increasing the rate 
                of graduation of students from postsecondary 
                institutions, particularly such students graduating on 
                time, by increasing participation in accelerated 
                learning models, which may include--
                            (i) subsidizing the cost of advanced 
                        placement program examinations for low-income 
                        students;
                            (ii) training teachers to offer advanced 
                        placement program courses;
                            (iii) training secondary school counselors 
                        in accelerated learning options as related to 
                        high school graduation requirements and 
                        opportunities to earn postsecondary education 
                        credits;
                            (iv) training school counselors in the 
                        areas of academic advising and postsecondary 
                        financial aid options;
                            (v) subsidizing the cost of international 
                        baccalaureate examinations and programs for 
                        low-income students;
                            (vi) increasing access to dual enrollment 
                        programs for low-income students; and
                            (vii) developing programs to bring advanced 
                        placement program courses to rural schools.
                    (C) Reforming postsecondary remediation by taking 
                measures, which may include--
                            (i) reducing the need for remediation by--
                                    (I) creating targeted interventions 
                                to occur in high school or adult 
                                education that align with higher 
                                education; and
                                    (II) waiving placement testing;
                            (ii) improving the quality of remediation 
                        courses and developmental education based on 
                        emerging research-based practices;
                            (iii) improving the process for identifying 
                        the foundational skills needs of students for 
                        remediation or developmental education while 
                        such students are in high school or adult 
                        education; and
                            (iv) improving the credit transfer policies 
                        and articulation agreements, as defined in 
                        section 486A(a) of the Higher Education Act of 
                        1965 (20 U.S.C. 1093a(a)), between or among the 
                        institutions of higher education in the State.
                    (D) Any other reform, developed by the State and 
                approved by the Secretary, that--
                            (i) removes barriers to innovation in 
                        postsecondary education;
                            (ii) improves the transition of students to 
                        and from postsecondary institutions and 
                        increases the rate of graduation of students 
                        from postsecondary institutions, particularly 
                        the rate of such students graduating on time; 
                        or
                            (iii) reforms postsecondary education 
                        remediation.
            (3) Requirement for selecting reforms.--A State receiving a 
        grant under this Act shall only select a reform under paragraph 
        (2) that the State does not already have in place on the date 
        on which such grant is received.
            (4) Requirements for net price calculator.--The net price 
        calculator adopted under paragraph (1)(B)(i) by each 
        institution of higher education in a State shall meet each of 
        the following requirements:
                    (A) The link to the net price calculator made 
                publicly available on the website of such institution--
                            (i) shall be labeled as a ``net price 
                        calculator'' in a prominent, clear, and 
                        conspicuous manner, using a size and contrast 
                        (such as shade) that is readily noticeable and 
                        readable;
                            (ii) shall be posted on the website of such 
                        institution in locations that provide 
                        information on costs and aid (such as web pages 
                        for financial aid, prospective students, or 
                        tuition and fees);
                            (iii) shall match, in size and font, the 
                        other prominent links on the primary web page 
                        of such website; and
                            (iv) may be included on the web page of 
                        such institution that contains information 
                        relating to compliance with Federal, State, and 
                        local laws.
                    (B) The results screen for the net price calculator 
                shall specify each of the following:
                            (i) The individual net price (as calculated 
                        under section 132(h)(2) of the Higher Education 
                        Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1015a(h)(2))) for an 
                        individual student, which shall be the most 
                        visually prominent figure on such screen.
                            (ii) The cost of attendance at such 
                        institution of higher education for a first-
                        time, full-time undergraduate student enrolled 
                        in the institution, including--
                                    (I) tuition and fees;
                                    (II) the average annual cost of 
                                room and board;
                                    (III) the average annual cost of 
                                books and supplies; and
                                    (IV) the estimated cost of other 
                                expenses (including personal expenses 
                                and transportation).
                            (iii) The estimated total need-based grant 
                        aid and merit-based grant aid, from Federal, 
                        State, and institutional sources, that may be 
                        available to an individual student, showing the 
                        subtotal for each such category and the total 
                        of all sources of grant aid.
                            (iv) A prompt for the student, in prominent 
                        lettering, that the student will need to fill 
                        out the Free Application for Federal Student 
                        Aid, in accordance with section 483 of the 
                        Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1090), 
                        in order to receive Federal financial 
                        assistance under title IV of such Act (20 
                        U.S.C. 1070 et seq.).
                            (v) The percentage of the first-time, full-
                        time undergraduate students enrolled in the 
                        institution that received any type of grant aid 
                        described in clause (iii).
                            (vi) The disclaimer described in section 
                        132(h)(4) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 
                        (20 U.S.C. 1015a(h)(4)).
                            (vii) In the case of a calculator that--
                                    (I) includes questions to estimate 
                                the eligibility of a student (or 
                                prospective student) for veteran's 
                                education benefits (as defined in 
                                section 480(c) of the Higher Education 
                                Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1087vv(c))) or 
                                educational benefits for active duty 
                                service members, the results screen 
                                shall display such benefits in a manner 
                                that clearly distinguishes them from 
                                the grant aid described in clause 
                                (iii); or
                                    (II) does not include questions to 
                                estimate eligibility for the benefits 
                                described in subclause (I), the results 
                                screen shall indicate that certain 
                                students (or prospective students) may 
                                qualify for such benefits and include a 
                                link to information about such 
                                benefits.
                    (C) The institution shall populate the calculator 
                with data from not earlier than 2 academic years prior 
                to the most recent academic year completed on the date 
                of enactment of this Act.
                    (D) The net price calculator shall clearly indicate 
                which questions are required to be answered for a net 
                price estimate.
                    (E) In the case of a calculator that requests 
                contact information from users, the net price 
                calculator shall clearly indicate that such request is 
                ``optional''.
                    (F) The net price calculator shall protect the 
                confidentiality of users by including mechanisms to 
                prevent any personally identifiable information from 
                being sold or made available to third parties. The net 
                price calculator shall clearly state: ``Any information 
                that you provide on this site is confidential.''.
                    (G) The net price calculator shall not store 
                responses, shall not require any personal identifying 
                information from users, and shall clearly state: ``The 
                Net Price Calculator does not store your responses and 
                does not require personal identifying information of 
                any kind.''.

SEC. 6. APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Submission.--A State desiring a planning grant or an 
implementation grant under this Act shall submit an application to the 
Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information 
as the Secretary may reasonably require.
    (b) Contents for All Grants.--Each application for a planning grant 
or an implementation grant under this Act shall include, at a minimum--
            (1) a demonstration that the State has established 
        mechanisms and the ability to use funds made available under 
        this Act and other sources of funding, including Federal, 
        State, and local funds, to implement the reforms under section 
        5(b); and
            (2) an assurance that the State--
                    (A) will include, in carrying out all of the 
                reforms required under section 5(b), all public 
                institutions of higher education in the State and all 
                State agencies with governing authority over 
                postsecondary education in the State; and
                    (B) will include private institutions of higher 
                education located in the State in carrying out the 
                reforms applicable to such institutions.
    (c) Planning Grants.--An application for a planning grant awarded 
under section 4(b)(1) shall include, in addition to the requirements 
described in subsection (b)--
            (1) a proposal describing how the State will develop and 
        establish a comprehensive plan to implement the reforms under 
        section 5(b);
            (2) a description of how the State will include, in 
        developing the comprehensive plan--
                    (A) all public institutions of higher education in 
                the State;
                    (B) private nonprofit organizations, including 
                private institutions of higher education, that choose 
                to participate in the development of such plan;
                    (C) the State educational agency and the local 
                educational agencies that will be participating in the 
                reforms carried out under section 5(b); and
                    (D) other stakeholders, as designated by the 
                Governor of the State; and
            (3) a description of the State agencies and other entities 
        that will control the programs funded by the grant and how such 
        entities will interact in carrying out the activities of the 
        planning grant, as determined by the Governor for the State.
    (d) Implementation Grants.--An application for an implementation 
grant awarded under section 4(b)(2) shall include, in addition to the 
requirements described in subsection (b)--
            (1) a proposal describing how the State will use the 
        implementation grant to--
                    (A) carry out the reforms required under section 
                5(b), in accordance with the comprehensive plan; and
                    (B) meet the annual targets established by the 
                State under section 7(a)(2), at a rate that the 
                Secretary determines will result in reaching the goals 
                of the grant established by such State under such 
                section; and
            (2) a description of the State agencies and other entities 
        that the Governor of the State has determined will control the 
        programs funded by the grant and how such entities will 
        interact in carrying out the activities of the implementation 
        grant.
    (e) Application Review.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall award grants under 
        this Act on a competitive basis considering the quality of the 
        applications submitted.
            (2) Award basis.--
                    (A) Priorities.--In awarding grants under this Act, 
                the Secretary shall give priority to--
                            (i) States that show a stronger capacity to 
                        use the funds made available under this Act to 
                        implement a comprehensive plan under section 5;
                            (ii) States that commit, in the application 
                        submitted under this section--
                                    (I) in the case of a planning 
                                grant, to develop and establish a 
                                comprehensive plan that implements the 
                                universally required reforms under 
                                section 5(b)(1) and the selective 
                                reforms described in subparagraphs (A), 
                                (B), and (C) of section 5(b)(2); or
                                    (II) in the case of an 
                                implementation grant, to carry out a 
                                comprehensive plan that implements the 
                                universally required reforms under 
                                section 5(b)(1) and the selective 
                                reforms described in subparagraphs (A), 
                                (B), and (C) of section 5(b)(2); and
                            (iii) States that agree to provide 
                        substantial matching funds toward the 
                        activities funded under the grant.
                    (B) Consideration.--In awarding grants under this 
                Act, the Secretary shall give special consideration to 
                States that enter into a partnership with 1 or more 
                private institutions of higher education in order to 
                carry out the reforms described in section 5(b) that 
                are to be planned or carried out under the grant in 
                both public and private institutions.
            (3) Publication of explanation.--The Secretary shall 
        prepare and submit to Congress and publish on the website of 
        the Department of Education an explanation of the application 
        process, including the fairness, equity, transparency, and 
        objectivity of the process.

SEC. 7. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS; ANNUAL TARGETS; GOALS.

    (a) In General.--Each State receiving a planning grant under this 
Act, and each State applying for an implementation grant under this 
Act, shall establish, in accordance with subsection (c) and subject to 
approval by the Secretary--
            (1) performance indicators that measure the progress of 
        such State in each of the areas described in subsection (b);
            (2) annual targets, for the programs and activities carried 
        out under this Act, that will enable such State to reach the 
        goals under paragraph (3); and
            (3) goals, to be met by such State at the end of the 
        implementation grant period, for achieving progress in each of 
        the areas described in subsection (b).
    (b) Progress Areas.--The performance indicators, annual targets, 
and goals described in subsection (a) shall, at a minimum, track the 
progress of the State in each of the following areas:
            (1) Implementing the reforms under section 5(b).
            (2) Increasing--
                    (A) the student graduation rate of first generation 
                college students and low-income students at 
                institutions of higher education in the State;
                    (B) the number and percentage of students from 
                community colleges and postsecondary vocational 
                institutions who transfer to a 4-year institution of 
                higher education in the State and attain a 
                baccalaureate degree; and
                    (C) the number and percentage of students attending 
                institutions of higher education in the State who are 
                eligible for Federal Pell Grants.
            (3) Reducing the net price of attaining a postsecondary 
        credential.
    (c) Implementation Grants.--
            (1) Options for state that has received a planning grant.--
        A State that has received a planning grant under this Act shall 
        use the performance indicators, annual targets, and goals 
        developed by such entity using the funds of such planning grant 
        to apply for and carry out the activities of an implementation 
        grant under this Act.
            (2) Requirements for other entities.--A State that has not 
        received a planning grant under this Act shall--
                    (A) establish performance indicators, annual 
                targets, and goals described in subsection (a) prior to 
                applying for an implementation grant under this Act; 
                and
                    (B) verify such establishment in the application 
                for such implementation grant.

SEC. 8. USES OF FUNDS.

    (a) In General.--A State receiving funds from a grant under this 
Act shall use such funds to carry out the activities of the grant.
    (b) Additional Partners.--A State receiving funds from a grant 
under this Act may enter into a partnership or agreement with a 
nonprofit organization, such as a nonprofit organization that 
specializes in financial literacy or other subjects, to carry out the 
activities under the grant.
    (c) Prohibitions.--A State receiving funds from a grant under this 
Act shall not use such funds to--
            (1) promote any lender's loans; or
            (2) compensate for a decrease in the appropriations for 
        higher education made by the State.
    (d) Terminated Grants.--If an implementation grant is terminated 
under section 4(d)(2)(B), the State that received such grant shall 
return any unused funds of the grant to the Secretary. The Secretary 
shall use such funds to--
            (1) increase funds made available to other grants awarded 
        under this Act; or
            (2) award additional grants to other States.

SEC. 9. REPORTS AND EVALUATION.

    (a) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--A State that receives an implementation 
        grant under this Act shall submit to the Secretary an annual 
        report that, at a minimum, includes--
                    (A) data on the progress of such State in achieving 
                the annual targets established under section 7; and
                    (B) a description of the challenges that such State 
                has faced in carrying out the grant and how such State 
                has addressed or plans to address such challenges.
    (b) Evaluation.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) acting through the Director of the Institute of 
        Education Sciences, evaluate the implementation and impact of 
        the activities carried out by this Act; and
            (2) disseminate research on best practices for carrying out 
        activities to achieve the objectives of this Act.

SEC. 10. SUPPLEMENT AND NOT SUPPLANT.

    The funds authorized under this Act shall supplement, and not 
supplant, other Federal, State, and local funds that are available to 
enhance the affordability of attaining a postsecondary credential and 
increase the student graduation rates for institutions of higher 
education.

SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be 
necessary to carry out this Act.
                                 <all>
