[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 223 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 223

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 29, 2015.
    Resolved, That (a) at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of any 
bill specified in section 2 of this resolution. The first reading of each such 
bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of each 
such bill are waived. General debate on each such bill shall be confined to that 
bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general 
debate each such bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute 
rule. Points of order against provisions in each such bill for failure to comply 
with clause 2 of rule XXI are waived.
    (b) During consideration of each such bill for amendment--
            (1) each amendment, other than amendments provided for in paragraph 
        (2), shall be debatable for 10 minutes equally divided and controlled by 
        the proponent and an opponent and shall not be subject to amendment 
        except as provided in paragraph (2);
            (2) no pro forma amendment shall be in order except that the chair 
        and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations or their 
        respective designees may offer up to 10 pro forma amendments each at any 
        point for the purpose of debate; and
            (3) the chair of the Committee of the Whole may accord priority in 
        recognition on the basis of whether the Member offering an amendment has 
        caused it to be printed in the portion of the Congressional Record 
        designated for that purpose in clause 8 of rule XVIII. Amendments so 
        printed shall be considered as read.
    (c) When the committee rises and reports any such bill back to the House 
with a recommendation that the bill do pass, the previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on that bill and amendments thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  The bills referred to in the first section of this resolution are 
as follows:
     (a) The bill (H.R. 2028) making appropriations for energy and water 
development and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, 
and for other purposes.
    (b) The bill (H.R. 2029) making appropriations for military construction, 
the Department of Veterans Affairs, and related agencies for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2016, and for other purposes.
    Sec. 3.  During consideration of H.R. 2028 and H.R. 2029 pursuant to this 
resolution--
     (a) the provisions of House Concurrent Resolution 27, as adopted by the 
House, shall have force and effect in the House as though Congress has adopted 
such concurrent resolution; and
    (b) the allocations printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution shall be considered for all purposes in the House 
to be allocations under section 302(a) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from May 4, 2015, through 
May 11, 2015--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
