[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2814 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2814

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
 To name the Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient 
clinic in Sevierville, Tennessee, the Dannie A. Carr Veterans Outpatient 
                                 Clinic.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
    Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The State of Tennessee, the Volunteer State, holds a proud 
    tradition of selfless volunteerism to the United States Armed 
    Forces.
        (2) Specialist Four Dannie A. Carr, of Sevier County, 
    Tennessee, served with distinction in B Company, 2nd Battalion, 7th 
    Cavalry Regiment, 1st Cavalry Division during the Vietnam War in 
    defense of the United States.
        (3) Specialist Four Dannie A. Carr, twice wounded in battle and 
    later killed in action by artillery fire on July 3, 1969, has been 
    duly recognized by the Army, having been awarded the Bronze Star 
    for Valor and the Purple Heart.
        (4) The heroism of Dannie A. Carr is well known and held in 
    high regard within the community of Sevier County, Tennessee.
        (5) The municipalities of Pittman Center, Sevierville, Pigeon 
    Forge, Gatlinburg, and Sevier County have agreed to and passed 
    resolutions supporting the renaming of the Department of Veterans 
    Affairs community-based outpatient clinic in Sevier County, 
    Tennessee, in honor of Specialist Four Dannie Arthur Carr.
SEC. 2. NAME OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS COMMUNITY-BASED 
OUTPATIENT CLINIC, SEVIERVILLE, TENNESSEE.
     The Department of Veterans Affairs community-based outpatient 
clinic located at 1124 Blanton Drive, Sevierville, Tennessee, shall 
after the date of the enactment of this Act be known and designated as 
the ``Dannie A. Carr Veterans Outpatient Clinic''. Any reference to 
such community-based outpatient clinic in any law, regulation, map, 
document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be 
considered to be a reference to the Dannie A. Carr Veterans Outpatient 
Clinic.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
