[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2943 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.2943

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2017 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
         strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2017''.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into five divisions as 
follows:
        (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
        (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
        (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
    Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
        (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
        (5) Division E--Uniform Code of Military Justice Reform.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Multiyear procurement authority for AH-64E Apache helicopters.
Sec. 112. Multiyear procurement authority for UH-60M and HH-60M Black 
          Hawk helicopters.
Sec. 113. Distributed Common Ground System-Army increment 1.
Sec. 114. Assessment of certain capabilities of the Department of the 
          Army.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Determination of vessel delivery dates.
Sec. 122. Incremental funding for detail design and construction of LHA 
          replacement ship designated LHA 8.
Sec. 123. Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 124. Limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding contracts for 
          certain vessels.
Sec. 125. Limitation on availability of funds for the Advanced Arresting 
          Gear Program.
Sec. 126. Limitation on availability of funds for procurement of U.S.S. 
          Enterprise (CVN-80).
Sec. 127. Sense of Congress on aircraft carrier procurement schedules.
Sec. 128. Report on P-8 Poseidon aircraft.
Sec. 129. Design and construction of replacement dock landing ship 
          designated LX(R) or amphibious transport dock designated LPD-
          29.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. EC-130H Compass Call recapitalization program.
Sec. 132. Repeal of requirement to preserve certain retired C-5 
          aircraft.
Sec. 133. Repeal of requirement to preserve F-117 aircraft in recallable 
          condition.
Sec. 134. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of A-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 135. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of A-10 
          aircraft in storage status.
Sec. 136. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of Joint 
          Surveillance Target Attack Radar System aircraft.
Sec. 137. Elimination of annual report on aircraft inventory.

        Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. Standardization of 5.56mm rifle ammunition.
Sec. 142. Fire suppressant and fuel containment standards for certain 
          vehicles.
Sec. 143. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of certain 
          cluster munitions.
Sec. 144. Report on Department of Defense munitions strategy for the 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 145. Modifications to reporting on use of combat mission 
          requirements funds.
Sec. 146. Report on alternative management structures for the F-35 joint 
          strike fighter program.
Sec. 147. Comptroller General review of F-35 Lightning II aircraft 
          sustainment support.
Sec. 148. Briefing on acquisition strategy for Ground Mobility Vehicle.
Sec. 149. Study and report on optimal mix of aircraft capabilities for 
          the Armed Forces.

          TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Laboratory quality enhancement program.
Sec. 212. Modification of mechanisms to provide funds for defense 
          laboratories for research and development of technologies for 
          military missions.
Sec. 213. Making permanent authority for defense research and 
          development rapid innovation program.
Sec. 214. Authorization for National Defense University and Defense 
          Acquisition University to enter into cooperative research and 
          development agreements.
Sec. 215. Manufacturing Engineering Education Grant Program.
Sec. 216. Notification requirement for certain rapid prototyping, 
          experimentation, and demonstration activities.
Sec. 217. Increased micro-purchase threshold for research programs and 
          entities.
Sec. 218. Improved biosafety for handling of select agents and toxins.
Sec. 219. Designation of Department of Defense senior official with 
          principal responsibility for directed energy weapons.
Sec. 220. Restructuring of the distributed common ground system of the 
          Army.
Sec. 221. Limitation on availability of funds for the countering weapons 
          of mass destruction system Constellation.
Sec. 222. Limitation on availability of funds for Defense Innovation 
          Unit Experimental.
Sec. 223. Limitation on availability of funds for Joint Surveillance 
          Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) recapitalization program.
Sec. 224. Acquisition program baseline and annual reports on follow-on 
          modernization program for F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Strategy for assured access to trusted microelectronics.
Sec. 232. Pilot program on evaluation of commercial information 
          technology.
Sec. 233. Pilot program for the enhancement of the research, 
          development, test, and evaluation centers of the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 234. Pilot program on modernization and fielding of electromagnetic 
          spectrum warfare systems and electronic warfare capabilities.
Sec. 235. Pilot program on disclosure of certain sensitive information 
          to federally funded research and development centers.
Sec. 236. Pilot program on enhanced interaction between the Defense 
          Advanced Research Projects Agency and the service academies.
Sec. 237. Independent review of F/A-18 physiological episodes and 
          corrective actions.
Sec. 238. B-21 bomber development program accountability matrices.
Sec. 239. Study on helicopter crash prevention and mitigation 
          technology.
Sec. 240. Strategy for Improving Electronic and Electromagnetic Spectrum 
          Warfare Capabilities.
Sec. 241. Sense of Congress on development and fielding of fifth 
          generation airborne systems.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Modified reporting requirement related to installations energy 
          management.
Sec. 312. Waiver authority for alternative fuel procurement requirement.
Sec. 313. Utility data management for military facilities.
Sec. 314. Alternative technologies for munitions disposal.
Sec. 315. Report on efforts to reduce high energy costs at military 
          installations.
Sec. 316. Sense of Congress on funding decisions relating to climate 
          change.

                  Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Revision of deployability rating system and planning reform.
Sec. 322. Revision of guidance relating to corrosion control and 
          prevention executives.
Sec. 323. Pilot program for inclusion of certain industrial plants in 
          the Armament Retooling and Manufacturing Support Initiative.
Sec. 324. Repair, recapitalization, and certification of dry docks at 
          naval shipyards.
Sec. 325. Private sector port loading assessment.
Sec. 326. Strategy on revitalizing Army organic industrial base.

                           Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Modifications to Quarterly Readiness Report to Congress.
Sec. 332. Report on average travel costs of members of the reserve 
          components.
Sec. 333. Report on HH-60G sustainment and Combat Rescue Helicopter 
          program.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Air navigation matters.
Sec. 342. Contract working dogs.
Sec. 343. Plan, funding documents, and management review relating to 
          explosive ordnance disposal.
Sec. 344. Process for communicating availability of surplus ammunition.
Sec. 345. Mitigation of risks posed by window coverings with accessible 
          cords in certain military housing units.
Sec. 346. Access to military installations by transportation companies.
Sec. 347. Access to wireless high-speed Internet and network connections 
          for certain members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 348. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the Under 
          Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
Sec. 349. Limitation on development and fielding of new camouflage and 
          utility uniforms.
Sec. 350. Plan for improved dedicated adversary air training enterprise 
          of the Air Force.
Sec. 351. Independent review and assessment of the Ready Aircrew Program 
          of the Air Force.
Sec. 352. Study on space-available travel system of the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 353. Evaluation of motor carrier safety performance and safety 
          technology.

               TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2017 limitation on number of non-dual status 
          technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.
Sec. 416. Technical corrections to annual authorization for personnel 
          strengths.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Reduction in number of general and flag officers on active 
          duty and authorized strength after December 31, 2022, of such 
          general and flag officers.
Sec. 502. Repeal of statutory specification of general or flag officer 
          grade for various positions in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 503. Number of Marine Corps general officers.
Sec. 504. Promotion eligibility period for officers whose confirmation 
          of appointment is delayed due to nonavailability to the Senate 
          of probative information under control of non-Department of 
          Defense agencies.
Sec. 505. Continuation of certain officers on active duty without regard 
          to requirement for retirement for years of service.
Sec. 506. Equal consideration of officers for early retirement or 
          discharge.
Sec. 507. Modification of authority to drop from rolls a commissioned 
          officer.
Sec. 508. Extension of force management authorities allowing enhanced 
          flexibility for officer personnel management.
Sec. 509. Pilot programs on direct commissions to cyber positions.
Sec. 510. Length of joint duty assignments.
Sec. 510A. Revision of definitions used for joint officer management.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Authority for temporary waiver of limitation on term of 
          service of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Sec. 512. Rights and protections available to military technicians.
Sec. 513. Inapplicability of certain laws to National Guard technicians 
          performing active Guard and Reserve duty.
Sec. 514. Extension of removal of restrictions on the transfer of 
          officers between the active and inactive National Guard.
Sec. 515. Extension of temporary authority to use Air Force reserve 
          component personnel to provide training and instruction 
          regarding pilot training.
Sec. 516. Expansion of eligibility for deputy commander of combatant 
          command having United States among geographic area of 
          responsibility to include officers of the Reserves.

                 Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 521. Matters relating to provision of leave for members of the 
          Armed Forces, including prohibition on leave not expressly 
          authorized by law.
Sec. 522. Transfer of provision relating to expenses incurred in 
          connection with leave canceled due to contingency operations.
Sec. 523. Expansion of authority to execute certain military 
          instruments.
Sec. 524. Medical examination before administrative separation for 
          members with post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain 
          injury in connection with sexual assault.
Sec. 525. Reduction of tenure on the temporary disability retired list.
Sec. 526. Technical correction to voluntary separation pay and benefits.
Sec. 527. Consolidation of Army marketing and pilot program on 
          consolidated Army recruiting.

Subtitle D--Member Whistleblower Protections and Correction of Military 
                                 Records

Sec. 531. Improvements to whistleblower protection procedures.
Sec. 532. Modification of whistleblower protection authorities to 
          restrict contrary findings of prohibited personnel action by 
          the Secretary concerned.
Sec. 533. Availability of certain Correction of Military Records and 
          Discharge Review Board information through the Internet.
Sec. 534. Improvements to authorities and procedures for the correction 
          of military records.
Sec. 535. Treatment by discharge review boards of claims asserting post-
          traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury in 
          connection with combat or sexual trauma as a basis for review 
          of discharge.
Sec. 536. Comptroller General of the United States review of integrity 
          of Department of Defense whistleblower program.

        Subtitle E--Military Justice and Legal Assistance Matters

Sec. 541. United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 542. Effective prosecution and defense in courts-martial and pilot 
          programs on professional military justice development for 
          judge advocates.
Sec. 543. Inclusion in annual reports on sexual assault prevention and 
          response efforts of the Armed Forces of information on 
          complaints of retaliation in connection with reports of sexual 
          assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 544. Extension of the requirement for annual report regarding 
          sexual assaults and coordination with release of Family 
          Advocacy Program report.
Sec. 545. Metrics for evaluating the efforts of the Armed Forces to 
          prevent and respond to retaliation in connection with reports 
          of sexual assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 546. Training for Department of Defense personnel who investigate 
          claims of retaliation.
Sec. 547. Notification to complainants of resolution of investigations 
          into retaliation.
Sec. 548. Modification of definition of sexual harassment for purposes 
          of investigations by commanding officers of complaints of 
          harassment.
Sec. 549. Improved Department of Defense prevention of and response to 
          hazing in the Armed Forces.

   Subtitle F--National Commission on Military, National, and Public 
                                 Service

Sec. 551. Purpose, scope, and definitions.
Sec. 552. Preliminary report on purpose and utility of registration 
          system under Military Selective Service Act.
Sec. 553. National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service.
Sec. 554. Commission hearings and meetings.
Sec. 555. Principles and procedure for Commission recommendations.
Sec. 556. Executive Director and staff.
Sec. 557. Termination of Commission.

   Subtitle G--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

Sec. 561. Modification of program to assist members of the Armed Forces 
          in obtaining professional credentials.
Sec. 562. Inclusion of alcohol, prescription drug, opioid, and other 
          substance abuse counseling as part of required preseparation 
          counseling.
Sec. 563. Inclusion of information in Transition Assistance Program 
          regarding effect of receipt of both veteran disability 
          compensation and voluntary separation pay.
Sec. 564. Training under Transition Assistance Program on career and 
          employment opportunities associated with transportation 
          security cards.
Sec. 565. Extension of suicide prevention and resilience program.
Sec. 566. Congressional notification in advance of appointments to 
          service academies.
Sec. 567. Report and guidance on Job Training, Employment Skills 
          Training, Apprenticeships, and Internships and SkillBridge 
          initiatives for members of the Armed Forces who are being 
          separated.
Sec. 568. Military-to-mariner transition.

Subtitle H--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                 Matters

Sec. 571. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies 
          that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and 
          Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 572. One-year extension of authorities relating to the transition 
          and support of military dependent students to local 
          educational agencies.
Sec. 573. Annual notice to members of the Armed Forces regarding child 
          custody protections guaranteed by the Servicemembers Civil 
          Relief Act.
Sec. 574. Requirement for annual Family Advocacy Program report 
          regarding child abuse and domestic violence.
Sec. 575. Reporting on allegations of child abuse in military families 
          and homes.
Sec. 576. Repeal of Advisory Council on Dependents' Education.
Sec. 577. Support for programs providing camp experience for children of 
          military families.
Sec. 578. Comptroller General of the United States assessment and report 
          on Exceptional Family Member Programs.
Sec. 579. Impact aid amendments.

                   Subtitle I--Decorations and Awards

 Sec. 581. Posthumous advancement of Colonel George E. ``Bud'' Day, 
          United States Air Force, on the retired list.
Sec. 582. Authorization for award of medals for acts of valor during 
          certain contingency operations.
Sec. 583. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to Gary M. Rose 
          and James C. McCloughan for acts of valor during the Vietnam 
          War.
Sec. 584. Authorization for award of Distinguished-Service Cross to 
          First Lieutenant Melvin M. Spruiell for acts of valor during 
          World War II.
Sec. 585. Authorization for award of the Distinguished Service Cross to 
          Chaplain (First Lieutenant) Joseph Verbis LaFleur for acts of 
          valor during World War II.
Sec. 586. Review regarding award of Medal of Honor to certain Asian 
          American and Native American Pacific Islander war veterans.

           Subtitle J--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 591. Repeal of requirement for a chaplain at the United States Air 
          Force Academy appointed by the President.
Sec. 592. Extension of limitation on reduction in number of military and 
          civilian personnel assigned to duty with service review 
          agencies.
Sec. 593. Annual reports on progress of the Army and the Marine Corps in 
          integrating women into military occupational specialities and 
          units recently opened to women.
Sec. 594. Report on feasability of electronic tracking of operational 
          active-duty service performed by members of the Ready Reserve 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 595. Report on discharge by warrant officers of pilot and other 
          flight officer positions in the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air 
          Force currently discharged by commissioned officers.
Sec. 596. Body mass index test.
Sec. 597. Report on career progression tracks of the Armed Forces for 
          women in combat arms units.

           TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Fiscal year 2017 increase in military basic pay.
Sec. 602. Publication by Department of Defense of actual rates of basic 
          pay payable to members of the Armed Forces by pay grade for 
          annual or other pay periods.
Sec. 603. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
          of basic allowance for housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 604. Reports on a new single-salary pay system for members of the 
          Armed Forces.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
          nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
          consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
          authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other 
          title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Aviation incentive pay and bonus matters.
Sec. 617. Conforming amendment to consolidation of special pay, 
          incentive pay, and bonus authorities.
Sec. 618. Technical amendments relating to 2008 consolidation of certain 
          special pay authorities.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

Sec. 621. Maximum reimbursement amount for travel expenses of members of 
          the Reserves attending inactive duty training outside of 
          normal commuting distances.

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

        Part I--Amendments in Connection With Retired Pay Reform

Sec. 631. Election period for members in the service academies and 
          inactive Reserves to participate in the modernized retirement 
          system.
Sec. 632. Effect of separation of members from the uniformed services on 
          participation in the Thrift Savings Plan.
Sec. 633. Continuation pay for full Thrift Savings Plan members who have 
          completed 8 to 12 years of service.
Sec. 634. Combat-related special compensation coordinating amendment.

                         Part II--Other Matters

Sec. 641. Use of member's current pay grade and years of service and 
          retired pay cost-of-living adjustments, rather than final 
          retirement pay grade and years of service, in a division of 
          property involving disposable retired pay.
Sec. 642. Equal benefits under Survivor Benefit Plan for survivors of 
          reserve component members who die in the line of duty during 
          inactive-duty training.
Sec. 643. Authority to deduct Survivor Benefit Plan premiums from 
          combat-related special compensation when retired pay not 
          sufficient.
Sec. 644. Extension of allowance covering monthly premium for 
          Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance while in certain overseas 
          areas to cover members in any combat zone or overseas direct 
          support area.
Sec. 645. Authority for payment of pay and allowances and retired and 
          retainer pay pursuant to power of attorney.
Sec. 646. Extension of authority to pay special survivor indemnity 
          allowance under the Survivor Benefit Plan.
Sec. 647. Repeal of obsolete authority for combat-related injury 
          rehabilitation pay.
Sec. 648. Independent assessment of the Survivor Benefit Plan.

Subtitle E--Commissary and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality Benefits 
                             and Operations

Sec. 661. Protection and enhancement of access to and savings at 
          commissaries and exchanges.
Sec. 662. Acceptance of Military Star Card at commissaries.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 671. Recovery of amounts owed to the United States by members of 
          the uniformed services.
Sec. 672. Modification of flat rate per diem requirement for personnel 
          on long-term temporary duty assignments.

                    TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

        Subtitle A--Reform of TRICARE and Military Health System

Sec. 701. TRICARE Select and other TRICARE reform.
Sec. 702. Reform of administration of the Defense Health Agency and 
          military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 703. Military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 704. Access to urgent and primary care under TRICARE program.
Sec. 705. Value-based purchasing and acquisition of managed care support 
          contracts for TRICARE program.
Sec. 706. Establishment of high performance military-civilian integrated 
          health delivery systems.
Sec. 707. Joint Trauma System.
Sec. 708. Joint Trauma Education and Training Directorate.
Sec. 709. Standardized system for scheduling medical appointments at 
          military treatment facilities.

                 Subtitle B--Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 711. Extended TRICARE program coverage for certain members of the 
          National Guard and dependents during certain disaster response 
          duty.
Sec. 712. Continuity of health care coverage for Reserve Components.
Sec. 713. Provision of hearing aids to dependents of retired members.
Sec. 714. Coverage of medically necessary food and vitamins for certain 
          conditions under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 715. Eligibility of certain beneficiaries under the TRICARE program 
          for participation in the Federal Employees Dental and Vision 
          Insurance Program.
Sec. 716. Applied behavior analysis.
Sec. 717. Evaluation and treatment of veterans and civilians at military 
          treatment facilities.
Sec. 718. Enhancement of use of telehealth services in military health 
          system.
Sec. 719. Authorization of reimbursement by Department of Defense to 
          entities carrying out State vaccination programs for costs of 
          vaccines provided to covered beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle C--Health Care Administration

Sec. 721. Authority to convert military medical and dental positions to 
          civilian medical and dental positions.
Sec. 722. Prospective payment of funds necessary to provide medical care 
          for the Coast Guard.
Sec. 723. Reduction of administrative requirements relating to automatic 
          renewal of enrollments in TRICARE Prime.
Sec. 724. Modification of authority of Uniformed Services University of 
          the Health Sciences to include undergraduate and other medical 
          education and training programs.
Sec. 725. Adjustment of medical services, personnel authorized 
          strengths, and infrastructure in military health system to 
          maintain readiness and core competencies of health care 
          providers.
Sec. 726. Program to eliminate variability in health outcomes and 
          improve quality of health care services delivered in military 
          medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 727. Acquisition strategy for health care professional staffing 
          services.
Sec. 728. Adoption of core quality performance metrics.
Sec. 729. Improvement of health outcomes and control of costs of health 
          care under TRICARE program through programs to involve covered 
          beneficiaries.
Sec. 730. Accountability for the performance of the military health 
          system of certain leaders within the system.
Sec. 731. Establishment of advisory committees for military treatment 
          facilities.

                  Subtitle D--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 741. Extension of authority for joint Department of Defense-
          Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
          Fund and report on implementation of information technology 
          capabilities.
Sec. 742. Pilot program on expansion of use of physician assistants to 
          provide mental health care to members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 743. Pilot program for prescription drug acquisition cost parity in 
          the TRICARE pharmacy benefits program.
Sec. 744. Pilot program on display of wait times at urgent care clinics 
          and pharmacies of military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 745. Requirement to review and monitor prescribing practices at 
          military treatment facilities of pharmaceutical agents for 
          treatment of post-traumatic stress.
Sec. 746. Department of Defense study on preventing the diversion of 
          opioid medications.
Sec. 747. Incorporation into survey by Department of Defense of 
          questions on experiences of members of the Armed Forces with 
          family planning services and counseling.
Sec. 748. Assessment of transition to TRICARE program by families of 
          members of reserve components called to active duty and 
          elimination of certain charges for such families.
Sec. 749. Oversight of graduate medical education programs of military 
          departments.
Sec. 750. Study on health of helicopter and tiltrotor pilots.
Sec. 751. Comptroller General reports on health care delivery and waste 
          in military health system.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                 MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Rapid acquisition authority amendments.
Sec. 802. Authority for temporary service of Principal Military Deputies 
          to the Assistant Secretaries of the military departments for 
          acquisition as Acting Assistant Secretaries.
Sec. 803. Modernization of services acquisition.
Sec. 804. Defense Modernization Account amendments.

          Subtitle B--Department of Defense Acquisition Agility

Sec. 805. Modular open system approach in development of major weapon 
          systems.
Sec. 806. Development, prototyping, and deployment of weapon system 
          components or technology.
Sec. 807. Cost, schedule, and performance of major defense acquisition 
          programs.
Sec. 808. Transparency in major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 809. Amendments relating to technical data rights.

 Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 811. Modified restrictions on undefinitized contractual actions.
Sec. 812. Amendments relating to inventory and tracking of purchases of 
          services.
Sec. 813. Use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
          process.
Sec. 814. Procurement of personal protective equipment.
Sec. 815. Amendments related to detection and avoidance of counterfeit 
          electronic parts.
Sec. 816. Amendments to special emergency procurement authority.
Sec. 817. Compliance with domestic source requirements for footwear 
          furnished to enlisted members of the Armed Forces upon their 
          initial entry into the Armed Forces.
Sec. 818. Extension of authority for enhanced transfer of technology 
          developed at Department of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 819. Modified notification requirement for exercise of waiver 
          authority to acquire vital national security capabilities.
Sec. 820. Defense cost accounting standards.
Sec. 821. Increased micro-purchase threshold applicable to Department of 
          Defense procurements.
Sec. 822. Enhanced competition requirements.
Sec. 823. Revision to effective date of senior executive benchmark 
          compensation for allowable cost limitations.
Sec. 824. Treatment of independent research and development costs on 
          certain contracts.
Sec. 825. Exception to requirement to include cost or price to the 
          Government as a factor in the evaluation of proposals for 
          certain multiple-award task or delivery order contracts.
Sec. 826. Extension of program for comprehensive small business 
          contracting plans.
Sec. 827. Treatment of side-by-side testing of certain equipment, 
          munitions, and technologies manufactured and developed under 
          cooperative research and development agreements as use of 
          competitive procedures.
Sec. 828. Defense Acquisition Challenge Program amendments.
Sec. 829. Preference for fixed-price contracts.
Sec. 830. Requirement to use firm fixed-price contracts for foreign 
          military sales.
Sec. 831. Preference for performance-based contract payments.
Sec. 832. Contractor incentives to achieve savings and improve mission 
          performance.
Sec. 833. Sunset and repeal of certain contracting provisions.
Sec. 834. Flexibility in contracting award program.
Sec. 835. Protection of task order competition.
Sec. 836. Contract closeout authority.
Sec. 837. Closeout of old Department of the Navy contracts.

  Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 841. Change in date of submission to Congress of Selected 
          Acquisition Reports.
Sec. 842. Amendments relating to independent cost estimation and cost 
          analysis.
Sec. 843.  Revisions to Milestone B determinations.
Sec. 844. Review and report on sustainment planning in the acquisition 
          process.
Sec. 845. Revision to distribution of annual report on operational test 
          and evaluation.
Sec. 846. Repeal of major automated information systems provisions.
Sec. 847. Revisions to definition of major defense acquisition program.
Sec. 848. Acquisition strategy.
Sec. 849. Improved life-cycle cost control.
Sec. 850. Authority to designate increments or blocks of items delivered 
          under major defense acquisition programs as major subprograms 
          for purposes of acquisition reporting.
Sec. 851. Reporting of small business participation on Department of 
          Defense programs.
Sec. 852. Waiver of congressional notification for acquisition of 
          tactical missiles and munitions greater than quantity 
          specified in law.
Sec. 853. Multiple program multiyear contract pilot demonstration 
          program.
Sec. 854. Key performance parameter reduction pilot program.
Sec. 855. Mission integration management.

        Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 861. Project management.
Sec. 862. Authority to waive tenure requirement for program managers for 
          program definition and program execution periods.
Sec. 863. Purposes for which the Department of Defense Acquisition 
          Workforce Development Fund may be used; advisory panel 
          amendments.
Sec. 864. Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund 
          determination adjustment.
Sec. 865. Limitations on funds used for staff augmentation contracts at 
          management headquarters of the Department of Defense and the 
          military departments.
Sec. 866. Senior Military Acquisition Advisors in the Defense 
          Acquisition Corps.
Sec. 867. Authority of the Secretary of Defense under the acquisition 
          demonstration project.

           Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 871. Market research for determination of price reasonableness in 
          acquisition of commercial items.
Sec. 872. Value analysis for the determination of price reasonableness.
Sec. 873. Clarification of requirements relating to commercial item 
          determinations.
Sec. 874. Inapplicability of certain laws and regulations to the 
          acquisition of commercial items and commercially available 
          off-the-shelf items.
Sec. 875. Use of commercial or non-Government standards in lieu of 
          military specifications and standards.
Sec. 876. Preference for commercial services.
Sec. 877. Treatment of commingled items purchased by contractors as 
          commercial items.
Sec. 878. Treatment of services provided by nontraditional contractors 
          as commercial items.
Sec. 879. Defense pilot program for authority to acquire innovative 
          commercial items, technologies, and services using general 
          solicitation competitive procedures.
Sec. 880. Pilot programs for authority to acquire innovative commercial 
          items using general solicitation competitive procedures.

                   Subtitle G--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 881. Greater integration of the national technology and industrial 
          base.
Sec. 882. Integration of civil and military roles in attaining national 
          technology and industrial base objectives.
Sec. 883. Pilot program for distribution support and services for weapon 
          systems contractors.
Sec. 884. Nontraditional and small contractor innovation prototyping 
          program.

                        Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 885. Report on bid protests.
Sec. 886. Review and report on indefinite delivery contracts.
Sec. 887.  Review and report on contractual flow-down provisions.
Sec. 888. Requirement and review relating to use of brand names or 
          brand-name or equivalent descriptions in solicitations.
Sec. 889. Inclusion of information on common grounds for sustaining bid 
          protests in annual Government Accountability Office reports to 
          Congress.
Sec. 890. Study and report on contracts awarded to minority-owned and 
          women-owned businesses.
Sec. 891. Authority to provide reimbursable auditing services to certain 
          non-Defense Agencies.
Sec. 892. Selection of service providers for auditing services and audit 
          readiness services.
Sec. 893. Amendments to contractor business system requirements.
Sec. 894. Improved management practices to reduce cost and improve 
          performance of certain Department of Defense organizations.
Sec. 895. Exemption from requirement for capital planning and investment 
          control for information technology equipment included as 
          integral part of a weapon or weapon system.
Sec. 896. Modifications to pilot program for streamlining awards for 
          innovative technology projects.
Sec. 897. Rapid prototyping funds for the military departments.
Sec. 898. Establishment of Panel on Department of Defense and AbilityOne 
          Contracting Oversight, Accountability, and Integrity; Defense 
          Acquisition University training.
Sec. 899. Coast Guard major acquisition programs.
Sec. 899A. Enhanced authority to acquire products and services produced 
          in Africa in support of certain activities.

       TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Organization of the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 902. Responsibilities and reporting of the Chief Information 
          Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 903. Maximum number of personnel in the Office of the Secretary of 
          Defense and other Department of Defense headquarters offices.
Sec. 904. Repeal of Financial Management Modernization Executive 
          Committee.

  Subtitle B--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                                Generally

Sec. 911. Organizational strategy for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 912. Policy, organization, and management goals and priorities of 
          the Secretary of Defense for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 913. Secretary of Defense delivery unit.
Sec. 914. Performance of civilian functions by military personnel.
Sec. 915. Repeal of requirements relating to efficiencies plan for the 
          civilian personnel workforce and service contractor workforce 
          of the Department of Defense.

     Subtitle C--Joint Chiefs of Staff and Combatant Command Matters

Sec. 921. Joint Chiefs of Staff and related combatant command matters.
Sec. 922. Organization of the Department of Defense for management of 
          special operations forces and special operations.
Sec. 923. Establishment of unified combatant command for cyber 
          operations.
Sec. 924. Assigned forces of the combatant commands.
Sec. 925. Modifications to the requirements process.
Sec. 926. Review of combatant command organization.

 Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 931. Qualifications for appointment of the Secretaries of the 
          military departments.
Sec. 932. Enhanced personnel management authorities for the Chief of the 
          National Guard Bureau.
Sec. 933. Reorganization and redesignation of Office of Family Policy 
          and Office of Community Support for Military Families with 
          Special Needs.
Sec. 934. Redesignation of Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
          Acquisition as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
          Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.

          Subtitle E--Strategies, Reports, and Related Matters

Sec. 941. National defense strategy.
Sec. 942. Commission on the National Defense Strategy for the United 
          States.
Sec. 943. Reform of the national military strategy.
Sec. 944. Form of annual national security strategy report.
Sec. 945. Modification to independent study of national security 
          strategy formulation process.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 951. Enhanced security programs for Department of Defense personnel 
          and innovation initiatives.
Sec. 952. Modification of authority of the Secretary of Defense relating 
          to protection of the Pentagon Reservation and other Department 
          of Defense facilities in the National Capital Region.
Sec. 953. Modifications to requirements for accounting for members of 
          the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees 
          listed as missing.
Sec. 954. Modifications to corrosion report.

                       TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Report on auditable financial statements.
Sec. 1003. Increased use of commercial data integration and analysis 
          products for the purpose of preparing financial statement 
          audits.
Sec. 1004. Sense of Congress on sequestration.
Sec. 1005. Requirement to transfer funds from Department of Defense 
          Acquisition Workforce Development Fund to the Treasury.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Codification and modification of authority to provide support 
          for counterdrug activities and activities to counter 
          transnational organized crime of civilian law enforcement 
          agencies.
Sec. 1012. Secretary of Defense review of curricula and program 
          structures of National Guard counterdrug schools.
Sec. 1013. Extension of authority to support unified counterdrug and 
          counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1014. Enhancement of information sharing and coordination of 
          military training between Department of Homeland Security and 
          Department of Defense.

                 Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Definition of short-term work with respect to overhaul, 
          repair, or maintenance of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. Warranty requirements for shipbuilding contracts.
Sec. 1023. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.
Sec. 1024. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
          Ticonderoga-class cruisers or dock landing ships.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Frequency of counterterrorism operations briefings.
Sec. 1032. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
          individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cub, to the United States.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities 
          in the United States to house detainees transferred from 
          United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release to 
          certain countries of individuals detained at United States 
          Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1035. Prohibition on use of funds for realignment of forces at or 
          closure of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1036. Congressional notification requirements for sensitive 
          military operations.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Expanded authority for transportation by the Department of 
          Defense of non-Department of Defense personnel and cargo.
Sec. 1042. Reduction in minimum number of Navy carrier air wings and 
          carrier air wing headquarters required to be maintained.
Sec. 1043. Modification to support for non-Federal development and 
          testing of material for chemical agent defense.
Sec. 1044. Protection of certain Federal spectrum operations.
Sec. 1045. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy maritime 
          mine countermeasures platforms.
Sec. 1046. Extension of authority of Secretary of Transportation to 
          issue non-premium aviation insurance.
Sec. 1047. Evaluation of Navy alternate combination cover and unisex 
          combination cover.
Sec. 1048. Independent evaluation of Department of Defense excess 
          property program.
Sec. 1049. Waiver of certain polygraph examination requirements.
Sec. 1050. Use of Transportation Worker Identification Credential to 
          gain access at Department of Defense installations.
Sec. 1051. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of 
          certain landmines and briefing on development of replacement 
          anti-personnel landmine munitions.
Sec. 1052. Transition of Air Force to operation of remotely piloted 
          aircraft by enlisted personnel.
Sec. 1053. Prohibition on divestment of Marine Corps Search and Rescue 
          Units.
Sec. 1054. Support for the Associate Director of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency for Military Affairs.
Sec. 1055. Notification on the provision of defense sensitive support.
Sec. 1056. Prohibition on enforcement of military commission rulings 
          preventing members of the Armed Forces from carrying out 
          otherwise lawful duties based on member sex.

                     Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1061. Temporary continuation of certain Department of Defense 
          reporting requirements.
Sec. 1062. Reports on programs managed under alternative compensatory 
          control measures in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1063. Matters for inclusion in report on designation of countries 
          for which rewards may be paid under Department of Defense 
          rewards program.
Sec. 1064. Annual reports on unfunded priorities of the Armed Forces and 
          the combatant commands and annual report on combatant command 
          requirements.
Sec. 1065. Management and reviews of electromagnetic spectrum.
Sec. 1066. Requirement for notice and reporting to Committees on Armed 
          Services on certain expenditures of funds by Defense 
          Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 1067. Congressional notification of biological select agent and 
          toxin theft, loss, or release involving the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1068. Report on service-provided support and enabling capabilities 
          to United States special operations forces.
Sec. 1069. Report on citizen security responsibilities in the Northern 
          Triangle of Central America.
Sec. 1070. Report on counterproliferation activities and programs.
Sec. 1071. Report on testing and integration of minehunting sonar 
          systems to improve Littoral Combat Ship minehunting 
          capabilities.
Sec. 1072. Quarterly reports on parachute jumps conducted at Fort Bragg 
          and Pope Army Airfield and Air Force support for such jumps.
Sec. 1073. Study on military helicopter noise.
Sec. 1074. Independent review of United States military strategy and 
          force posture in the United States Pacific Command area of 
          responsibility.
Sec. 1075. Assessment of the joint ground forces of the Armed Forces.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1082. Increase in maximum amount available for equipment, services, 
          and supplies provided for humanitarian demining assistance.
Sec. 1083. Liquidation of unpaid credits accrued as a result of 
          transactions under a cross-servicing agreement.
Sec. 1084. Modification of requirements relating to management of 
          military technicians.
Sec. 1085. Streamlining of the National Security Council.
Sec. 1086. National biodefense strategy.
Sec. 1087. Global Cultural Knowledge Network.
Sec. 1088. Sense of Congress regarding Connecticut's Submarine Century.
Sec. 1089. Sense of Congress regarding the reporting of the MV-22 mishap 
          in Marana, Arizona, on April 8, 2000.
Sec. 1090. Cost of Wars.
Sec. 1091. Reconnaissance Strike Group matters.
Sec. 1092. Border security metrics.
Sec. 1093. Program to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Tomb of 
          the Unknown Soldier.
Sec. 1094. Sense of Congress regarding the OCONUS basing of the KC-46A 
          aircraft.
Sec. 1095. Designation of a Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Port.
Sec. 1096. Recovery of excess rifles, ammunition, and parts granted to 
          foreign countries and transfer to certain persons.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

           Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters Generally

Sec. 1101. Civilian personnel management.
Sec. 1102. Repeal of requirement for annual strategic workforce plan for 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1103. Training for employment personnel of Department of Defense on 
          matters relating to authorities for recruitment and retention 
          at United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1104. Public-private talent exchange.
Sec. 1105. Temporary and term appointments in the competitive service in 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1106. Direct-hire authority for the Department of Defense for post-
          secondary students and recent graduates.
Sec. 1107. Temporary increase in maximum amount of voluntary separation 
          incentive pay authorized for civilian employees of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1108. Extension of rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy 
          employees performing work aboard or dockside in support of the 
          nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1109. Limitation on number of DOD SES positions.
Sec. 1110. Direct hire authority for financial management experts in the 
          Department of Defense workforce.
Sec. 1111. Repeal of certain basis for appointment of a retired member 
          of the Armed Forces to Department of Defense position within 
          180 days of retirement.

 Subtitle B--Department of Defense Science and Technology Laboratories 
                           and Related Matters

Sec. 1121. Permanent personnel management authority for the Department 
          of Defense for experts in science and engineering.
Sec. 1122. Codification and modification of certain authorities for 
          certain positions at Department of Defense research and 
          engineering laboratories.
Sec. 1123. Modification to information technology personnel exchange 
          program.
Sec. 1124. Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain research 
          and technology positions in the science and technology 
          reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1125. Temporary direct hire authority for domestic defense 
          industrial base facilities, the Major Range and Test 
          Facilities Base, and the Office of the Director of Operational 
          Test and Evaluation.

                   Subtitle C--Governmentwide Matters

Sec. 1131. Elimination of two-year eligibility limitation for 
          noncompetitive appointment of spouses of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 1132. Temporary personnel flexibilities for domestic defense 
          industrial base facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities 
          Base civilian personnel.
Sec. 1133. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on 
          official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1134. Advance payments for employees relocating within the United 
          States and its territories.
Sec. 1135. Eligibility of employees in a time-limited appointment to 
          compete for a permanent appointment at any Federal agency.
Sec. 1136.  Review of official personnel file of former Federal 
          employees before rehiring.
Sec. 1137. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1138. Administrative leave.
Sec. 1139. Direct hiring for Federal wage schedule employees.
Sec. 1140. Record of investigation of personnel action in separated 
          employee's official personnel file.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition forces 
          supporting certain United States military operations.
Sec. 1202. Special Defense Acquisition Fund matters.
Sec. 1203. Codification of authority for support of special operations 
          to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1204. Independent evaluation of strategic framework for Department 
          of Defense security cooperation.
Sec. 1205. Sense of Congress regarding an assessment, monitoring, and 
          evaluation framework for security cooperation.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
          Program.
Sec. 1212. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
          produced in countries along a major route of supply to 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of authority to transfer defense 
          articles and provide defense services to the military and 
          security forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Special immigrant status for certain Afghans.
Sec. 1215. Modification to semiannual report on enhancing security and 
          stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Prohibition on use of funds for certain programs and projects 
          of the Department of Defense in Afghanistan that cannot be 
          safely accessed by United States Government personnel.
Sec. 1217. Improvement of oversight of United States Government efforts 
          in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1218. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.

          Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Modification and extension of authority to provide assistance 
          to the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1222. Modification and extension of authority to provide assistance 
          to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support operations 
          and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Limitation on provision of man-portable air defense systems 
          to the vetted Syrian opposition during fiscal year 2017.
Sec. 1225. Modification of annual report on military power of Iran.
Sec. 1226. Quarterly report on confirmed ballistic missile launches from 
          Iran.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Military response options to Russian Federation violation of 
          INF Treaty.
Sec. 1232. Limitation on military cooperation between the United States 
          and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1233. Extension and modification of authority on training for 
          Eastern European national military forces in the course of 
          multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1234. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
          of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1235. Annual report on military and security developments involving 
          the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1236. Limitation on use of funds to vote to approve or otherwise 
          adopt any implementing decision of the Open Skies Consultative 
          Commission and related requirements.
Sec. 1237. Extension and enhancement of Ukraine Security Assistance 
          Initiative.
Sec. 1238. Reports on INF Treaty and Open Skies Treaty.

    Subtitle E--Reform of Department of Defense Security Cooperation

Sec. 1241. Enactment of new chapter for defense security cooperation.
Sec. 1242. Military-to-military exchanges.
Sec. 1243. Consolidation and revision of authorities for payment of 
          personnel expenses necessary for theater security cooperation.
Sec. 1244. Transfer and revision of certain authorities on payment of 
          expenses of training and exercises with friendly foreign 
          forces.
Sec. 1245. Transfer and revision of authority to provide operational 
          support to forces of friendly foreign countries.
Sec. 1246. Department of Defense State Partnership Program.
Sec. 1247. Transfer of authority on Regional Defense Combating Terrorism 
          Fellowship Program.
Sec. 1248. Consolidation of authorities for service academy 
          international engagement.
Sec. 1249. Consolidated annual budget for security cooperation programs 
          and activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1250. Department of Defense security cooperation workforce 
          development.
Sec. 1251. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 1252. Quadrennial review of security sector assistance programs and 
          authorities of the United States Government.
Sec. 1253. Other conforming amendments and authority for administration.

                   Subtitle F--Human Rights Sanctions

Sec. 1261. Short title.
Sec. 1262. Definitions.
Sec. 1263. Authorization of imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 1264. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 1265. Sunset.

                    Subtitle G--Miscellaneous Reports

Sec. 1271. Modification of annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1272. Monitoring and evaluation of overseas humanitarian, disaster, 
          and civic aid programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1273. Strategy for United States defense interests in Africa.
Sec. 1274. Report on the potential for cooperation between the United 
          States and Israel on directed energy capabilities.
Sec. 1275. Annual update of Department of Defense Freedom of Navigation 
          Report.
Sec. 1276. Assessment of proliferation of certain remotely piloted 
          aircraft systems.

                        Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1281. Enhancement of interagency support during contingency 
          operations and transition periods.
Sec. 1282. Two-year extension and modification of authorization of non-
          conventional assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1283. Authority to destroy certain specified World War II-era 
          United States-origin chemical munitions located on San Jose 
          Island, Republic of Panama.
Sec. 1284. Sense of Congress on military exchanges between the United 
          States and Taiwan.
Sec. 1285. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
          Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1286. Prohibition on use of funds to invite, assist, or otherwise 
          assure the participation of Cuba in certain joint or 
          multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1287. Global Engagement Center.
Sec. 1288. Modification of United States International Broadcasting Act 
          of 1994.
Sec. 1289. Redesignation of South China Sea Initiative.
Sec. 1290. Measures against persons involved in activities that violate 
          arms control treaties or agreements with the United States.
Sec. 1291. Agreements with foreign governments to develop land-based 
          water resources in support of and in preparation for 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 1292. Enhancing defense and security cooperation with India.
Sec. 1293. Coordination of efforts to develop free trade agreements with 
          sub-Saharan African countries.
Sec. 1294. Extension and expansion of authority to support border 
          security operations of certain foreign countries.
Sec. 1295. Modification and clarification of United States-Israel anti-
          tunnel cooperation authority.
Sec. 1296. Maintenance of prohibition on procurement by Department of 
          Defense of People's Republic of China-origin items that meet 
          the definition of goods and services controlled as munitions 
          items when moved to the ``600 series'' of the Commerce Control 
          List.
Sec. 1297. International sales process improvements.
Sec. 1298. Efforts to end modern slavery.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.
Sec. 1303. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat 
          Reduction in People's Republic of China.

                     TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1411. Authority to dispose of certain materials from and to acquire 
          additional materials for the National Defense Stockpile.
Sec. 1412. National Defense Stockpile matters.

              Subtitle C--Chemical Demilitarization Matters

Sec. 1421. National Academies of Sciences study on conventional 
          munitions demilitarization alternative technologies.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1431. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care 
          Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1432. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
          appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.

                      Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1511. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1512. Special transfer authority.

           Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1521. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1522. Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1523. Extension of authority to use Joint Improvised Explosive 
          Device Defeat Fund for training of foreign security forces to 
          defeat improvised explosive devices.
Sec. 1524. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1525. Extension and modification of authorities on Counterterrorism 
          Partnerships Fund.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Repeal of provision permitting the use of rocket engines from 
          the Russian Federation for the evolved expendable launch 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 1602. Exception to the prohibition on contracting with Russian 
          suppliers of rocket engines for the evolved expendable launch 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 1603. Rocket propulsion system to replace RD-180.
Sec. 1604. Plan for use of allied launch vehicles.
Sec. 1605. Analysis of alternatives for wide-band communications.
Sec. 1606. Modification of pilot program for acquisition of commercial 
          satellite communication services.
Sec. 1607. Space-based environmental monitoring.
Sec. 1608. Prohibition on use of certain non-allied positioning, 
          navigation, and timing systems.
Sec. 1609. Limitation of availability of funds for the Joint Space 
          Operations Center Mission System.
Sec. 1610. Limitations on availability of funds for the Global 
          Positioning System Next Generation Operational Control System.
Sec. 1611. Availability of funds for certain secure voice conferencing 
          capabilities.
Sec. 1612. Space-based infrared system and advanced extremely high 
          frequency program.
Sec. 1613. Pilot program on commercial weather data.
Sec. 1614. Plans on transfer of acquisition and funding authority of 
          certain weather missions to National Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 1615. Five-year plan for Joint Interagency Combined Space 
          Operations Center.
Sec. 1616. Organization and management of national security space 
          activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1617. Review of charter of Operationally Responsive Space Program 
          Office.
Sec. 1618. Backup and complementary positioning, navigation, and timing 
          capabilities of Global Positioning System.
Sec. 1619. Report on use of spacecraft assets of the space-based 
          infrared system wide-field-of-view program.
Sec. 1620. Provision of certain information to Government Accountability 
          Office by National Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 1621. Cost-benefit analysis of commercial use of excess ballistic 
          missile solid rocket motors.
Sec. 1622. Independent assessment of Global Positioning System Next 
          Generation Operational Control System.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1631. Report on United States Central Command Intelligence Fusion 
          Center.
Sec. 1632. Prohibition on availability of funds for certain relocation 
          activities for NATO Intelligence Fusion Cell.
Sec. 1633. Survey and review of Defense Intelligence Enterprise.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1641. Special emergency procurement authority to facilitate the 
          defense against or recovery from a cyber attack.
Sec. 1642. Limitation on termination of dual-hat arrangement for 
          Commander of the United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1643. Cyber mission forces matters.
Sec. 1644. Requirement to enter into agreements relating to use of cyber 
          opposition forces.
Sec. 1645. Cyber protection support for Department of Defense personnel 
          in positions highly vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 1646. Limitation on full deployment of joint regional security 
          stacks.
Sec. 1647. Advisory committee on industrial security and industrial base 
          policy.
Sec. 1648. Change in name of National Defense University's Information 
          Resources Management College to College of Information and 
          Cyberspace.
Sec. 1649. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of F-35 aircraft and 
          support systems.
Sec. 1650. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of Department of Defense 
          critical infrastructure.
Sec. 1651. Strategy to incorporate Army reserve component cyber 
          protection teams into Department of Defense cyber mission 
          force.
Sec. 1652. Strategic Plan for the Defense Information Systems Agency.
Sec. 1653. Plan for information security continuous monitoring 
          capability and comply-to-connect policy; limitation on 
          software licensing.
Sec. 1654. Reports on deterrence of adversaries in cyberspace.
Sec. 1655. Sense of Congress on cyber resiliency of the networks and 
          communications systems of the National Guard.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1661. Improvements to Council on Oversight of National Leadership 
          Command, Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 1662. Treatment of certain sensitive information by State and local 
          governments.
Sec. 1663. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
          ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1664. Prohibition on availability of funds for mobile variant of 
          ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1665. Limitation on availability of funds for extension of New 
          START Treaty.
Sec. 1666. Certifications regarding integrated tactical warning and 
          attack assessment mission of the Air Force.
Sec. 1667. Matters relating to intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1668. Requests for forces to meet security requirements for land-
          based nuclear forces.
Sec. 1669. Report on Russian and Chinese political and military 
          leadership survivability, command and control, and continuity 
          of government programs and activities.
Sec. 1670. Review by Comptroller General of the United States of 
          recommendations relating to nuclear enterprise of Department 
          of Defense.
Sec. 1671. Sense of Congress on nuclear deterrence.
Sec. 1672. Sense of Congress on importance of independent nuclear 
          deterrent of United Kingdom.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1681. National missile defense policy.
Sec. 1682. Extensions of prohibitions relating to missile defense 
          information and systems.
Sec. 1683. Non-terrestrial missile defense intercept and defeat 
          capability for the ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1684. Review of the missile defeat policy and strategy of the 
          United States.
Sec. 1685. Maximizing Aegis Ashore capability and developing medium 
          range discrimination radar.
Sec. 1686. Technical authority for integrated air and missile defense 
          activities and programs.
Sec. 1687. Hypersonic defense capability development.
Sec. 1688. Conventional Prompt Global Strike weapons system.
Sec. 1689. Required testing by Missile Defense Agency of ground-based 
          midcourse defense element of ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1690. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
          cooperative missile defense program codevelopment and 
          coproduction.
Sec. 1691. Limitations on availability of funds for lower tier air and 
          missile defense capability of the Army.
Sec. 1692. Pilot program on loss of unclassified, controlled technical 
          information.
Sec. 1693. Plan for procurement of medium-range discrimination radar to 
          improve homeland missile defense.
Sec. 1694. Review of Missile Defense Agency budget submissions for 
          ground-based midcourse defense and evaluation of alternative 
          ground-based interceptor deployments.
Sec. 1695. Semiannual notifications on missile defense tests and costs.
Sec. 1696. Reports on unfunded priorities of the Missile Defense Agency.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1697. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
          aircraft.
Sec. 1698. Harmful interference to Department of Defense Global 
          Positioning System.

          TITLE XVII--GUAM WORLD WAR II LOYALTY RECOGNITION ACT

Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. Recognition of the suffering and loyalty of the residents of 
          Guam.
Sec. 1703. Guam World War II Claims Fund.
Sec. 1704. Payments for Guam World War II claims.
Sec. 1705. Adjudication.
Sec. 1706. Grants program to memorialize the occupation of Guam during 
          World War II.
Sec. 1707. Authorization of appropriations.

       TITLE XVIII--MATTERS RELATING TO SMALL BUSINESS PROCUREMENT

   Subtitle A--Improving Transparency and Clarity for Small Businesses

Sec. 1801. Plain language rewrite of requirements for small business 
          procurements.
Sec. 1802. Transparency in small business goals.

      Subtitle B--Clarifying the Roles of Small Business Advocates

Sec. 1811. Scope of review by procurement center representatives.
Sec. 1812. Duties of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
          Utilization.
Sec. 1813. Improving contractor compliance.
Sec. 1814. Improving education on small business regulations.

       Subtitle C--Strengthening Opportunities for Competition in 
                             Subcontracting

Sec. 1821. Good faith in subcontracting.
Sec. 1822. Pilot program to provide opportunities for qualified 
          subcontractors to obtain past performance ratings.
Sec. 1823. Amendments to the Mentor-Protege Program of the Department of 
          Defense.

                  Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 1831. Improvements to size standards for small agricultural 
          producers.
Sec. 1832. Uniformity in service-disabled veteran definitions.
Sec. 1833. Office of Hearings and Appeals.
Sec. 1834. Extension of SBIR and STTR programs.
Sec. 1835. Issuance of guidance on small business matters.

      Subtitle E--Improving Cyber Preparedness for Small Businesses

Sec. 1841. Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy and 
          outreach.
Sec. 1842. Role of small business development centers in cybersecurity 
          and preparedness.
Sec. 1843. Additional cybersecurity assistance for small business 
          development centers.
Sec. 1844. Prohibition on additional funds.

         TITLE XIX--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COORDINATION

Sec. 1901. Department of Homeland Security coordination.
Sec. 1902. Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans of the Department of 
          Homeland Security.
Sec. 1903. Management and execution.
Sec. 1904. Chief Human Capital Officer of the Department of Homeland 
          Security.
Sec. 1905. Department of Homeland Security transparency.
Sec. 1906. Transparency in research and development.
Sec. 1907. United States Government review of certain foreign fighters.
Sec. 1908. National strategy to combat terrorist travel.
Sec. 1909. National Operations Center.
Sec. 1910. Department of Homeland Security strategy for international 
          programs.
Sec. 1911. State and high-risk urban area working groups.
Sec. 1912. Cybersecurity strategy for the Department of Homeland 
          Security.
Sec. 1913. EMP and GMD planning, research and development, and 
          protection and preparedness.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
          specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.

                  TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2105. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2207. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.
 Sec. 2208. Status of ``net negative'' policy regarding Navy acreage on 
          Guam.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2016 project.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2013 
          project.
Sec. 2307. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2014 
          project.
Sec. 2308. Restriction on acquisition of property in Northern Mariana 
          Islands.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.

                    TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

   Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                 Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.

             TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 project.
Sec. 2613. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2016 project.
Sec. 2614. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2013 
          project.
Sec. 2615. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional Base Realignment and 
          Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

  Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

Sec. 2801. Modification of criteria for treatment of laboratory 
          revitalization projects as minor military construction 
          projects.
Sec. 2802. Classification of facility conversion projects as repair 
          projects.
Sec. 2803. Limited authority for scope of work increase.
Sec. 2804. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
          and maintenance funds for construction projects outside the 
          United States.
Sec. 2805. Authority to expand energy conservation construction program 
          to include energy resiliency projects.
Sec. 2806. Additional entities eligible for participation in defense 
          laboratory modernization pilot program.
Sec. 2807. Extension of temporary authority for acceptance and use of 
          contributions for certain construction, maintenance, and 
          repair projects mutually beneficial to the Department of 
          Defense and Kuwait military forces.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Acceptance of military construction projects as payments in-
          kind and in-kind contributions.
Sec. 2812. Allotment of space and provision of services to WIC offices 
          operating on military installations.
 Sec. 2813. Sense of Congress regarding inclusion of stormwater systems 
          and components within the meaning of ``wastewater system'' 
          under the Department of Defense authority for conveyance of 
          utility systems.
Sec. 2814. Assessment of public schools on Department of Defense 
          installations.
Sec. 2815. Prior certification required for use of Department of Defense 
          facilities by other Federal agencies for temporary housing 
          support.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2821. Land conveyance, High Frequency Active Auroral Research 
          Program facility and adjacent property, Gakona, Alaska.
Sec. 2822. Land conveyance, Campion Air Force Radar Station, Galena, 
          Alaska.
Sec. 2823. Lease, Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska.
Sec. 2824. Transfer of administrative jurisdictions, Navajo Army Depot, 
          Arizona.
Sec. 2825. Exchange of property interests, San Diego Unified Port 
          District, California.
Sec. 2826. Release of property interests retained in connection with 
          land conveyance, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida.
Sec. 2827. Land exchange, Fort Hood, Texas.
Sec. 2828. Land Conveyance, P-36 Warehouse, Colbern United States Army 
          Reserve Center, Laredo, Texas.
Sec. 2829. Land conveyance, St. George National Guard Armory, St. 
          George, Utah.
Sec. 2829A. Land acquisitions, Arlington County, Virginia.
Sec. 2829B. Release of restrictions, Richland Innovation Center, 
          Richland, Washington.
Sec. 2829C. Modification of land conveyance, Rocky Mountain Arsenal 
          National Wildlife Refuge.
Sec. 2829D. Closure of St. Marys Airport.
Sec. 2829E. Transfer of Fort Belvoir Mark Center Campus from the 
          Secretary of the Army to the Secretary of Defense and 
          applicability of certain provisions of law relating to the 
          Pentagon Reservation.
Sec. 2829F. Return of certain lands at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, to the 
          original inhabitants.

         Subtitle D--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2831. Cyber Center for Education and Innovation-Home of the 
          National Cryptologic Museum.
Sec. 2832. Renaming site of the Dayton Aviation Heritage National 
          Historical Park, Ohio.
Sec. 2833. Women's military service memorials and museums.
Sec. 2834. Petersburg National Battlefield boundary modification.

               Subtitle E--Designations and Other Matters

Sec. 2841. Designation of portion of Moffett Federal Airfield, 
          California, as Moffett Air National Guard Base.
Sec. 2842. Redesignation of Mike O'Callaghan Federal Medical Center.
Sec. 2843. Replenishment of Sierra Vista subwatershed regional aquifer, 
          Arizona.
Sec. 2844. Limited exceptions to restriction on development of public 
          infrastructure in connection with realignment of Marine Corps 
          forces in Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 2845. Duration of withdrawal and reservation of public land, Naval 
          Air Weapons Station China Lake, California.

    TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorization of appropriations.

       TITLE XXX--UTAH TEST AND TRAINING RANGE AND RELATED MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Authorization for Temporary Closure of Certain Public Land 
              Adjacent to the Utah Test and Training Range

Sec. 3001. Definitions.
Sec. 3002. Memorandum of agreement.
Sec. 3003. Temporary closures.
Sec. 3004. Liability.
Sec. 3005. Community resource advisory group.
Sec. 3006. Savings clauses.

 Subtitle B--Bureau of Land Management Land Exchange With State of Utah

Sec. 3011. Definitions.
Sec. 3012. Exchange of Federal land and non-Federal land.
Sec. 3013. Status and management of non-Federal land acquired by the 
          United States.
Sec. 3014. Hazardous substances.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

       TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

        Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Independent acquisition project reviews of capital assets 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 3112. Protection of certain nuclear facilities and assets from 
          unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 3113. Common financial reporting system for the nuclear security 
          enterprise.
Sec. 3114. Rough estimate of total life cycle cost of tank waste cleanup 
          at Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Sec. 3115. Annual certification of shipments to Waste Isolation Pilot 
          Plant.
Sec. 3116. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3117. Design basis threat.
Sec. 3118. Industry best practices in operations at National Nuclear 
          Security Administration facilities and sites.
Sec. 3119. Pilot program on unavailability for overhead costs of amounts 
          specified for laboratory-directed research and development.
Sec. 3120. Research and development of advanced naval nuclear fuel 
          system based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3121. Increase in certain limitations applicable to funds for 
          conceptual and construction design of the Department of 
          Energy.
Sec. 3122. Prohibition on availability of funds for programs in Russian 
          Federation.
Sec. 3123. Limitation on availability of funds for Federal salaries and 
          expenses.
Sec. 3124. Limitation on availability of funds for defense environmental 
          cleanup program direction.
Sec. 3125. Limitation on availability of funds for acceleration of 
          nuclear weapons dismantlement.

                      Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Independent assessment of technology development under 
          defense environmental cleanup program.
Sec. 3132. Updated plan for verification and monitoring of proliferation 
          of nuclear weapons and fissile material.
Sec. 3133. Report on the use of highly-enriched uranium for naval 
          reactors.
Sec. 3134. Analysis of approaches for supplemental treatment of low-
          activity waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Sec. 3135. Clarification of annual report and certification on status of 
          security of atomic energy defense facilities.
Sec. 3136. Report on service support contracts and authority for 
          appointment of certain personnel.
Sec. 3137. Elimination of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 3138. Report on United States nuclear deterrence.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.

                  TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

                      TITLE XXXV--MARITIME MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Maritime Administration, Coast Guard, and Shipping Matters

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Authority to extend certain age restrictions relating to 
          vessels in the Maritime Security Fleet.
Sec. 3503. Corrections to provisions enacted by Coast Guard 
          Authorization Acts.
Sec. 3504. Status of National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels.
Sec. 3505. NDRF national security multi-mission vessel.
Sec. 3506. Superintendent of United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3507. Use of National Defense Reserve Fleet scrapping proceeds.
Sec. 3508. Floating dry docks.
Sec. 3509. Transportation worker identification credentials for 
          individuals undergoing separation, discharge, or release from 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 3510. Actions to address sexual harassment and sexual assault at 
          the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3511. Sexual assault response coordinators and sexual assault 
          victim advocates.
Sec. 3512. Report from the Department of Transportation Inspector 
          General.
Sec. 3513. Sexual assault prevention and response working group.
Sec. 3514. Sea Year compliance.
Sec. 3515. State maritime academy physical standards and reporting.
Sec. 3516. Appointments.
Sec. 3517. Maritime workforce working group.
Sec. 3518. Maritime extreme weather task force.
Sec. 3519. Workforce plans and onboarding policies.
Sec. 3520. Drug and alcohol policy.
Sec. 3521. Vessel transfers.
Sec. 3522. Clarifying amendment; continuation boards.
Sec. 3523. Polar icebreaker recapitalization plan.
Sec. 3524. GAO report on icebreaking capability in United States.

           Subtitle B--Pribilof Islands Transition Completion

Sec. 3531. Short title.
Sec. 3532. Conveyance of property.
Sec. 3533. Transfer, use, and disposal of tract 43.

  Subtitle C--Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention at the National 
                 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

Sec. 3541. Actions to address sexual harassment at National Oceanic and 
          Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 3542. Actions to address sexual assault at National Oceanic and 
          Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 3543. Rights of the victim of a sexual assault.
Sec. 3544. Change of station.
Sec. 3545. Applicability of policies to crews of vessels secured by 
          National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration under 
          contract.
Sec. 3546. Annual report on sexual assaults in the National Oceanic and 
          Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 3547. Sexual assault defined.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4103. Procurement for overseas contingency operations for base 
          requirements.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 4203. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations for base requirements.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency operations 
          for base requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4403. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations for 
          base requirements.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4503. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations for 
          base requirements.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4603. Military construction for overseas contingency operations for 
          base requirements.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.

           DIVISION E--UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE REFORM

Sec. 5001. Short title.

                      TITLE LI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 5101. Definitions.
Sec. 5102. Clarification of persons subject to UCMJ while on inactive-
          duty training.
Sec. 5103. Staff judge advocate disqualification due to prior 
          involvement in case.
Sec. 5104. Conforming amendment relating to military magistrates.
Sec. 5105. Rights of victim.

                  TITLE LII--APPREHENSION AND RESTRAINT

Sec. 5121. Restraint of persons charged.
Sec. 5122. Modification of prohibition of confinement of members of the 
          Armed Forces with enemy prisoners and certain others.

                   TITLE LIII--NON-JUDICIAL PUNISHMENT

Sec. 5141. Modification of confinement as non-judicial punishment.

                  TITLE LIV--COURT-MARTIAL JURISDICTION

Sec. 5161. Courts-martial classified.
Sec. 5162. Jurisdiction of general courts-martial.
Sec. 5163. Jurisdiction of special courts-martial.
Sec. 5164. Summary court-martial as non-criminal forum.

                 TITLE LV--COMPOSITION OF COURTS-MARTIAL

Sec. 5181. Technical amendment relating to persons authorized to convene 
          general courts-martial.
Sec. 5182. Who may serve on courts-martial and related matters.
Sec. 5183. Number of court-martial members in capital cases.
Sec. 5184. Detailing, qualifications, and other matters relating to 
          military judges.
Sec. 5185. Military magistrates.
Sec. 5186. Qualifications of trial counsel and defense counsel.
Sec. 5187. Assembly and impaneling of members and related matters.

                     TITLE LVI--PRE-TRIAL PROCEDURE

Sec. 5201. Charges and specifications.
Sec. 5202. Certain proceedings conducted before referral.
Sec. 5203. Preliminary hearing required before referral to general 
          court-martial.
Sec. 5204. Disposition guidance.
Sec. 5205. Advice to convening authority before referral for trial.
Sec. 5206. Service of charges and commencement of trial.

                       TITLE LVII--TRIAL PROCEDURE

Sec. 5221. Duties of assistant defense counsel.
Sec. 5222. Sessions.
Sec. 5223. Technical amendment relating to continuances.
Sec. 5224. Conforming amendments relating to challenges.
Sec. 5225. Statute of limitations.
Sec. 5226. Former jeopardy.
Sec. 5227. Pleas of the accused.
Sec. 5228. Subpoena and other process.
Sec. 5229. Refusal of person not subject to UCMJ to appear, testify, or 
          produce evidence.
Sec. 5230. Contempt.
Sec. 5231. Depositions.
Sec. 5232. Admissibility of sworn testimony by audiotape or videotape 
          from records of courts of inquiry.
Sec. 5233. Conforming amendment relating to defense of lack of mental 
          responsibility.
Sec. 5234. Voting and rulings.
Sec. 5235. Votes required for conviction, sentencing, and other matters.
Sec. 5236. Findings and sentencing.
Sec. 5237. Plea agreements.
Sec. 5238. Record of trial.

                         TITLE LVIII--SENTENCES

Sec. 5301. Sentencing.
Sec. 5302. Effective date of sentences.
Sec. 5303. Sentence of reduction in enlisted grade.

      TITLE LIX--POST-TRIAL PROCEDURE AND REVIEW OF COURTS-MARTIAL

Sec. 5321. Post-trial processing in general and special courts-martial.
Sec. 5322. Limited authority to act on sentence in specified post-trial 
          circumstances.
Sec. 5323. Post-trial actions in summary courts-martial and certain 
          general and special courts-martial.
Sec. 5324. Entry of judgment.
Sec. 5325. Waiver of right to appeal and withdrawal of appeal.
Sec. 5326. Appeal by the United States.
Sec. 5327. Rehearings.
Sec. 5328. Judge advocate review of finding of guilty in summary court-
          martial.
Sec. 5329. Transmittal and review of records.
Sec. 5330. Courts of Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 5331. Review by Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 5332. Supreme Court review.
Sec. 5333. Review by Judge Advocate General.
Sec. 5334. Appellate defense counsel in death penalty cases.
Sec. 5335. Authority for hearing on vacation of suspension of sentence 
          to be conducted by qualified judge advocate.
Sec. 5336. Extension of time for petition for new trial.
Sec. 5337. Restoration.
Sec. 5338. Leave requirements pending review of certain court-martial 
          convictions.

                       TITLE LX--PUNITIVE ARTICLES

Sec. 5401. Reorganization of punitive articles.
Sec. 5402. Conviction of offense charged, lesser included offenses, and 
          attempts.
Sec. 5403. Soliciting commission of offenses.
Sec. 5404. Malingering.
Sec. 5405. Breach of medical quarantine.
Sec. 5406. Missing movement; jumping from vessel.
Sec. 5407. Offenses against correctional custody and restriction.
Sec. 5408. Disrespect toward superior commissioned officer; assault of 
          superior commissioned officer.
Sec. 5409. Willfully disobeying superior commissioned officer.
Sec. 5410. Prohibited activities with military recruit or trainee by 
          person in position of special trust.
Sec. 5411. Offenses by sentinel or lookout.
Sec. 5412. Disrespect toward sentinel or lookout.
Sec. 5413. Release of prisoner without authority; drinking with 
          prisoner.
Sec. 5414. Penalty for acting as a spy.
Sec. 5415. Public records offenses.
Sec. 5416. False or unauthorized pass offenses.
Sec. 5417. Impersonation offenses.
Sec. 5418. Insignia offenses.
Sec. 5419. False official statements; false swearing.
Sec. 5420. Parole violation.
Sec. 5421. Wrongful taking, opening, etc. of mail matter.
Sec. 5422. Improper hazarding of vessel or aircraft.
Sec. 5423. Leaving scene of vehicle accident.
Sec. 5424. Drunkenness and other incapacitation offenses.
Sec. 5425. Lower blood alcohol content limits for conviction of drunken 
          or reckless operation of vehicle, aircraft, or vessel.
Sec. 5426. Endangerment offenses.
Sec. 5427. Communicating threats.
Sec. 5428. Technical amendment relating to murder.
Sec. 5429. Child endangerment.
Sec. 5430. Rape and sexual assault offenses.
Sec. 5431. Deposit of obscene matter in the mail.
Sec. 5432. Fraudulent use of credit cards, debit cards, and other access 
          devices.
Sec. 5433. False pretenses to obtain services.
Sec. 5434. Robbery.
Sec. 5435. Receiving stolen property.
Sec. 5436. Offenses concerning Government computers.
Sec. 5437. Bribery.
Sec. 5438. Graft.
Sec. 5439. Kidnapping.
Sec. 5440. Arson; burning property with intent to defraud.
Sec. 5441. Assault.
Sec. 5442. Burglary and unlawful entry.
Sec. 5443. Stalking.
Sec. 5444. Subornation of perjury.
Sec. 5445. Obstructing justice.
Sec. 5446. Misprision of serious offense.
Sec. 5447. Wrongful refusal to testify.
Sec. 5448. Prevention of authorized seizure of property.
Sec. 5449. Wrongful interference with adverse administrative proceeding.
Sec. 5450. Retaliation.
Sec. 5451. Extraterritorial application of certain offenses.
Sec. 5452. Table of sections.

                   TITLE LXI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 5501. Technical amendments relating to courts of inquiry.
Sec. 5502. Technical amendment to Article 136.
Sec. 5503. Articles of Uniform Code of Military Justice to be explained 
          to officers upon commissioning.
Sec. 5504. Military justice case management; data collection and 
          accessibility.

      TITLE LXII--MILITARY JUSTICE REVIEW PANEL AND ANNUAL REPORTS

Sec. 5521. Military Justice Review Panel.
Sec. 5522. Annual reports.

         TITLE LXIII--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND EFFECTIVE DATES

Sec. 5541. Amendments to UCMJ subchapter tables of sections.
Sec. 5542. Effective dates.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.
    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.
SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS
                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Multiyear procurement authority for AH-64E Apache helicopters.
Sec. 112. Multiyear procurement authority for UH-60M and HH-60M Black 
          Hawk helicopters.
Sec. 113. Distributed Common Ground System-Army increment 1.
Sec. 114. Assessment of certain capabilities of the Department of the 
          Army.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Determination of vessel delivery dates.
Sec. 122. Incremental funding for detail design and construction of LHA 
          replacement ship designated LHA 8.
Sec. 123. Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 124. Limitation on use of sole-source shipbuilding contracts for 
          certain vessels.
Sec. 125. Limitation on availability of funds for the Advanced Arresting 
          Gear Program.
Sec. 126. Limitation on availability of funds for procurement of U.S.S. 
          Enterprise (CVN-80).
Sec. 127. Sense of Congress on aircraft carrier procurement schedules.
Sec. 128. Report on P-8 Poseidon aircraft.
Sec. 129. Design and construction of replacement dock landing ship 
          designated LX(R) or amphibious transport dock designated LPD-
          29.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 131. EC-130H Compass Call recapitalization program.
Sec. 132. Repeal of requirement to preserve certain retired C-5 
          aircraft.
Sec. 133. Repeal of requirement to preserve F-117 aircraft in recallable 
          condition.
Sec. 134. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of A-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 135. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of A-10 
          aircraft in storage status.
Sec. 136. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of Joint 
          Surveillance Target Attack Radar System aircraft.
Sec. 137. Elimination of annual report on aircraft inventory.

        Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 141. Standardization of 5.56mm rifle ammunition.
Sec. 142. Fire suppressant and fuel containment standards for certain 
          vehicles.
Sec. 143. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of certain 
          cluster munitions.
Sec. 144. Report on Department of Defense munitions strategy for the 
          combatant commands.
Sec. 145. Modifications to reporting on use of combat mission 
          requirements funds.
Sec. 146. Report on alternative management structures for the F-35 joint 
          strike fighter program.
Sec. 147. Comptroller General review of F-35 Lightning II aircraft 
          sustainment support.
Sec. 148. Briefing on acquisition strategy for Ground Mobility Vehicle.
Sec. 149. Study and report on optimal mix of aircraft capabilities for 
          the Armed Forces.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

    SEC. 111. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR AH-64E APACHE 
      HELICOPTERS.
    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Army may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 
2017 program year, for the procurement of AH-64E Apache helicopters.
    (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2017 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
    SEC. 112. MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR UH-60M AND HH-60M 
      BLACK HAWK HELICOPTERS.
    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement.--Subject to section 2306b 
of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of the Army may enter 
into one or more multiyear contracts, beginning with the fiscal year 
2017 program year, for the procurement of UH-60M and HH-60M Black Hawk 
helicopters.
    (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2017 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such later fiscal year.
    SEC. 113. DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND SYSTEM-ARMY INCREMENT 1.
    (a) Training for Operators.--The Secretary of the Army shall take 
such actions as may be necessary to improve and tailor training for 
covered units in the versions of increment 1 that are in use on the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Fielding of Capability.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall rapidly identify and field 
    a capability for fixed and deployable multi-source ground 
    processing systems for covered units.
        (2) Commercially available capabilities.--In carrying out 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall procure commercially available 
    off-the-shelf technologies that--
            (A) meet essential tactical requirements for processing, 
        analyzing, and displaying intelligence information;
            (B) can integrate and communicate with covered units at the 
        tactical unit level and at higher unit levels;
            (C) are substantially easier for personnel to use than the 
        Distributed Common Ground System-Army; and
            (D) require less training than the Distributed Common 
        Ground System-Army.
    (c) Limitation on the Award of Contract.--The Secretary may not 
enter into a contract for the design, development, or procurement of 
any data architecture, data integration, or ``cloud'' capability, or 
any data analysis or data visualization and workflow capability 
(including warfighting function tools relating to increment 1 of the 
Distributed Common Ground System-Army) for covered units unless the 
contract--
        (1) is awarded not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act;
        (2) is awarded in accordance with applicable law and 
    regulations providing for the use of competitive procedures or 
    procedures applicable to the procurement of commercial items 
    including parts 12 and 15 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation;
        (3) is a fixed-price contract; and
        (4) provides that the technology to be procured under the 
    contract will--
            (A) begin initial fielding rapidly after the contract 
        award;
            (B) achieve initial operating capability not later than 
        nine months after the date on which the contract is awarded; 
        and
            (C) achieve full operating capability not later than 18 
        months after the date on which the contract is awarded.
    (d) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
    limitation in subsection (c) if the Secretary submits to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a written statement declaring 
    that such limitation would adversely affect ongoing operational 
    activities.
        (2) Nondelegation.--The Secretary of Defense may not delegate 
    the waiver authority under paragraph (1).
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) Covered units.--The term ``covered units'' means military 
    units that use increment 1 of the Distributed Common Ground System-
    Army, including tactical units and operators at the division, 
    brigade, and battalion levels, and tactical units below the 
    battalion level.
    SEC. 114. ASSESSMENT OF CERTAIN CAPABILITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
      THE ARMY.
    (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff of the Army, shall conduct 
an assessment of the following capabilities with respect to the 
Department of the Army:
        (1) The capacity of AH-64 Apache-equipped attack reconnaissance 
    battalions to meet future needs.
        (2) Air defense artillery capacity and responsiveness, 
    including--
            (A) the capacity of short-range air defense artillery to 
        address existing and emerging threats, including threats posed 
        by unmanned aerial systems, cruise missiles, and manned 
        aircraft; and
            (B) the potential for commercial off-the-shelf solutions.
        (3) Chemical, biological, radiological, and nuclear 
    capabilities and modernization needs.
        (4) Field artillery capabilities, including--
            (A) modernization needs;
            (B) munitions inventory shortfalls; and
            (C) changes in doctrine and war plans consistent with the 
        Memorandum of the Secretary of Defense dated June 19, 2008, 
        regarding the Department of Defense policy on cluster munitions 
        and unintended harm to civilians.
        (5) Fuel distribution and water purification capacity and 
    responsiveness.
        (6) Watercraft and port-opening capabilities and 
    responsiveness.
        (7) Transportation capacity and responsiveness, particularly 
    with respect to the transportation of fuel, water, and cargo.
        (8) Military police capacity.
        (9) Tactical mobility and tactical wheeled vehicle capacity, 
    including heavy equipment prime movers.
    (b) Report.--Not later than April 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
includes--
        (1) the assessment conducted under subsection (a);
        (2) recommendations for reducing or eliminating shortfalls in 
    responsiveness and capacity with respect to each of the 
    capabilities described in such subsection; and
        (3) an estimate of the costs of implementing such 
    recommendations.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (b) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

    SEC. 121. DETERMINATION OF VESSEL DELIVERY DATES.
    (a) Determination of Vessel Delivery Dates.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 633 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 7300 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 7301. Determination of vessel delivery dates
    ``(a) In General.--The delivery of a covered vessel shall be deemed 
to occur on the date on which--
        ``(1) the Secretary of the Navy determines that the vessel is 
    assembled and complete; and
        ``(2) custody of the vessel and all systems contained in the 
    vessel transfers to the Navy.
    ``(b) Inclusion in Budget and Acquisition Reports.--The delivery 
dates of covered vessels shall be included--
        ``(1) in the materials submitted to Congress by the Secretary 
    of Defense in support of the budget of the President for each 
    fiscal year (as submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of 
    title 31, United States Code); and
        ``(2) in any relevant Selected Acquisition Report submitted to 
    Congress under section 2432 of this title.
    ``(c) Covered Vessel Defined.--In this section, the term `covered 
vessel' means any vessel of the Navy that is under construction on or 
after the date of the enactment of this section using amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for 
shipbuilding and conversion, Navy.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 7300 the following new item:

``7301. Determination of vessel delivery dates.''.

    (b) Certification.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2017, the Secretary 
    of the Navy shall certify to the congressional defense committees 
    that the delivery dates of the following vessels have been adjusted 
    in accordance with section 7301 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    added by subsection (a):
            (A) The U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN-79).
            (B) The U.S.S. Zumwalt (DDG-1000).
            (C) The U.S.S. Michael Monsoor (DDG-1001).
            (D) The U.S.S. Lyndon B. Johnson (DDG-1002).
            (E) Any other vessel of the Navy that is under construction 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Contents.--The certification under paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) an identification of each vessel for which the delivery 
        date was adjusted; and
            (B) the delivery date of each such vessel, as so adjusted.
    SEC. 122. INCREMENTAL FUNDING FOR DETAIL DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF 
      LHA REPLACEMENT SHIP DESIGNATED LHA 8.
    (a) Authority To Use Incremental Funding.--The Secretary of the 
Navy may enter into and incrementally fund a contract for detail design 
and construction of the LHA Replacement ship designated LHA 8 and, 
subject to subsection (b), funds for payments under the contract may be 
provided from amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy, for fiscal years 2017 
and 2018.
    (b) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for any subsequent 
fiscal year is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose for such subsequent fiscal year.
    SEC. 123. LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.
    (a) Report on Littoral Combat Ship Mission Packages.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall include in the 
    materials submitted in support of the budget of the President (as 
    submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
    States Code) for each fiscal year through fiscal year 2022 a report 
    on Littoral Combat Ship mission packages.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include, 
    with respect to each Littoral Combat Ship mission package and 
    increment, the following:
            (A) A description of the status of and plans for 
        development, production, and sustainment, including--
                (i) projected unit costs compared to originally 
            estimated unit costs for each system that comprises the 
            mission package;
                (ii) projected development costs, procurement costs, 
            and 20-year sustainment costs compared to original 
            estimates of such costs for each system that comprises the 
            mission package;
                (iii) demonstrated performance compared to required 
            performance for each system that comprises the mission 
            package and for the mission package as a whole;
                (iv) problems relating to realized and potential costs, 
            schedule, or performance; and
                (v) any development plans, production plans, or 
            sustainment and mitigation plans that may be implemented to 
            address such problems.
            (B) A description, including dates, of each developmental 
        test, operational test, integrated test, and follow-on test 
        event that is--
                (i) completed in the fiscal year preceding the fiscal 
            year covered by the report; and
                (ii) expected to be completed in the fiscal year 
            covered by the report and any of the following five fiscal 
            years.
            (C) The date on which initial operational capability is 
        expected to be attained and a description of the performance 
        level criteria that must be demonstrated to declare that such 
        capability has been attained.
            (D) A description of--
                (i) the systems that attained initial operational 
            capability in the fiscal year preceding the fiscal year 
            covered by the report; and
                (ii) the performance level demonstrated by such systems 
            compared to the performance level required of such systems.
            (E) The acquisition inventory objective for each system.
            (F) An identification of--
                (i) each location (including the city, State, and 
            country) to which systems were delivered in the fiscal year 
            preceding the fiscal year covered by the report; and
                (ii) the quantity of systems delivered to each such 
            location.
            (G) An identification of--
                (i) each location (including the city, State, and 
            country) to which systems are projected to be delivered in 
            the fiscal year covered by the report and any of the 
            following five fiscal years; and
                (ii) the quantity of systems projected to be delivered 
            to each such location.
    (b) Certification of Littoral Combat Ship Mission Package Program 
of Record.--
        (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall include in the 
    materials submitted in support of the budget of the President (as 
    submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
    States Code) for fiscal year 2018 the certification described in 
    paragraph (2).
        (2) Certification.--The certification described in this 
    paragraph is a certification with respect to Littoral Combat Ship 
    mission packages that includes, as of the fiscal year covered by 
    the certification, the program of record quantity for--
            (A) surface warfare mission packages;
            (B) anti-submarine warfare mission packages; and
            (C) mine countermeasures mission packages.
    (c) Limitations.--
        (1) Limitation on deviation from acquisition strategy.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may not revise or 
        deviate from revision three of the Littoral Combat Ship 
        acquisition strategy, until the date on which the Secretary 
        submits to the congressional defense committees the 
        certification described in subparagraph (B).
            (B) Certification.--The certification described in this 
        subparagraph is a certification that includes--
                (i) the rationale of the Secretary for revising or 
            deviating from revision three of the Littoral Combat Ship 
            acquisition strategy;
                (ii) a description of each such revision or deviation; 
            and
                (iii) the Littoral Combat Ship acquisition strategy 
            that is in effect following the implementation of such 
            revisions or deviations.
        (2) Limitation on selection of single contractor.--The 
    Secretary of Defense may not select only a single prime contractor 
    to construct the Littoral Combat Ship or any successor frigate 
    class ship unless such selection--
            (A) is conducted using competitive procedures and for the 
        limited purpose of awarding a contract or contracts for--
                (i) an engineering change proposal for a frigate class 
            ship; or
                (ii) the construction of a frigate class ship; and
            (B) occurs only after a frigate design has--
                (i) reached sufficient maturity and completed a 
            preliminary design review; or
                (ii) demonstrated an equivalent level of design 
            completeness.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Littoral combat ship mission package.--The term ``Littoral 
    Combat Ship mission package'' means a mission module for a Littoral 
    Combat Ship combined with the crew detachment and support aircraft 
    for such ship.
        (2) Mission module.--The term ``mission module'' means the 
    mission systems (including vehicles, communications, sensors, and 
    weapons systems) combined with support equipment (including support 
    containers and standard interfaces) and software (including 
    software relating to the computing environment and multiple vehicle 
    communications system of the mission package).
        (3) Revision three.--The term ``revision three of the Littoral 
    Combat Ship acquisition strategy'' means the third revision of the 
    Littoral Combat Ship acquisition strategy approved by the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics on 
    March 29, 2016.
    (e) Repeal of Quarterly Reporting Requirement.--Section 126 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 126 Stat. 1657) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) by striking ``(a) Designation Required.--''.
    SEC. 124. LIMITATION ON USE OF SOLE-SOURCE SHIPBUILDING CONTRACTS 
      FOR CERTAIN VESSELS.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for 
fiscal year 2017 for joint high speed vessels or expeditionary fast 
transports may be used to enter into or prepare to enter into a 
contract on a sole-source basis for the construction of such vessels or 
transports unless the Secretary of the Navy submits to the 
congressional defense committees the certification described in 
subsection (b) and the report described in subsection (c).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a certification by the Secretary of the Navy that--
        (1) awarding a contract for the construction of one or more 
    joint high speed vessels or expeditionary fast transports on a 
    sole-source basis is in the national security interests of the 
    United States;
        (2) the construction of the vessels or transports will not 
    result in exceeding the requirement for the ship class, as 
    described in the most recent Navy force structure assessment;
        (3) the contract will be a fixed-price contract;
        (4) the price of the contract will be fair and reasonable, as 
    determined by the service acquisition executive of the Navy; and
        (5) the contract will provide for the United States to have 
    Government purpose rights in the data for the ship design.
    (c) Report.--The report described in this subsection is a report 
that includes--
        (1) an explanation of the rationale for awarding a contract for 
    the construction of joint high speed vessels or expeditionary fast 
    transports on a sole-source basis; and
        (2) a description of--
            (A) actions that may be carried out to ensure that, if 
        additional ships in the class are procured after the award of 
        the contract referred to in paragraph (1), the contracts for 
        the ships shall be awarded using competitive procedures; and
            (B) with respect to each such action, an implementation 
        schedule and any associated cost savings, as compared to a 
        contract awarded on a sole-source basis.
    SEC. 125. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE ADVANCED 
      ARRESTING GEAR PROGRAM.
    (a) Advanced Arresting Gear for U.S.S. Enterprise.--None of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the research and development, 
design, procurement, or advanced procurement of materials for advanced 
arresting gear for the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80) may be obligated or 
expended until the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional 
defense committees the report described in section 2432 of title 10, 
United States Code, for the most recently concluded fiscal quarter for 
the Advanced Arresting Gear Program in accordance with subsection 
(c)(1).
    (b) Advanced Arresting Gear for U.S.S. John F. Kennedy.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the research and development, 
design, procurement, or advanced procurement of materials for advanced 
arresting gear for the U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN-79) may be obligated 
or expended unless--
        (1) the decision to install advanced arresting gear on the 
    vessel is determined by the milestone decision authority for the 
    Program; and
        (2) the milestone decision authority for the Program submits 
    notification of such determination to the congressional defense 
    committees.
    (c) Additional Requirements.--
        (1) Treatment of baseline estimate.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall deem the Baseline Estimate for the Advanced Arresting Gear 
    Program for fiscal year 2009 as the original Baseline Estimate for 
    the Program.
        (2) Unit cost reports and critical cost growth.--
            (A) Subject to subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall carry 
        out sections 2433 and 2433a of title 10, United States Code, 
        with respect to the Advanced Arresting Gear Program, as if the 
        Department had submitted a Selected Acquisition Report for the 
        Program that included the Baseline Estimate for the Program for 
        fiscal year 2009 as the original Baseline Estimate, except that 
        the Secretary shall not carry out subparagraph (B) or 
        subparagraph (C) of section 2433a(c)(1) of such title with 
        respect to the Program.
            (B) In carrying out the review required by section 2433a of 
        such title, the Secretary shall not approve a contract, enter 
        into a new contract, exercise an option under a contract, or 
        otherwise extend the scope of a contract for advanced arresting 
        gear for the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80), except to the extent 
        determined necessary by the milestone decision authority, on a 
        non-delegable basis, to ensure that the Program can be 
        restructured as intended by the Secretary without unnecessarily 
        wasting resources.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Baseline estimate.--The term ``Baseline Estimate'' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 2433(a)(2) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
        (2) Mileston decision authority.--The term ``milestone decision 
    authority'' has the meaning given the term in section 2366b(g)(3) 
    of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) Original baseline estimate.--The term ``original Baseline 
    Estimate'' has the meaning given the term in section 2435(d)(1) of 
    title 10, United States Code.
        (4) Selected acquisition report.--The term ``Selected 
    Acquisition Report'' means a Selected Acquisition Report submitted 
    to Congress under section 2432 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 126. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROCUREMENT OF 
      U.S.S. ENTERPRISE (CVN-80).
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for advance 
procurement or procurement for the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80), not more 
than 25 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which 
the Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations jointly 
submit to the congressional defense committees the report under 
subsection (b).
    (b) Initial Report on CVN-79 and CVN-80.--Not later than December 
1, 2016, the Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations 
shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that includes a description of actions that may be carried out 
(including de-scoping requirements, if necessary) to achieve a ship end 
cost of--
        (1) not more than $12,000,000,000 for the CVN-80; and
        (2) not more than $11,000,000,000 for the U.S.S. John F. 
    Kennedy (CVN-79).
    (c) Annual Report on CVN-79 and CVN-80.--
        (1) In general.--Together with the budget of the President for 
    each fiscal year through fiscal year 2021 (as submitted to Congress 
    under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) the 
    Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations shall 
    submit a report on the efforts of the Navy to achieve the ship end 
    costs described in subsection (b) for the CVN-79 and CVN-80.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include, 
    with respect to the procurement of the CVN-79 and the CVN-80, the 
    following:
            (A) A description of the progress made toward achieving the 
        ship end costs described in subsection (b), including realized 
        cost savings.
            (B) A description of low value-added or unnecessary 
        elements of program cost that have been reduced or eliminated.
            (C) Cost savings estimates for current and planned 
        initiatives.
            (D) A schedule that includes--
                (i) a plan for spending with phasing of key obligations 
            and outlays;
                (ii) decision points describing when savings may be 
            realized; and
                (iii) key events that must occur to execute initiatives 
            and achieve savings.
            (E) Instances of lower Government estimates used in 
        contract negotiations.
            (F) A description of risks that may result from achieving 
        the procurement end costs specified in subsection (b).
            (G) A description of incentives or rewards provided or 
        planned to be provided to prime contractors for meeting the 
        procurement end costs specified in subsection (b).
    SEC. 127. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON AIRCRAFT CARRIER PROCUREMENT 
      SCHEDULES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) In the Congressional Budget Office report titled ``An 
    Analysis of the Navy's Fiscal Year 2016 Shipbuilding Plan'', the 
    Office stated as follows: ``To prevent the carrier force from 
    declining to 10 ships in the 2040s, 1 short of its inventory goal 
    of 11, the Navy could accelerate purchases after 2018 to 1 every 
    four years, rather than 1 every five years''.
        (2) In a report submitted to Congress on March 17, 2015, the 
    Secretary of the Navy indicated the Department of the Navy has a 
    requirement of 11 aircraft carriers.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the plan of the Department of the Navy to schedule the 
    procurement of one aircraft carrier every five years will reduce 
    the overall aircraft carrier inventory to 10 aircraft carriers, a 
    level insufficient to meet peacetime and war plan requirements; and
        (2) to accommodate the required aircraft carrier force 
    structure, the Department of the Navy should--
            (A) begin to program construction for the next aircraft 
        carrier to be built after the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80) in 
        fiscal year 2022; and
            (B) program the required advance procurement activities to 
        accommodate the construction of such carrier.
    SEC. 128. REPORT ON P-8 POSEIDON AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than October 1, 2017, the Secretary 
of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on potential upgrades to the capabilities of the P-8 Poseidon 
aircraft.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include, with 
respect to the P-8 Poseidon aircraft, the following:
        (1) A review of potential upgrades to the sensors onboard the 
    aircraft, including upgrades to intelligence sensors, surveillance 
    sensors, and reconnaissance sensors such as those being fielded on 
    MQ-4 Global Hawk aircraft platforms.
        (2) An assessment of the ability of the Navy to use long-range 
    multispectral imaging systems onboard the aircraft that are similar 
    to such systems being used onboard the MQ-4 Global Hawk aircraft.
    SEC. 129. DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION OF REPLACEMENT DOCK LANDING SHIP 
      DESIGNATED LX(R) OR AMPHIBIOUS TRANSPORT DOCK DESIGNATED LPD-29.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Navy may enter into a 
contract, beginning with the fiscal year 2017 program year, for the 
design and construction of the replacement dock landing ship designated 
LX(R) or the amphibious transport dock designated LPD-29 using amounts 
authorized to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for 
Shipbuilding and Conversion, Navy.
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to the contract 
entered into under subsection (a), the Secretary may use incremental 
funding to make payments under the contract.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--The contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under such contract for any fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2017 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such fiscal year.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

    SEC. 131. EC-130H COMPASS CALL RECAPITALIZATION PROGRAM.
    (a) Authorization.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the 
Air Force may carry out a program to transfer the primary mission 
equipment of the EC-130H Compass Call aircraft fleet to an aircraft 
platform that the Secretary determines--
        (1) is more operationally effective and survivable than the 
    existing EC-130H Compass Call aircraft platform; and
        (2) meets the requirements of the combatant commands.
    (b) Limitation.--
        (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), none of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
    available for fiscal year 2017 or any other fiscal year for 
    procurement may be obligated or expended on the program under 
    subsection (a) until the date on which the Secretary of the Air 
    Force determines that there is a high likelihood that the program 
    will meet the requirements of the combatant commands.
        (2) The limitation in paragraph (1)--
            (A) shall not apply to the development and procurement of 
        the first two aircraft under the program; and
            (B) shall not limit the authority of the Secretary to enter 
        into a contract that may include an option for the future 
        production of aircraft under the program if--
                (i) the exercise of such option is at the discretion of 
            the Secretary; and
                (ii) such option is not exercised until the Secretary 
            determines that there is a high likelihood that the program 
            will meet the requirements of the combatant commands.
    SEC. 132. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT TO PRESERVE CERTAIN RETIRED C-5 
      AIRCRAFT.
    Section 141 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1659) is amended by striking 
subsection (d).
    SEC. 133. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT TO PRESERVE F-117 AIRCRAFT IN 
      RECALLABLE CONDITION.
    Section 136 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2114) is amended by 
striking subsection (b).
    SEC. 134. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF A-
      10 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Retirement.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or on backup 
aircraft inventory status any A-10 aircraft.
    (b) Additional Limitation on Retirement.--In addition to the 
prohibition in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Air Force may not 
retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or on backup aircraft 
inventory status any A-10 aircraft until a period of 90 days has 
elapsed following the date on which the Secretary submits to the 
congressional defense committees the report under subsection (e)(2).
    (c) Prohibition on Significant Reductions in Manning Levels.--None 
of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2017 for the Air Force may be obligated 
or expended to make significant reductions to manning levels with 
respect to any A-10 aircraft squadrons or divisions.
    (d) Minimum Inventory Requirement.--The Secretary of the Air Force 
shall ensure the Air Force maintains a minimum of 171 A-10 aircraft 
designated as primary mission aircraft inventory until a period of 90 
days has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary submits to 
the congressional defense committees the report under subsection 
(e)(2).
    (e) Reports Required.--
        (1) The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
    includes--
            (A) the results and findings of the initial operational 
        test and evaluation of the F-35 aircraft program; and
            (B) a comparison test and evaluation that examines the 
        capabilities of the F-35A and A-10C aircraft in conducting 
        close air support, combat search and rescue, and forward air 
        controller airborne missions.
        (2) Not later than 180 days after the date of the submission of 
    the report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Air Force 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that 
    includes--
            (A) the views of the Secretary with respect to the results 
        of the initial operational test and evaluation of the F-35 
        aircraft program as summarized in the report under paragraph 
        (1), including any issues or concerns of the Secretary with 
        respect to such results;
            (B) a plan for addressing any deficiencies and carrying out 
        any corrective actions identified in such report; and
            (C) short-term and long-term strategies for preserving the 
        capability of the Air Force to conduct close air support, 
        combat search and rescue, and forward air controller airborne 
        missions.
    (f) Special Rule.--
        (1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of the Air Force 
    may carry out the transition of the A-10 unit at Fort Wayne Air 
    National Guard Base, Indiana, to an F-16 unit as described by the 
    Secretary in the Force Structure Actions map submitted in support 
    of the budget of the President for fiscal year 2017 (as submitted 
    to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code).
        (2) Subsections (a) through (e) shall apply with respect to any 
    A-10 aircraft affected by the transition described in paragraph 
    (1).
    SEC. 135. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DESTRUCTION OF A-
      10 AIRCRAFT IN STORAGE STATUS.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for the Air Force for fiscal year 
2017 or any fiscal year thereafter may be obligated or expended to 
scrap, destroy, or otherwise dispose of any potential donor A-10 
aircraft until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force submits 
to the congressional defense committees the report required under 
section 134(e)(2).
    (b) Notification and Certification.--Not later than 45 days before 
taking any action to scrap, destroy, or otherwise dispose of any A-10 
aircraft in any storage status in the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and 
Regeneration Group, the Secretary of the Air Force shall--
        (1) notify the congressional defense committees of the intent 
    of the Secretary to take such action; and
        (2) certify that the A-10 aircraft subject to such action does 
    not have serviceable wings or other components that could be used 
    to prevent the permanent removal of any active inventory A-10 
    aircraft from flyable status.
    (c) Plan to Prevent Removal A-10 Aircraft From Flyable Status.--The 
Secretary of the Air Force shall--
        (1) include with the materials submitted to Congress in support 
    of the budget of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 (as 
    submitted with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of 
    title 31, United States Code) a plan to prevent the permanent 
    removal of any active inventory A-10 aircraft from flyable status 
    due to unserviceable wings or any other required component during 
    the period covered by the future years defense plan submitted to 
    Congress under section 221 of title 10, United States Code; and
        (2) carry out such plan to prevent the permanent removal of any 
    active inventory A-10 aircraft from flyable status.
    (d) Potential Donor A-10 Aircraft Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``potential donor A-10 aircraft'' means any A-10 aircraft in any 
storage status in the 309th Aerospace Maintenance and Regeneration 
Group that has serviceable wings or other components that could be used 
to prevent any active inventory A-10 aircraft from being permanently 
removed from flyable status due to unserviceable wings or other 
components.
    SEC. 136. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
      JOINT SURVEILLANCE TARGET ATTACK RADAR SYSTEM AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b) and in 
addition to the prohibition under section 144 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
758), none of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2018 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to retire, or prepare to retire, any Joint Surveillance Target 
Attack Radar System aircraft.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to individual Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System aircraft 
that the Secretary of the Air Force determines, on a case-by-case 
basis, to be non-operational because of mishaps, other damage, or being 
uneconomical to repair.
    SEC. 137. ELIMINATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON AIRCRAFT INVENTORY.
    Section 231a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (e); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

    SEC. 141. STANDARDIZATION OF 5.56MM RIFLE AMMUNITION.
    (a) Report.--If, on the date that is 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Army and the Marine Corps are using in 
combat two different types of enhanced 5.56mm rifle ammunition, the 
Secretary of Defense shall, on such date, submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report explaining the reasons that the Army and 
the Marine Corps are using different types of such ammunition.
    (b) Standardization Requirement.--Except as provided in subsection 
(c), not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Army and the Marine 
Corps are using in combat one standard type of enhanced 5.56mm rifle 
ammunition.
    (c) Exception.--Subsection (b) shall not apply in a case in which 
the Secretary of Defense--
        (1) determines that a state of emergency requires the Army and 
    the Marine Corps to use in combat different types of enhanced 
    5.56mm rifle ammunition; and
        (2) certifies to the congressional defense committees that such 
    a determination has been made.
    SEC. 142. FIRE SUPPRESSANT AND FUEL CONTAINMENT STANDARDS FOR 
      CERTAIN VEHICLES.
    (a) Guidance Required.--
        (1) The Secretary of the Army shall issue guidance regarding 
    fire suppressant and fuel containment standards for covered 
    vehicles of the Army.
        (2) The Secretary of the Navy shall issue guidance regarding 
    fire suppressant and fuel containment standards for covered 
    vehicles of the Marine Corps.
    (b) Elements.--The guidance regarding fire suppressant and fuel 
containment standards issued pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
        (1) meet the survivability requirements applicable to each 
    class of covered vehicles;
        (2) include standards for vehicle armor, vehicle fire 
    suppression systems, and fuel containment technologies in covered 
    vehicles; and
        (3) balance cost, survivability, and mobility.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary 
of the Navy shall each submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that includes--
        (1) the policy guidance established pursuant to subsection (a), 
    set forth separately for each class of covered vehicle; and
        (2) any other information the Secretaries determine to be 
    appropriate.
    (d) Covered Vehicles.--In this section, the term ``covered 
vehicles'' means ground vehicles acquired on or after October 1, 2018, 
under a major defense acquisition program (as such term is defined in 
section 2430 of title 10, United States Code), including light tactical 
vehicles, medium tactical vehicles, heavy tactical vehicles, and ground 
combat vehicles.
    SEC. 143. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DESTRUCTION OF 
      CERTAIN CLUSTER MUNITIONS.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended for the destruction of cluster munitions until 
the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the report required 
by subsection (c).
    (b) Exception for Safety.--The limitation under subsection (a) 
shall not apply to the destruction of cluster munitions that the 
Secretary determines--
        (1) are unserviceable as a result of an inspection, test, field 
    incident, or other significant failure to meet performance or 
    logistics requirements; or
        (2) are unsafe or could pose a safety risk if not demilitarized 
    or destroyed.
    (c) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report that includes each of the following elements:
            (A) A description of the policy of the Department of 
        Defense regarding the use of cluster munitions, including an 
        explanation of the process through which commanders may seek 
        waivers to use such munitions.
            (B) A 10-year projection of the requirements and inventory 
        levels for all cluster munitions that takes into account future 
        production of cluster munitions, any plans for demilitarization 
        of such munitions, any plans for the recapitalization of such 
        munitions, the age of the munitions, storage and safety 
        considerations, and other factors that will affect the size of 
        the inventory.
            (C) A 10-year projection for the cost to achieve the 
        inventory levels projected in subparagraph (B), including the 
        cost for potential demilitarization or disposal of such 
        munitions.
            (D) A 10-year projection for the cost to develop and 
        produce new cluster munitions that comply with the Memorandum 
        of the Secretary of Defense dated June 19, 2008, regarding the 
        Department of Defense policy on cluster munitions and 
        unintended harm to civilians that the Secretary determines are 
        necessary to meet the demands of current operational plans.
            (E) An assessment, by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
        Staff, of the effects of the projected cluster inventory on 
        operational plans.
            (F) Any other matters that the Secretary determines should 
        be included in the report.
        (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
    (d) Cluster Munitions Defined.--In this section, the term ``cluster 
munitions'' includes systems delivered by aircraft, cruise missiles, 
artillery, mortars, missiles, tanks, rocket launchers, or naval guns 
that deploy payloads of explosive submunitions that detonate via target 
acquisition, impact, or altitude, or that self-destruct.
    SEC. 144. REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE MUNITIONS STRATEGY FOR 
      THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than April 1, 2017, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the munitions strategy for the combatant commands for the 
six-year period beginning on January 1, 2017.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) For each year covered by the report, an identification of 
    the munitions requirements of the combatant commands, including--
            (A) plans, programming, and budgeting for each type of 
        munition; and
            (B) the inventory of each type of munition.
        (2) An assessment of any gaps and shortfalls with respect to 
    munitions determined to be essential to the ability of the 
    combatant commands to fulfill mission requirements.
        (3) An assessment of how current and planned munitions programs 
    may affect operational concepts and capabilities of the combatant 
    commands.
        (4) An identification of limitations in relevant industrial 
    bases and a description of necessary munitions investments.
        (5) An assessment of how munitions capability and capacity may 
    be affected by changes consistent with the memorandum of the 
    Secretary of Defense dated June 19, 2008, regarding the policy of 
    the Department of Defense on cluster munitions and unintended harm 
    to civilians.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    SEC. 145. MODIFICATIONS TO REPORTING ON USE OF COMBAT MISSION 
      REQUIREMENTS FUNDS.
    Section 123 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4158; 10 U.S.C. 167 
note) is amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``quarterly'' and 
    inserting ``annual'';
        (2) in the subsection heading of subsection (a), by striking 
    ``Quarterly'' and inserting ``Annual''; and
        (3) by striking ``quarter'' each place it appears and inserting 
    ``year''.
    SEC. 146. REPORT ON ALTERNATIVE MANAGEMENT STRUCTURES FOR THE F-35 
      JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2017, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on potential alternative management structures for the F-35 joint 
strike fighter program.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An analysis of potential alternative management structures 
    for the F-35 joint strike fighter program, including--
            (A) continuation of the joint program office for the 
        program;
            (B) the establishment of separate program offices for the 
        program in the Department of the Air Force and the Department 
        of the Navy;
            (C) the establishment of separate program offices for each 
        variant of the F-35A, F-35B, and F-35C;
            (D) division of responsibilities for the program between a 
        joint program office and the military departments; and
            (E) such other alternative management structures as the 
        Secretary determines to be appropriate.
        (2) An evaluation of the benefits and drawbacks of each 
    alternative management structure analyzed in the report with 
    respect to--
            (A) cost;
            (B) alignment of responsibility and accountability; and
            (C) the adequacy of representation from military 
        departments and program partners.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    SEC. 147. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF F-35 LIGHTNING II AIRCRAFT 
      SUSTAINMENT SUPPORT.
    (a) Review.--Not later than September 30, 2017, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the sustainment support structure for the F-35 
Lightning II aircraft program.
    (b) Elements.--The review under subsection (a) shall include, with 
respect to the F-35 Lightning II aircraft program, the following:
        (1) The status of the sustainment support strategy for the 
    program, including goals for personnel training, required 
    infrastructure, and fleet readiness.
        (2) Approaches, including performance-based logistics, 
    considered in developing the sustainment support strategy for the 
    program.
        (3) Other information regarding sustainment and logistics 
    support for the program that the Comptroller General determines to 
    be of critical importance to the long-term viability of the 
    program.
    SEC. 148. BRIEFING ON ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR GROUND MOBILITY 
      VEHICLE.
    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, in consultation with the 
Secretary of the Army, shall provide a briefing to the congressional 
defense committees on the acquisition strategy for the Ground Mobility 
Vehicle for use with the Global Response Force of the 82nd Airborne 
Division.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing under subsection (a) shall include an 
assessment of the following:
        (1) The feasability of acquiring the Ground Mobility Vehicle--
            (A) as a commercially available off-the-shelf item (as such 
        term is defined in section 104 of title 41, United States 
        Code); or
            (B) as a modified version of such an item.
        (2) Whether acquiring the Ground Mobility Vehicle in a manner 
    described in paragraph (1) would satisfy the requirements of the 
    program and reduce the life-cycle cost of the program.
        (3) Whether the acquisition strategy for the Ground Mobility 
    Vehicle meets the focus areas specified in the most recent version 
    of the Better Buying Power initiative of the Secretary of Defense.
        (4) Whether including an active safety system in the Ground 
    Mobility Vehicle, such as the electronic stability control system 
    used on the joint light tactical vehicle, would reduce the risk of 
    vehicle rollover.
    SEC. 149. STUDY AND REPORT ON OPTIMAL MIX OF AIRCRAFT CAPABILITIES 
      FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Study.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study 
    to determine--
            (A) an optimal mix of short-range fighter-class strike 
        aircraft and long-range strike aircraft for the use of the 
        Armed Forces during the covered period;
            (B) an optimal mix of manned aerial platforms and unmanned 
        aerial platforms for the use of the Armed Forces during such 
        period; and
            (C) an optimal mix of other aircraft and capabilities for 
        the use of the Armed Forces during such period, including--
                (i) long-range, medium-range, and short-range 
            intelligence, surveillance, reconnaissance, or strike 
            aircraft, or combination of such aircraft;
                (ii) aircraft with varying observability 
            characteristics;
                (iii) land-based and sea-based aircraft;
                (iv) advanced legacy fourth-generation aircraft 
            platforms of proven design;
                (v) next generation air superiority capabilities; and
                (vi) advanced technology innovations.
        (2) Considerations.--In making the determinations under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider defense strategy, 
    critical assumptions, priorities, force size, and cost.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than April 14, 2017, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    that includes the following:
            (A) The results of the study conducted under subsection 
        (a).
            (B) A discussion of the specific assumptions, observations, 
        conclusions, and recommendations of the study.
            (C) A description of the modeling and analysis techniques 
        used for the study.
            (D) A plan for fielding complementary aircraft and 
        capabilities identified as an optimal mix in the study under 
        subsection (a).
            (E) A plan to meet objectives and fulfill the warfighting 
        capability and capacity requirements of the combatant commands 
        using the aircraft and capabilities described in subsection 
        (a).
        (2) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) may be submitted in 
    classified form, but shall include an unclassified executive 
    summary.
        (3) Nonduplication of effort.--If any information required 
    under paragraph (1) has been included in another report or 
    notification previously submitted to any of the appropriate 
    congressional committees by law, the Secretary may provide a list 
    of such reports and notifications at the time of submitting the 
    report required under such paragraph instead of including such 
    information in such report.
        (4) Definitions.--ln this subsection:
            (A) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
        the congressional defense committees, the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee 
        on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
            (B) The term ``covered period'' means the period beginning 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on January 
        1, 2030.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Laboratory quality enhancement program.
Sec. 212. Modification of mechanisms to provide funds for defense 
          laboratories for research and development of technologies for 
          military missions.
Sec. 213. Making permanent authority for defense research and 
          development rapid innovation program.
Sec. 214. Authorization for National Defense University and Defense 
          Acquisition University to enter into cooperative research and 
          development agreements.
Sec. 215. Manufacturing Engineering Education Grant Program.
Sec. 216. Notification requirement for certain rapid prototyping, 
          experimentation, and demonstration activities.
Sec. 217. Increased micro-purchase threshold for research programs and 
          entities.
Sec. 218. Improved biosafety for handling of select agents and toxins.
Sec. 219. Designation of Department of Defense senior official with 
          principal responsibility for directed energy weapons.
Sec. 220. Restructuring of the distributed common ground system of the 
          Army.
Sec. 221. Limitation on availability of funds for the countering weapons 
          of mass destruction system Constellation.
Sec. 222. Limitation on availability of funds for Defense Innovation 
          Unit Experimental.
Sec. 223. Limitation on availability of funds for Joint Surveillance 
          Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) recapitalization program.
Sec. 224. Acquisition program baseline and annual reports on follow-on 
          modernization program for F-35 Joint Strike Fighter.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Strategy for assured access to trusted microelectronics.
Sec. 232. Pilot program on evaluation of commercial information 
          technology.
Sec. 233. Pilot program for the enhancement of the research, 
          development, test, and evaluation centers of the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 234. Pilot program on modernization and fielding of electromagnetic 
          spectrum warfare systems and electronic warfare capabilities.
Sec. 235. Pilot program on disclosure of certain sensitive information 
          to federally funded research and development centers.
Sec. 236. Pilot program on enhanced interaction between the Defense 
          Advanced Research Projects Agency and the service academies.
Sec. 237. Independent review of F/A-18 physiological episodes and 
          corrective actions.
Sec. 238. B-21 bomber development program accountability matrices.
Sec. 239. Study on helicopter crash prevention and mitigation 
          technology.
Sec. 240. Strategy for Improving Electronic and Electromagnetic Spectrum 
          Warfare Capabilities.
Sec. 241. Sense of Congress on development and fielding of fifth 
          generation airborne systems.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

    SEC. 211. LABORATORY QUALITY ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering, shall 
carry out a program to be known as the ``Laboratory Quality Enhancement 
Program'' under which the Secretary shall establish the panels 
described in subsection (b) and direct such panels--
        (1) to review and make recommendations to the Secretary with 
    respect to--
            (A) existing policies and practices affecting the science 
        and technology reinvention laboratories to improve the mission 
        effectiveness of such laboratories; and
            (B) new initiatives proposed by the science and technology 
        reinvention laboratories;
        (2) to support implementation of current and future initiatives 
    affecting the science and technology reinvention laboratories; and
        (3) to conduct assessments or data analysis on such other 
    issues as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
    (b) Panels.--The panels described in this subsection are:
        (1) A panel on personnel, workforce development, and talent 
    management.
        (2) A panel on facilities, equipment, and infrastructure.
        (3) A panel on research strategy, technology transfer, and 
    industry and university partnerships.
        (4) A panel on governance and oversight processes.
    (c) Composition of Panels.--(1) Each panel described in paragraphs 
(1) through (3) of subsection (b) may be composed of subject matter and 
technical management experts from--
        (A) laboratories and research centers of the Army, Navy, and 
    Air Force;
        (B) appropriate Defense Agencies;
        (C) the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
    Research and Engineering; and
        (D) such other entities as the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (2) The panel described in subsection (b)(4) shall be composed of--
        (A) the Director of the Army Research Laboratory;
        (B) the Director of the Air Force Research Laboratory;
        (C) the Director of the Naval Research Laboratory;
        (D) the Director of the Engineer Research and Development 
    Center of the Army Corps of Engineers; and
        (E) such other members as the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (d) Governance of Panels.--(1) The chairperson of each panel shall 
be selected by its members.
    (2) Each panel, in coordination with the Assistant Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering, shall transmit to the Science and 
Technology Executive Committee of the Department of Defense such 
information or findings on topics requiring decision or approval as the 
panel considers appropriate.
    (e) Discharge of Certain Authorities to Conduct Personnel 
Demonstration Projects.--Subparagraph (C) of section 342(b)(3) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 
103-337; 108 Stat. 2721), as added by section 1114(a) of the Floyd D. 
Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as 
enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-315), is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: 
``through the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research and 
Engineering (who shall place an emphasis in the exercise of such 
authorities on enhancing efficient operations of the laboratory and who 
may, in exercising such authorities, request administrative support 
from science and technology reinvention laboratories to review, 
research, and adjudicate personnel demonstration project proposals)''.
    (f) Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratory Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``science and technology reinvention laboratory'' 
means a science and technology reinvention laboratory designated under 
section 1105 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), as amended.
    SEC. 212. MODIFICATION OF MECHANISMS TO PROVIDE FUNDS FOR DEFENSE 
      LABORATORIES FOR RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF TECHNOLOGIES FOR 
      MILITARY MISSIONS.
    (a) Amount Authorized Under Current Mechanism.--Paragraph (1) of 
subsection (a) of section 219 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended 
in the matter before subparagraph (A) by striking ``not more than three 
percent'' and inserting ``not less than two percent and not more than 
four percent''.
    (b) Additional Mechanism to Provide Funds.--Such subsection is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Fee.--After consultation with the science and technology 
    executive of the military department concerned, the director of a 
    defense laboratory may charge customer activities a fixed 
    percentage fee, in addition to normal costs of performance, in 
    order to obtain funds to carry out activities authorized by this 
    subsection. The fixed fee may not exceed four percent of costs.''.
    (c) Modification of Cost Limit Compliance for Infrastructure 
Projects.--Subsection (b)(4) of such section is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) Section 2802 of such title, with respect to 
        construction projects that exceed the cost specified in 
        subsection (a)(2) of section 2805 of such title for certain 
        unspecified minor military construction projects for 
        laboratories.''.
    (d) Repeal of Sunset.--Such section is amended by striking 
subsection (d).
    SEC. 213. MAKING PERMANENT AUTHORITY FOR DEFENSE RESEARCH AND 
      DEVELOPMENT RAPID INNOVATION PROGRAM.
    Section 1073 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2359 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``for each of fiscal years 
    2011 through 2023 may be used for any such fiscal year'' and 
    inserting ``for a fiscal year may be used for such fiscal year''; 
    and
        (2) by striking subsection (f).
    SEC. 214. AUTHORIZATION FOR NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY AND DEFENSE 
      ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY TO ENTER INTO COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND 
      DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS.
    (a) National Defense University.--Section 2165 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f) Cooperative Research and Development Agreements.--(1) In 
engaging in research and development projects pursuant to subsection 
(a) of section 2358 of this title by a contract, cooperative agreement, 
or grant pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of such section, the Secretary 
may enter into such contract or cooperative agreement or award such 
grant through the National Defense University.
    ``(2) The National Defense University shall be considered a 
Government-operated Federal laboratory for purposes of section 12 of 
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
3710a).''.
    (b) Defense Acquisition University.--Section 1746 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Cooperative Research and Development Agreements.--(1) In 
engaging in research and development projects pursuant to subsection 
(a) of section 2358 of this title by a contract, cooperative agreement, 
or grant pursuant to subsection (b)(1) of such section, the Secretary 
may enter into such contract or cooperative agreement or award such 
grant through the Defense Acquisition University.
    ``(2) The Defense Acquisition University shall be considered a 
Government-operated Federal laboratory for purposes of section 12 of 
the Stevenson-Wydler Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 
3710a).''.
    SEC. 215. MANUFACTURING ENGINEERING EDUCATION GRANT PROGRAM.
    Section 2196 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 2196. Manufacturing engineering education program
    ``(a) Establishment of Manufacturing Engineering Education 
Program.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a program under 
which the Secretary makes grants or other awards to support--
        ``(A) the enhancement of existing programs in manufacturing 
    engineering education to further a mission of the department; or
        ``(B) the establishment of new programs in manufacturing 
    engineering education that meet such requirements.
    ``(2) Grants and awards under this section may be made to industry, 
not-for-profit institutions, institutions of higher education, or to 
consortia of such institutions or industry.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall establish the program in consultation 
with the Secretary of Education, the Director of the National Science 
Foundation, the Director of the Office of Science and Technology 
Policy, and the secretaries of such other relevant Federal agencies as 
the Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall ensure that the program is coordinated 
with Department programs associated with advanced manufacturing.
    ``(5) The program shall be known as the `Manufacturing Engineering 
Education Program'.
    ``(b) Geographical Distribution of Grants and Awards.--In awarding 
grants and other awards under this subsection, the Secretary shall, to 
the maximum extent practicable, avoid geographical concentration of 
awards.
    ``(c) Covered Programs.--A program of engineering education 
supported pursuant to this section shall meet the requirements of this 
section.
    ``(d) Components of Program.--The program of education for which 
such a grant is made shall be a consolidated and integrated 
multidisciplinary program of education with an emphasis on the 
following components:
        ``(1) Multidisciplinary instruction that encompasses the total 
    manufacturing engineering enterprise and that may include--
            ``(A) manufacturing engineering education and training 
        through classroom activities, laboratory activities, thesis 
        projects, individual or team projects, internships, cooperative 
        work-study programs, and interactions with industrial 
        facilities, consortia, or such other activities and 
        organizations in the United States and foreign countries as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate;
            ``(B) faculty development programs;
            ``(C) recruitment of educators highly qualified in 
        manufacturing engineering to teach or develop manufacturing 
        engineering courses;
            ``(D) presentation of seminars, workshops, and training for 
        the development of specific manufacturing engineering skills;
            ``(E) activities involving interaction between students and 
        industry, including programs for visiting scholars, personnel 
        exchange, or industry executives;
            ``(F) development of new, or updating and modification of 
        existing, manufacturing curriculum, course offerings, and 
        education programs;
            ``(G) establishment of programs in manufacturing workforce 
        training;
            ``(H) establishment of joint manufacturing engineering 
        programs with defense laboratories and depots; and
            ``(I) expansion of manufacturing training and education 
        programs and outreach for members of the armed forces, 
        dependents and children of such members, veterans, and 
        employees of the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Opportunities for students to obtain work experience in 
    manufacturing through such activities as internships, summer job 
    placements, or cooperative work-study programs.
        ``(3) Faculty and student engagement with industry that is 
    directly related to, and supportive of, the education of students 
    in manufacturing engineering because of--
            ``(A) the increased understanding of manufacturing 
        engineering challenges and potential solutions; and
            ``(B) the enhanced quality and effectiveness of the 
        instruction that result from that increased understanding.
    ``(e) Proposals.--The Secretary of Defense shall solicit proposals 
for grants and other awards to be made pursuant to this section for the 
support of programs of manufacturing engineering education that are 
consistent with the purposes of this section.
    ``(f) Merit Competition.--Applications for awards shall be 
evaluated on the basis of merit pursuant to competitive procedures 
prescribed by the Secretary.
    ``(g) Selection Criteria.--The Secretary may select a proposal for 
an award pursuant to this section if the proposal, at a minimum, does 
each of the following:
        ``(1) Contains innovative approaches for improving engineering 
    education in manufacturing technology.
        ``(2) Demonstrates a strong commitment by the proponents to 
    apply the resources necessary to achieve the objectives for which 
    the award is to be made.
        ``(3) Provides for effective engagement with industry or 
    government organizations that supports the instruction to be 
    provided in the proposed program and is likely to improve 
    manufacturing engineering and technology.
        ``(4) Demonstrates a significant level of involvement of United 
    States industry in the proposed instructional and research 
    activities.
        ``(5) Is likely to attract superior students and promote 
    careers in manufacturing engineering.
        ``(6) Proposes to involve fully qualified personnel who are 
    experienced in manufacturing engineering education and technology.
        ``(7) Proposes a program that, within three years after the 
    award is made, is likely to attract from sources other than the 
    Federal Government the financial and other support necessary to 
    sustain such program.
        ``(8) Proposes to achieve a significant level of participation 
    by women, members of minority groups, and individuals with 
    disabilities through active recruitment of students from among such 
    persons.
        ``(9) Trains students in advanced manufacturing and in relevant 
    emerging technologies and production processes.
    ``(h) Institution of Higher Education Defined.--In this section, 
the term `institution of higher education' has the meaning given such 
term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1001(a)).''.
    SEC. 216. NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR CERTAIN RAPID PROTOTYPING, 
      EXPERIMENTATION, AND DEMONSTRATION ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Notice Required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall not initiate 
a covered activity until a period of 10 business days has elapsed 
following the date on which the Secretary submits to the congressional 
defense committees the notice described in subsection (b) with respect 
to such activity.
    (b) Elements of Notice.--The notice described in this subsection is 
a written notice of the intention of the Secretary to initiate a 
covered activity. Each such notice shall include the following:
        (1) A description of the activity.
        (2) Estimated costs and funding sources for the activity, 
    including a description of any cost-sharing or in-kind support 
    arrangements with other participants.
        (3) A description of any transition agreement, including the 
    identity of any partner organization that may receive the results 
    of the covered activity under such an agreement.
        (4) Identification of major milestones and the anticipated date 
    of completion of the activity.
    (c) Covered Activity.--In this section, the term ``covered 
activity'' means a rapid prototyping, experimentation, or demonstration 
activity carried out under program element 0603382N.
    (d) Sunset.--The requirements of this section shall terminate five 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 217. INCREASED MICRO-PURCHASE THRESHOLD FOR RESEARCH PROGRAMS 
      AND ENTITIES.
    (a) Increased Micro-purchase Threshold for Basic Research Programs 
and Activities of the Department of Defense Science and Technology 
Reinvention Laboratories.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code, 
    as amended by section 821(a), is further amended by adding at the 
    end the following new section:
``Sec. 2339. Micro-purchase threshold for basic research programs and 
    activities of the Department of Defense science and technology 
    reinvention laboratories
    ``Notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 1902 of title 41, the 
micro-purchase threshold for the Department of Defense for purposes of 
such section is $10,000 for purposes of basic research programs and for 
the activities of the Department of Defense science and technology 
reinvention laboratories.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter, as amended by section 821b, is further amended by 
    adding at the end the following new item:

``2339. Micro-purchase threshold for basic research programs and 
          activities of the Department of Defense science and technology 
          reinvention laboratories.''.

    (b) Increased Micro-purchase Threshold for Universities, 
Independent Research Institutes, and Nonprofit Research 
Organizations.--Section 1902 of title 41, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``For purposes'' and inserting ``(1) Except 
        as provided in sections 2338 and 2339 of title 10 and paragraph 
        (2) of this subsection, for purposes''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) For purposes of this section, the micro-purchase threshold 
for procurement activities administered under sections 6303 through 
6305 of title 31 by institutions of higher education (as defined in 
section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001(a)), 
or related or affiliated nonprofit entities, or by nonprofit research 
organizations or independent research institutes is--
        ``(A) $10,000; or
        ``(B) such higher threshold as determined appropriate by the 
    head of the relevant executive agency and consistent with clean 
    audit findings under chapter 75 of title 31, internal institutional 
    risk assessment, or State law.''; and
        (2) in subsections (d) and (e), by striking ``not greater than 
    $3,000'' and inserting ``with a price not greater than the micro-
    purchase threshold''.
    SEC. 218. IMPROVED BIOSAFETY FOR HANDLING OF SELECT AGENTS AND 
      TOXINS.
    (a) Quality Control and Quality Assurance Program.--The Secretary 
of Defense, acting through the executive agent for the biological 
select agent and toxin biosafety program of the Department of Defense, 
shall carry out a program to implement certain quality control and 
quality assurance measures at each covered facility.
    (b) Quality Control and Quality Assurance Measures.--Subject to 
subsection (c), the quality control and quality assurance measures 
implemented at each covered facility under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Designation of an external manager to oversee quality 
    assurance and quality control.
        (2) Environmental sampling and inspection.
        (3) Production procedures that prohibit operations where live 
    biological select agents and toxins are used in the same laboratory 
    where viability testing is conducted.
        (4) Production procedures that prohibit work on multiple 
    organisms or multiple strains of one organism within the same 
    biosafety cabinet.
        (5) A video surveillance program that uses video monitoring as 
    a tool to improve laboratory practices in accordance with 
    regulatory requirements.
        (6) Formal, recurring data reviews of production in an effort 
    to identify data trends and nonconformance issues before such 
    issues affect end products.
        (7) Validated protocols for production processes to ensure that 
    process deviations are adequately vetted prior to implementation.
        (8) Maintenance and calibration procedures and schedules for 
    all tools, equipment, and irradiators.
    (c) Waiver.--In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the 
Secretary may waive any of the quality control and quality assurance 
measures required under subsection (b) in the interest of national 
defense.
    (d) Study and Report Required.--
        (1) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a study to 
    evaluate--
            (A) the feasibility of consolidating covered facilities 
        within a unified command to minimize risk;
            (B) opportunities to partner with industry for the 
        production of biological select agents and toxins and related 
        services in lieu of maintaining such capabilities within the 
        Department of the Army; and
            (C) whether operations under the biological select agent 
        and toxin production program should be transferred to another 
        government or commercial laboratory that may be better suited 
        to execute production for non-Department of Defense customers.
        (2) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2017, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    the results of the study under paragraph (1).
    (e) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than September 1, 2017, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
        (1) A review of--
            (A) the actions taken by the Department of Defense to 
        address the findings and recommendations of the report of the 
        Department of the Army titled ``Individual and Institutional 
        Accountability for the Shipment of Viable Bacillus Anthracis 
        from Dugway Proving Grounds'', dated December 15, 2015, 
        including any actions taken to address the culture of 
        complacency in the biological select agent and toxin production 
        program identified in such report; and
            (B) the progress of the Secretary in carrying out the 
        program under subsection (a).
        (2) An analysis of the study and report under subsection (d).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``biological select agent and toxin'' means any 
    agent or toxin identified under--
            (A) section 331.3 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations;
            (B) section 121.3 or section 121.4 of title 9, Code of 
        Federal Regulations; or
            (C) section 73.3 or section 73.4 of title 42, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.
        (2) The term ``covered facility'' means any facility of the 
    Department of Defense that produces biological select agents and 
    toxins.
    SEC. 219. DESIGNATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SENIOR OFFICIAL WITH 
      PRINCIPAL RESPONSIBILITY FOR DIRECTED ENERGY WEAPONS.
    (a) Designation of Senior Official.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate a 
    senior official already serving within the Department of Defense as 
    the official with principal responsibility for the development and 
    demonstration of directed energy weapons for the Department.
        (2) Development of strategic plan.--
            (A) In general.--The senior official designated under 
        paragraph (1) shall develop a detailed strategic plan to 
        develop, mature, and transition directed energy technologies to 
        acquisition programs of record.
            (B) Roadmap.--Such strategic plan shall include a strategic 
        roadmap for the development and fielding of directed energy 
        weapons and key enabling capabilities for the Department, 
        identifying and coordinating efforts across military 
        departments to achieve overall joint mission effectiveness.
        (3) Acceleration of development and fielding of directed energy 
    weapons capabilities.--
            (A) In general.--To the degree practicable, the senior 
        official designated under paragraph (1) shall use the 
        flexibility of the policies of the Department in effect on the 
        day before the date of the enactment of this Act, or any 
        successor policies, to accelerate the development and fielding 
        of directed energy capabilities.
            (B) Engagement.--The Secretary shall use the flexibility of 
        the policies of the Department in effect on the day before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act, or any successor policies, 
        to ensure engagement with defense and private industries, 
        research universities, and unaffiliated, nonprofit research 
        institutions.
        (4) Advice for exercises and demonstrations.--The senior 
    official designated under paragraph (1) shall, to the degree 
    practicable, provide technical advice and support to entities in 
    the Department of Defense and the military departments conducting 
    exercises or demonstrations with the purpose of improving the 
    capabilities of or operational viability of technical capabilities 
    supporting directed energy weapons, including supporting military 
    utility assessments of the relevant cost and benefits of directed 
    energy weapon systems.
        (5) Support for development of requirements.--The senior 
    official designated under paragraph (1) shall coordinate with the 
    military departments, Defense Agencies, and the Joint Directed 
    Energy Transition Office to define requirements for directed energy 
    capabilities that address the highest priority warfighting 
    capability gaps of the Department.
        (6) Availability of information.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall ensure that the senior official designated under paragraph 
    (1) has access to such information on programs and activities of 
    the military departments and other defense agencies as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate to coordinate departmental directed 
    energy efforts.
    (b) Joint Directed Energy Transition Office.--
        (1) Redesignation.--The High Energy Laser Joint Technology 
    Office of the Department of Defense is hereby redesignated as the 
    ``Joint Directed Energy Transition Office'' (in this subsection 
    referred to as the ``Office''), and shall report to the official 
    designated under subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Additional functions.--In addition to the functions and 
    duties of the Office in effect on the day before the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Office shall assist the senior official 
    designated under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) in carrying out 
    paragraphs (2) through (5) of such subsection.
        (3) Funding.--The Secretary may make available such funds to 
    the Office for basic research, applied research, advanced 
    technology development, prototyping, studies and analyses, and 
    organizational support as the Secretary considers appropriate to 
    support the efficient and effective development of directed energy 
    systems and technologies and transition of those systems and 
    technologies into acquisition programs or operational use.
    SEC. 220. RESTRUCTURING OF THE DISTRIBUTED COMMON GROUND SYSTEM OF 
      THE ARMY.
    (a) In General.--Not later that April 1, 2017, the Secretary of the 
Army shall restructure versions of the distributed common ground system 
of the Army after Increment 1--
        (1) by discontinuing development of new software code, 
    excluding the configuration and testing of system interfaces to 
    commercial, open source, and existing Government off the shelf 
    (GOTS) software, of any component of the system for which there is 
    commercial, open source, or Government off the shelf software that 
    is capable of fulfilling at least 80 percent of the system 
    requirements applicable to such component; and
        (2) by conducting a review of the acquisition strategy of the 
    program to ensure that procurement of commercial software is the 
    preferred method of meeting program requirements for major system 
    components.
    (b) Limitation.--The Secretary of the Army shall not award any 
contract for the development of new component software capability for 
the distributed common ground system of the Army if such a capability 
is already a commercial item or open source, except for configuration 
of capabilities that are incidental to and necessary for the proper 
functioning of the system.
    (c) Report Required.--
        (1) Requirement.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics, in 
    consultation with the Director, Operational Test and Evaluation, 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    the Increment 2 of the distributed common ground system of the 
    Army.
        (2) Elements of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
    shall include, at a minimum, the following:
            (A) The overall assessment of the system and each 
        individual major component of the system.
            (B) The status of alignment with the Intelligence Community 
        Information Technology Enterprise (IC-ITE).
            (C) The ease of use of Increment 2 as compared with 
        Increment 1 for operators in deployed environments.
            (D) The extent to which a common, synchronized view of all 
        system data is globally available to all system users, at all 
        times.
            (E) The level of maturity of the technologies underlying 
        core system components and application programming interfaces.
            (F) The extent to which program operators can move data 
        seamlessly between different components of the system.
    SEC. 221. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE COUNTERING 
      WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION SYSTEM CONSTELLATION.
    (a) Limitation.--Not more than 50 percent of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
year 2017 for the countering weapons of mass destruction situational 
awareness information system commonly known as ``Constellation'' may be 
obligated or expended for research, development, or prototyping for 
such system until the report required by subsection (b)(4) has been 
delivered to the congressional defense committees.
    (b) Independent Review and Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for an 
    independent review and assessment of the requirements and 
    implementation for research, development, and prototyping for the 
    Constellation system prior to a Milestone A decision or other 
    operational use.
        (2) Elements of independent review.--The independent review 
    provided for under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) A review of the major software components of the system 
        and an explanation of the requirements of the Department of 
        Defense with respect to each such component.
            (B) A review of the requirements validated in the 
        Information System Initial Capabilities Document (ISICD) and 
        capability gaps identified for duplication and redundancy with 
        other validated information technology requirements and 
        capability gaps.
            (C) Identification of elements and applications of the 
        system that cannot be implemented using the existing technical 
        infrastructure and tools of the Department of Defense or the 
        infrastructure and tools in development.
            (D) An overview of a security plan to achieve an accredited 
        cross-domain solution system, including security milestones and 
        proposed security architecture to mitigate both insider and 
        outsider threats.
            (E) Identification of the planned categories of end-users 
        of the system, linked to organizations, mission requirements, 
        and concept of operations, the expected total number of end-
        users, and the associated permissions granted to such users.
        (3) Entity conducting independent review and assessment.--The 
    Secretary shall ensure that--
            (A) the independent review and assessment provided for 
        under paragraph (1) is conducted by a federally funded research 
        and development center selected (or entered into an arrangement 
        with) by the Secretary or such other entity as the Secretary 
        considers appropriate; and
            (B) such center or entity provides periodic updates to the 
        congressional defense committees on such independent review and 
        assessment prior to the completion of the independent review 
        and assessment.
        (4) Report on independent review and assessment.--The Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
    containing--
            (A) the findings of the center or entity selected (or 
        entered into an arrangement with) under paragraph (3)(A) with 
        respect to the independent review and assessment conducted by 
        such center or entity pursuant to such paragraph; and
            (B) an assessment of the need to continue Constellation 
        research, development, and prototyping.
    SEC. 222. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DEFENSE 
      INNOVATION UNIT EXPERIMENTAL.
    (a) Limitation.--
        (1) Operation and maintenance.--Of the funds specified in 
    subsection (c)(1), not more than 75 percent may be obligated or 
    expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits 
    to the congressional defense committees the report under subsection 
    (b).
        (2) Research, development, test, and evaluation.--Of the funds 
    specified in subsection (c)(2), not more than 25 percent may be 
    obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary submits 
    to the congressional defense committees the report under subsection 
    (b).
    (b) Report Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the Defense Innovation 
Unit Experimental. Such report shall include the following:
        (1) The charter and mission statement of the Unit.
        (2) A description of--
            (A) the management and operations of the Unit, including--
                (i) the governance structure of the Unit;
                (ii) the process for coordinating and deconflicting the 
            activities of the Unit with similar activities of the Small 
            Business Innovation Research Program, military departments, 
            Defense Agencies, and other departments and agencies of the 
            Federal Government, including activities carried out by In-
            Q-Tel, the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, and 
            Department of Defense laboratories;
                (iii) the direct staffing requirements of the Unit, 
            including a description of the desired skills and expertise 
            of such staff at each location;
                (iv) the number of civilian and military personnel 
            provided by the military departments and Defense Agencies 
            to support the Unit; and
                (v) any planned expansion to new sites, the metrics 
            used to identify such sites, and an explanation of how such 
            expansion will provide access to innovations of 
            nontraditional defense contractors (as such term is defined 
            in section 2302 of title 10, United States Code) that are 
            not otherwise accessible; and
            (B) policies and practices that will enable the Unit to 
        best support Department of Defense missions, including--
                (i) the metrics used to measure the effectiveness of 
            the Unit;
                (ii) how compliance with Department of Defense or 
            Federal Government requirements could affect the ability of 
            nontraditional defense contractors (as such term is defined 
            in section 2302 of title 10, United States Code) to market 
            products and obtain funding;
                (iii) how to treat intellectual property that has been 
            developed with little or no government funding;
                (iv) detailed justification for the expansion of the 
            mission of the Unit, including authority to use research 
            and development agreements, contracts, and merit-based 
            prize competitions to explore emerging technologies and 
            additional physical locations;
                (v) a description of how existing Department of Defense 
            agencies, services, entities, and other elements are 
            authorized to better use streamlined acquisition 
            procedures, research and development agreements, contracts, 
            and merit-based prize competitions to explore emerging 
            technologies, including modification of guidance and 
            procedures to permit effective and streamlined 
            implementation of authorities provided by Congress for 
            rapid execution;
                (vi) an account of the successes and failures of 
            contracts already awarded by the unit;
                (vii) recommendations on practices, policies, and 
            authorities that will permit increased public-private 
            partnership in financing and funding of research and 
            technology development efforts; and
                (viii) a description of technology transition 
            strategies to ensure that research and technology programs 
            funded by the Unit will be effectively and efficiently 
            transitioned into operational use or acquisition programs, 
            including a description of the role of Defense laboratories 
            in such technology transition efforts.
        (3) Any other information the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Funds Specified.--The funds specified in this subsection are as 
follows:
        (1) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
    otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for operation and 
    maintenance, Defense-wide, for the Defense Innovation Unit 
    Experimental.
        (2) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
    otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for research, 
    development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, for the Defense 
    Innovation Unit Experimental.
    SEC. 223. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR JOINT 
      SURVEILLANCE TARGET ATTACK RADAR SYSTEM (JSTARS) RECAPITALIZATION 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 or any other fiscal year for the Air 
Force may be made available for the Air Force's Joint Surveillance 
Target Attack Radar System (JSTARS) recapitalization program unless the 
contract for engineering and manufacturing development uses a firm 
fixed-price contract structure.
    (b) National Security Waiver Authority.--The Secretary of Defense 
may waive the limitation in subsection (a) if the Secretary determines 
that such a waiver is in the national security interests of the United 
States.
    SEC. 224. ACQUISITION PROGRAM BASELINE AND ANNUAL REPORTS ON 
      FOLLOW-ON MODERNIZATION PROGRAM FOR F-35 JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER.
    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may not award any follow-
on modernization development contracts for the F-35 Joint Strike 
Fighter until the Secretary has submitted the report required by 
subsection (b)(1) in accordance with such subsection.
    (b) Acquisition Program Baseline.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2017, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report that contains the basic elements of an acquisition program 
    baseline for Block 4 Modernization.
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Cost estimates for development, production, and 
        modification.
            (B) Projected key schedule dates, including dates for the 
        completion of--
                (i) a capabilities development document;
                (ii) an independent cost estimate;
                (iii) an initial preliminary design review;
                (iv) a development contract award; and
                (v) a critical design review.
            (C) Technical performance parameters.
            (D) Technology readiness levels.
            (E) Annual funding profiles for development and 
        procurement.
    (c) Review by Comptroller General of the United States.--Not later 
than 60 days after the date on which the report required by subsection 
(b)(1) is submitted to the congressional defense committees in 
accordance with such subsection, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall--
        (1) review such report; and
        (2) brief the congressional defense committees on the findings 
    of the Comptroller General with respect to such review.
    (d) Annual Reports by Secretary of Defense.--Not later than one 
year after the date on which the Secretary awards a development 
contract for follow-on modernization of the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter 
and not less frequently than once each year thereafter until March 31, 
2023, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the cost, schedule, and performance progress 
against the baseline set forth in the report submitted pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1).

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 231. STRATEGY FOR ASSURED ACCESS TO TRUSTED MICROELECTRONICS.
    (a) Strategy.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a strategy to 
ensure that the Department of Defense has assured access to trusted 
microelectronics by not later than September 30, 2019.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) Definitions of the various levels of trust required by 
    classes of Department of Defense systems.
        (2) Means of classifying systems of the Department of Defense 
    based on the level of trust such systems are required to maintain 
    with respect to microelectronics.
        (3) Means by which trust in microelectronics can be assured.
        (4) Means to increase the supplier base for assured 
    microelectronics to ensure multiple supply pathways.
        (5) An assessment of the microelectronics needs of the 
    Department of Defense in future years, including the need for 
    trusted, radiation-hardened microelectronics.
        (6) An assessment of the microelectronic needs of the 
    Department of Defense that may not be fulfilled by entities outside 
    the Department of Defense.
        (7) The resources required to assure access to trusted 
    microelectronics, including infrastructure, workforce, and 
    investments in science and technology.
        (8) A research and development strategy to ensure that the 
    Department of Defense can, to the maximum extent practicable, use 
    state of the art commercial microelectronics capabilities or their 
    equivalent, while satisfying the needs for trust.
        (9) Recommendations for changes in authorities, regulations, 
    and practices, including acquisition policies, financial 
    management, public-private partnership policies, or in any other 
    relevant areas, that would support the achievement of the goals of 
    the strategy.
    (c) Submission and Updates.--(1) Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees the strategy developed under 
subsection (a). The strategy shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
but may include a classified annex.
    (2) Not later than two years after submitting the strategy under 
paragraph (1) and not less frequently than once every two years 
thereafter until September 30, 2024, the Secretary shall update the 
strategy as the Secretary considers appropriate to support Department 
of Defense missions.
    (d) Directive Required.--Not later than September 30, 2019, the 
Secretary of Defense shall issue a directive for the Department of 
Defense describing how Department of Defense entities may access 
assured and trusted microelectronics supply chains for Department of 
Defense systems.
    (e) Report and Certification.--Not later than September 30, 2020, 
the Secretary of the Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees--
        (1) a report on--
            (A) the status of the implementation of the strategy 
        developed under subsection (a);
            (B) the actions being taken to achieve full implementation 
        of such strategy, and a timeline for such implementation; and
            (C) the status of the implementation of the directive 
        required by subsection (d); and
        (2) a certification of whether the Department of Defense has an 
    assured means for accessing a sufficient supply of trusted 
    microelectronics, as required by the strategy developed under 
    subsection (a).
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``assured'' refers, with respect to 
    microelectronics, to the ability of the Department of Defense to 
    guarantee availability of microelectronics parts at the necessary 
    volumes and with the performance characteristics required to meet 
    the needs of the Department of Defense.
        (2) The terms ``trust'' and ``trusted'' refer, with respect to 
    microelectronics, to the ability of the Department of Defense to 
    have confidence that the microelectronics function as intended and 
    are free of exploitable vulnerabilities, either intentionally or 
    unintentionally designed or inserted as part of the system at any 
    time during its life cycle.
    SEC. 232. PILOT PROGRAM ON EVALUATION OF COMMERCIAL INFORMATION 
      TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Pilot Program.--The Director of the Defense Information Systems 
Agency may carry out a pilot program to evaluate commercially available 
information technology tools to better understand the potential impact 
of such tools on networks and computing environments of the Department 
of Defense.
    (b) Activities.--Activities under the pilot program may include the 
following:
        (1) Prototyping, experimentation, operational demonstration, 
    military user assessments, and other means of obtaining 
    quantitative and qualitative feedback on the commercial information 
    technology products.
        (2) Engagement with the commercial information technology 
    industry to--
            (A) forecast military requirements and technology needs; 
        and
            (B) support the development of market strategies and 
        program requirements before finalizing acquisition decisions 
        and strategies.
        (3) Assessment of novel or innovative commercial technology for 
    use by the Department of Defense.
        (4) Assessment of novel or innovative contracting mechanisms to 
    speed delivery of capabilities to the Armed Forces.
        (5) Solicitation of operational user input to shape future 
    information technology requirements of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized 
to be appropriated for research, development, test, and evaluation, 
Defense-wide, for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2022, not more than 
$15,000,000 may be expended on the pilot program in any such fiscal 
year.
    SEC. 233. PILOT PROGRAM FOR THE ENHANCEMENT OF THE RESEARCH, 
      DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION CENTERS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE.
    (a) Pilot Program Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and the secretaries 
    of the military departments shall jointly carry out a pilot program 
    to demonstrate methods for the more effective development of 
    technology and management of functions at eligible centers.
        (2) Eligible centers.--For purposes of the pilot program, the 
    eligible centers are--
            (A) the science and technology reinvention laboratories, as 
        specified in section 1105(a) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note);
            (B) the test and evaluation centers which are activities 
        specified as part of the Major Range and Test Facility Base in 
        Department of Defense Directive 3200.11; and
            (C) the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency.
    (b) Selection.--
        (1) In general.--The secretaries described in subsection (a) 
    shall ensure that participation in the pilot program includes--
            (A) the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency; and
            (B) in accordance with paragraph (2)--
                (i) five additional eligible centers described in 
            subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(2) from each of the 
            military departments; and
                (ii) five additional eligible centers described in 
            subparagraph (B) of such subsection from each of the 
            military departments.
        (2) Selection procedures.--(A) The head of an eligible center 
    described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(2) seeking 
    to participate in the pilot program shall submit to the appropriate 
    reviewer an application therefor at such time, in such manner, and 
    containing such information as the appropriate reviewer shall 
    specify.
        (B) Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, each appropriate reviewer shall--
            (i) evaluate each application received under subparagraph 
        (A); and
            (ii) approve or disapprove of the application.
        (C) If the head of an eligible center submits an application 
    under subparagraph (A) in accordance with the requirements 
    specified by the appropriate reviewer for purposes of such 
    subparagraph and the appropriate reviewer neither approves nor 
    disapproves such application pursuant to subparagraph (B)(ii) on or 
    before the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, such eligible center shall be considered a participant in 
    the pilot program.
        (D) For purposes of this paragraph, the appropriate reviewer 
    is--
            (i) in the case of an eligible center described in 
        subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(2), the Laboratory Quality 
        Enhancement Program; and
            (ii) in the case of an eligible center described in 
        subparagraph (B) of such subsection, the Director of the Test 
        Resource Management Center.
    (c) Participation in Program.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the head of each 
    eligible center selected under subsection (b)(1) shall propose and 
    implement alternative and innovative methods of effective 
    management and operations of eligible centers, rapid project 
    delivery, support, experimentation, prototyping, and partnership 
    with universities and private sector entities to--
            (A) generate greater value and efficiencies in research and 
        development activities;
            (B) enable more efficient and effective operations of 
        supporting activities, such as--
                (i) facility management, construction, and repair;
                (ii) business operations;
                (iii) personnel management policies and practices; and
                (iv) intramural and public outreach; and
            (C) enable more rapid deployment of warfighter 
        capabilities.
        (2) Implementation.--(A) The head of an eligible center 
    described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(2) shall 
    implement each method proposed under paragraph (1) unless such 
    method is disapproved in writing by the Assistant Secretary 
    concerned within 60 days of receiving a proposal from an eligible 
    center selected under subsection (b)(1) by such Assistant 
    Secretary.
        (B) The Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
    Agency shall implement each method proposed under paragraph (1) 
    unless such method is disapproved in writing by the Chief 
    Management Officer within 60 days of receiving a proposal from the 
    Director.
        (C) In this paragraph, the term ``Assistant Secretary 
    concerned'' means--
            (i) the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
        Acquisition, with respect to matters concerning the Air Force;
            (ii) the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics, with respect to matters concerning 
        the Army; and
            (iii) the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, 
        Development, and Acquisition, with respect to matters 
        concerning the Navy.
    (d) Waiver Authority for Demonstration and Implementation.--Until 
the termination of the pilot program under subsection (e), the head of 
an eligible center selected under subsection (b)(1) may waive any 
regulation, restriction, requirement, guidance, policy, procedure, or 
departmental instruction that would affect the implementation of a 
method proposed under subsection (c)(1), unless such implementation 
would be prohibited by a provision of a Federal statute or common law.
    (e) Termination.--The pilot program shall terminate on September 
30, 2022.
    (f) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the pilot program.
        (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Identification of the eligible centers participating in 
        the pilot program.
            (B) Identification of the eligible centers whose 
        applications to participate in the pilot program were 
        disapproved under subsection (b), including justifications for 
        such disapprovals.
            (C) A description of the methods implemented pursuant to 
        subsection (c).
            (D) A description of the methods that were proposed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (c) but disapproved 
        under paragraph (2) of such subsection.
            (E) An assessment of how methods implemented pursuant to 
        subsection (c) have contributed to the objectives identified in 
        subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) of such 
        subsection.
    SEC. 234. PILOT PROGRAM ON MODERNIZATION AND FIELDING OF 
      ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM WARFARE SYSTEMS AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE 
      CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
    program on the modernization and fielding of electromagnetic 
    spectrum warfare systems and electronic warfare systems.
        (2) Selection.--If the Secretary carries out the pilot program 
    under paragraph (1), the Electronic Warfare Executive Committee 
    shall select from the list described in section 240(b)(4) a total 
    of 10 electromagnetic spectrum warfare systems and electronic 
    warfare systems across at least two military departments for 
    modernization and fielding under the pilot program.
    (b) Termination.--The pilot program authorized by subsection (a) 
shall terminate on September 30, 2023.
    (c) Funding.--For the purposes of this pilot program, funds 
authorized to be appropriated for electromagnetic spectrum warfare and 
electronic warfare may be used for the development and fielding of 
electromagnetic spectrum warfare systems and electronic warfare 
capabilities.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``electromagnetic spectrum warfare'' means 
    electronic warfare that encompasses military communications and 
    sensing operations that occur in the electromagnetic operational 
    domain.
        (2) The term ``electronic warfare'' means military action 
    involving the use of electromagnetic and directed energy to control 
    the electromagnetic spectrum or to attack the enemy.
    SEC. 235. PILOT PROGRAM ON DISCLOSURE OF CERTAIN SENSITIVE 
      INFORMATION TO FEDERALLY FUNDED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a pilot 
program on--
        (1) permitting officers and employees of the Department of 
    Defense to disclose sensitive information to federally funded 
    research and development centers of the Department for the sole 
    purpose of the performance of administrative, technical, or 
    professional services under and within the scope of the contracts 
    with the parent organizations of such federally funded research and 
    development centers; and
        (2) appropriately protecting proprietary information from 
    unauthorized disclosure or use by such centers.
    (b) FFRDCs.--The pilot program shall be carried out with one or 
more federally funded research and development centers of the 
Department selected by the Secretary for participation in the pilot 
program.
    (c) FFRDC Personnel.--Sensitive information may be disclosed to 
personnel of a federally funded research and development center under 
the pilot program only if such personnel and contractors agree to be 
subject to, and comply with, appropriate ethics standards and 
requirements applicable to Government personnel, including the Ethics 
in Government Act of 1978, section 1905 of title 18, United States 
Code, and chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code.
    (d) Conditions on Disclosure.--Sensitive information may be 
disclosed under the pilot program only if the federally funded research 
and development center concerned and its parent organization agree to 
and acknowledge in the parent organization's contract with the 
Department of Defense that--
        (1) sensitive information furnished to the federally funded 
    research and development center will be accessed and used only for 
    the purposes stated in the contract between the parent organization 
    of the federally funded research and development center and the 
    Department of Defense;
        (2) the federally funded research and development center will 
    take all precautions necessary to prevent disclosure of the 
    sensitive information furnished to anyone not authorized access to 
    the information in order to perform the applicable contract;
        (3) sensitive information furnished under the pilot program 
    shall not be used by the federally funded research and development 
    center or parent organization to compete against a third party for 
    a Government or non-Government contract or funding, or to support 
    other current or future research or technology development 
    activities performed by the federally funded research and 
    development center; and
        (4) any personnel of a federally funded research and 
    development center participating in the pilot program may not 
    disclose or use any trade secrets or any nonpublic information 
    accessed under the pilot program, unless specifically authorized by 
    this section.
    (e) Duration.--(1) The pilot program may commence at any time after 
the review and issuance of policy guidance, updated appropriately, 
pertaining to the identification, mitigation, and prevention of 
potentially unfair competitive advantage conferred to federally funded 
research and development center personnel with access to sensitive 
information who serve as technical advisors to acquisition programs.
    (2) The pilot program shall terminate on the date that is three 
years after the date of the commencement of the pilot program.
    (f) Assessment.--Not later than two years after the commencement of 
the pilot program, the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report on the pilot program, including an 
assessment of the effectiveness of activities under the pilot program 
in improving acquisition processes and the effectiveness of protections 
of private-sector intellectual property in the course of such 
activities.
    (g) Sensitive Information Defined.--In this section, the term 
``sensitive information'' means confidential commercial, financial, or 
proprietary information, technical data, contract performance, contract 
performance evaluation, management, and administration data, or other 
privileged information owned by other contractors of the Department of 
Defense that is exempt from public disclosure under section 552(b)(4) 
of title 5, United States Code, or which would otherwise be prohibited 
from disclosure under section 1832 or 1905 of title 18, United States 
Code.
    SEC. 236. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED INTERACTION BETWEEN THE DEFENSE 
      ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY AND THE SERVICE ACADEMIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the 
Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, shall carry 
out a pilot program to enhance interaction between the Defense Advanced 
Research Projects Agency and the service academies to promote 
technology transition, education, and training in science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics fields that are relevant to the Department 
of Defense.
    (b) Awards of Funds.--(1) In carrying out the pilot program, the 
Secretary, acting through the Director, shall provide funds to 
contractors and grantees of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
Agency in order to encourage such contractors and grantees to develop 
research partnerships with the service academies to support more 
efficient and effective technology transition of research programs and 
products.
    (2) It shall be the responsibility of the Director to ensure that 
such funds are used effectively and that sufficient efforts are made to 
build appropriate partnerships.
    (c) Service Academy Technology Transition Networks.--In carrying 
out the pilot program, the Director shall prioritize the leveraging 
of--
        (1) the technology transition networks that service academies 
    maintain among their academic departments and resident research 
    centers; and
        (2) partnerships with Department of Defense laboratories, other 
    Federal degree granting institutions, academia, and industry.
    (d) Termination.--The authority to carry out the pilot program 
shall terminate on September 30, 2020.
    (e) Service Academies Defined.--In this section, the term ``service 
academies'' means the following:
        (1) The United States Military Academy.
        (2) The United States Naval Academy.
        (3) Th United States Air Force Academy.
        (4) The United States Coast Guard Academy.
        (5) The United States Merchant Marine Academy.
    SEC. 237. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF F/A-18 PHYSIOLOGICAL EPISODES AND 
      CORRECTIVE ACTIONS.
    (a) Independent Review Required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
conduct an independent review of the plans, programs, and research of 
the Department of the Navy with respect to--
        (1) physiological events affecting aircrew of the F/A-18 Hornet 
    and the F/A-18 Super Hornet aircraft during the covered period; and
        (2) the efforts of the Navy and Marine Corps to prevent and 
    mitigate the affects of such physiological events.
    (b) Conduct of Review.--In conducting the review under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of the Navy shall--
        (1) designate an appropriate senior official in the Office of 
    the Secretary of the Navy to oversee the review; and
        (2) consult experts from outside the Department of Defense in 
    appropriate technical and medical fields.
    (c) Review Elements.--The review under subsection (a) shall include 
an evaluation of--
        (1) any data of the Department of the Navy relating to the 
    increased frequency of physiological events affecting aircrew of 
    the F/A-18 Hornet and the F/A-18 Super Hornet aircraft during the 
    covered period;
        (2) aircraft mishaps potentially related to such physiological 
    events;
        (3) the cost and effectiveness of all material, operational, 
    maintenance, and other measures carried out by the Department of 
    the Navy to mitigate such physiological events during the covered 
    period;
        (4) material, operational, maintenance, or other measures that 
    may reduce the rate of such physiological events in the future; and
        (5) the performance of--
            (A) the onboard oxygen generation system in the F/A-18 
        Super Hornet;
            (B) the overall environmental control system in the F/A-18 
        Hornet and F/A-18 Super Hornet; and
            (C) other relevant subsystems of the F/A-18 Hornet and F/A-
        18 Super Hornet, as determined by the Secretary.
    (d) Report Required.--Not later than December 1, 2017, the 
Secretary of Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
a report that includes the results of the review under subsection (a).
    (e) Covered Period.--In this section, the term ``covered period'' 
means the period beginning on January 1, 2009, and ending on the date 
of the submission of the report under subsection (d).
    SEC. 238. B-21 BOMBER DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM ACCOUNTABILITY MATRICES.
    (a) Submittal of Matrices.--Concurrent with the President's annual 
budget request submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, 
United States Code, for fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of the Air 
Forces shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the 
Comptroller General of the United States the matrices described in 
subsection (b) relating to the B-21 bomber aircraft program.
    (b) Matrices Described.--The matrices described in this subsection 
are the following:
        (1) EMD goals.--A matrix that identifies, in six month 
    increments, key milestones, development events, and specific 
    performance goals for the EMD phase of the B-21 bomber aircraft 
    program, which shall be subdivided, at a minimum, according to the 
    following:
            (A) Technology readiness levels of major components and key 
        demonstration events.
            (B) Design maturity.
            (C) Software maturity.
            (D) Manufacturing readiness levels for critical 
        manufacturing operations and key demonstration events.
            (E) Manufacturing operations.
            (F) System verification and key flight test events.
            (G) Reliability.
        (2) Cost.--A matrix expressing, in six month increments, the 
    total cost for the Air Force service cost position for the EMD 
    phase and low initial rate of production lots of the B-21 bomber 
    aircraft and a matrix expressing the total cost for the prime 
    contractor's estimate for such EMD phase and production lots, both 
    of which shall be phased over the entire EMD period and subdivided 
    according to the costs of the following:
            (A) Air vehicle.
            (B) Propulsion.
            (C) Mission systems.
            (D) Vehicle subsystems.
            (E) Air vehicle software.
            (F) Systems engineering.
            (G) Program management.
            (H) System test and evaluation.
            (I) Support and training systems.
            (J) Contract fee.
            (K) Engineering changes.
            (L) Direct mission support, including Congressional General 
        Reductions.
            (M) Government testing.
    (c) Semiannual Update of Matrices.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the Secretary of the Air Force submits the matrices required 
    by subsection (a), concurrent with the submittal of each annual 
    budget request to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, United 
    States Code, thereafter, and not later than 180 days after each 
    such submittal, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees and the Comptroller General of the 
    United States updates to the matrices described in subsection (b).
        (2) Elements.--Each update submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    detail progress made toward the goals identified in the matrix 
    described in subsection (b)(1) and provide updated cost estimates.
        (3) Treatment of initial matrices as baseline.--The matrices 
    submitted pursuant to subsection (a) shall be treated as the 
    baseline for the full EMD phase and low rate initial production of 
    the B-21 bomber aircraft program for purposes of the updates 
    submitted pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (d) Assessment by Comptroller General of the United States.--Not 
later than the date that is 45 days after the date on which the 
Comptroller General of the United States receives an update to a matrix 
under subsection (d)(1), the Comptroller General shall review the 
sufficiency of such matrix and submit to the congressional defense 
committees an assessment of such matrix, including by identifying cost, 
schedule, or performance trends.
    SEC. 239. STUDY ON HELICOPTER CRASH PREVENTION AND MITIGATION 
      TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into a contract with a federally funded research and development center 
to conduct a study on technologies with the potential to prevent and 
mitigate helicopter crashes.
    (b) Elements.--The study required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) Identification of technologies with the potential--
            (A) to prevent helicopter crashes (such as collision 
        avoidance technologies and battle space and terrain situational 
        awareness technologies); and
            (B) to improve survivability among individuals involved in 
        such crashes (such as adaptive flight control technologies and 
        improved energy absorbing technologies).
        (2) A cost-benefit analysis of each technology identified under 
    paragraph (1) that takes into account the cost of developing and 
    deploying the technology compared to the potential of the 
    technology to prevent casualties or injuries.
        (3) A list that ranks the technologies identified under 
    paragraph (1) based on--
            (A) the results of the cost-benefit analysis under 
        paragraph (2); and
            (B) the readiness level of each technology.
        (4) An analysis of helicopter crashes that--
            (A) compares the casualty rates of cockpit occupants to the 
        casualty rates of occupants of cargo compartments and troop 
        seats; and
            (B) identifies the root causes of the casualties described 
        in subparagraph (A).
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives (and the 
other congressional defense committees on request) a briefing that 
includes--
        (1) the results of the study required under subsection (a); and
        (2) the list described in subsection (b)(3).
    SEC. 240. STRATEGY FOR IMPROVING ELECTRONIC AND ELECTROMAGNETIC 
      SPECTRUM WARFARE CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than April 1, 2017, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology and Logistics, acting 
through the Electronic Warfare Executive Committee, shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a strategy on the electronic and 
electromagnetic spectrum warfare capabilities of the Department of 
Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A strategy for advancing and accelerating research, 
    development, test, and evaluation, and fielding, of electronic 
    warfare capabilities to meet current and projected requirements, 
    including intra-service ground and air interoperabilities, as well 
    as recommendations for streamlining acquisition processes with 
    respect to such capabilities.
        (2) A methodology for synchronizing and overseeing electronic 
    warfare strategies, operational concepts, and programs across the 
    Department of Defense, including electronic warfare programs that 
    support or enable cyber operations.
        (3) A description of the training and operational support 
    required for fielding and sustaining current and planned 
    investments in electronic warfare capabilities, including the 
    requirements for conducting large-scale simulated exercises and 
    training in contested electronic warfare environments.
        (4) A comprehensive list of investments of the Department of 
    Defense in electronic warfare capabilities, including the 
    capabilities to be developed, procured, or sustained in--
            (A) the budget of the President for fiscal year 2018 
        submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
        States Code; and
            (B) the future-years defense program submitted to Congress 
        under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, for that 
        fiscal year.
        (5) A description of the threat environment for electromagnetic 
    spectrum for current and future warfare needs.
        (6) An assessment of progress on increasing interoperability 
    between Services and Agencies, as well as increasing application of 
    innovative electromagnetic spectrum warfighting methods and 
    operational concepts that provide advantages within the 
    electromagnetic spectrum operational domain.
        (7) Specific attributes needed in future electronic and 
    electromagnetic spectrum warfare capabilities, such as networking, 
    adaptability, agility, multifunctionality, and miniaturization, and 
    progress toward incorporating such attributes in new electronic 
    warfare systems.
        (8) Capability gaps with respect to asymmetric and near-peer 
    adversaries identified pursuant to a capability gap assessment.
        (9) A joint strategy on achieving near real-time system 
    adaption to rapidly advancing modern digital electronics.
        (10) Any other information the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Electronic Warfare Executive Committee Defined.--In this 
section the term ``Electronic Warfare Executive Committee'' means the 
committee established on March 17, 2015, and chartered on August 11, 
2015, by the Deputy Secretary of Defense to serve as the principal 
forum within the Department of Defense to inform, coordinate, and 
evaluate electronic warfare matters to maintain a strong technological 
advantage in United States capabilities.
    SEC. 241. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DEVELOPMENT AND FIELDING OF FIFTH 
      GENERATION AIRBORNE SYSTEMS.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The term ``fifth generation'', with respect to airborne 
    systems, means those airborne systems capable of operating 
    effectively in highly contested battle spaces defined by the most 
    capable currently fielded threats, and those reasonably expected to 
    be operational in the foreseeable future.
        (2) Continued modernization of Department of Defense airborne 
    systems such as fighters, bombers, and intelligence, surveillance, 
    and reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft with fifth generation 
    capabilities is required because--
            (A) adversary integrated air defense systems (IADS) have 
        created regions where fourth generation airborne systems may be 
        limited in their ability to effectively operate;
            (B) adversary aircraft, air-to-air missiles, and airborne 
        electronic attack or electronic protection systems are 
        advancing beyond the capabilities of fourth generation airborne 
        systems; and
            (C) fifth generation airborne systems provide a wider 
        variety of options for a given warfighting challenge, preserve 
        the technological advantage of the United States over near-peer 
        threats, and serve as a force multiplier by increasing 
        situational awareness and combat effectiveness of fourth 
        generation airborne systems.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
development and fielding of fifth generation airborne system systems 
should include the following:
        (1) Multispectral (radar, infrared, visual, emissions) low 
    observable (LO) design features, self-protection jamming, and other 
    capabilities that significantly delay or deny threat system 
    detection, tracking, and engagement.
        (2) Integrated avionics that autonomously fuse and prioritize 
    onboard multispectral sensors and offboard information data to 
    provide an accurate realtime operating picture and data download 
    for postmission exploitation and analysis.
        (3) Resilient communications, navigation, and identification 
    techniques designed to effectively counter adversary attempts to 
    deny or confuse friendly systems.
        (4) Robust and secure networks linking individual platforms to 
    create a common, accurate, and highly integrated picture of the 
    battle space for friendly forces.
        (5) Advanced onboard diagnostics capable of monitoring system 
    health, accurately reporting system faults, and increasing overall 
    system performance and reliability.
        (6) Integrated platform and subsystem designs to maximize 
    lethality and survivability while enabling decision superiority.
        (7) Maximum consideration for the fielding of unmanned 
    platforms either employed in concert with fifth generation manned 
    platforms or as standalone unmanned platforms, to increase 
    warfighting effectiveness and reduce risk to personnel during high 
    risk missions.
        (8) Advanced air-to-air, air-to-ground, and other weapons able 
    to leverage fifth generation capabilities.
        (9) Comprehensive and high-fidelity live, virtual, and 
    constructive training systems, updated range infrastructure, and 
    sufficient threat-representative adversary training assets to 
    maximize fifth generation force proficiency, effectiveness, and 
    readiness while protecting sensitive capabilities.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Modified reporting requirement related to installations energy 
          management.
Sec. 312. Waiver authority for alternative fuel procurement requirement.
Sec. 313. Utility data management for military facilities.
Sec. 314. Alternative technologies for munitions disposal.
Sec. 315. Report on efforts to reduce high energy costs at military 
          installations.
Sec. 316. Sense of Congress on funding decisions relating to climate 
          change.

                  Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 321. Revision of deployability rating system and planning reform.
Sec. 322. Revision of guidance relating to corrosion control and 
          prevention executives.
Sec. 323. Pilot program for inclusion of certain industrial plants in 
          the Armament Retooling and Manufacturing Support Initiative.
Sec. 324. Repair, recapitalization, and certification of dry docks at 
          naval shipyards.
Sec. 325. Private sector port loading assessment.
Sec. 326. Strategy on revitalizing Army organic industrial base.

                           Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Modifications to Quarterly Readiness Report to Congress.
Sec. 332. Report on average travel costs of members of the reserve 
          components.
Sec. 333. Report on HH-60G sustainment and Combat Rescue Helicopter 
          program.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Air navigation matters.
Sec. 342. Contract working dogs.
Sec. 343. Plan, funding documents, and management review relating to 
          explosive ordnance disposal.
Sec. 344. Process for communicating availability of surplus ammunition.
Sec. 345. Mitigation of risks posed by window coverings with accessible 
          cords in certain military housing units.
Sec. 346. Access to military installations by transportation companies.
Sec. 347. Access to wireless high-speed Internet and network connections 
          for certain members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 348. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the Under 
          Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
Sec. 349. Limitation on development and fielding of new camouflage and 
          utility uniforms.
Sec. 350. Plan for improved dedicated adversary air training enterprise 
          of the Air Force.
Sec. 351. Independent review and assessment of the Ready Aircrew Program 
          of the Air Force.
Sec. 352. Study on space-available travel system of the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 353. Evaluation of motor carrier safety performance and safety 
          technology.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

    SEC. 311. MODIFIED REPORTING REQUIREMENT RELATED TO INSTALLATIONS 
      ENERGY MANAGEMENT.
    Subsection (a) of section 2925 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``, Resiliency, and 
    Mission Assurance'' after ``Annual Report Related to Installations 
    Energy Management'';
        (2) by striking paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), 
    and (10);
        (3) by redesignating paragraphs (9) and (11) as paragraphs (3), 
    and (4), respectively; and
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (1), the following:
        ``(2) A description of the energy savings, return on 
    investment, and enhancements to installation mission assurance 
    realized by the fulfillment of the goals described in paragraph 
    (1).''.
    SEC. 312. WAIVER AUTHORITY FOR ALTERNATIVE FUEL PROCUREMENT 
      REQUIREMENT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the requirement 
under section 526 of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 
(Public Law 110-140; 42 U.S.C. 17142) if the Secretary determines it is 
in the national security interest of the United States.
    (b) Notification Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the congressional defense committees not later than 15 days 
after exercising the waiver authority under subsection (a).
    SEC. 313. UTILITY DATA MANAGEMENT FOR MILITARY FACILITIES.
    (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Energy, may carry out a pilot program to investigate 
the use of utility data management services to perform utility bill 
aggregation, analysis, third-party payment, storage, and distribution 
for the Department of Defense.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for operation 
and maintenance, Navy, for enterprise information, not more than 
$250,000 may be obligated or expended to carry out the pilot program 
under subsection (a).
    SEC. 314. ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGIES FOR MUNITIONS DISPOSAL.
    In carrying out the disposal of munitions in the stockpile of 
conventional munitions awaiting demilitarization and disposal, the 
Secretary of the Army may use cost-competitive technologies that 
minimize waste generation and air emissions as alternatives to disposal 
by open burning, open detonation, direct contact combustion, and 
incineration.
    SEC. 315. REPORT ON EFFORTS TO REDUCE HIGH ENERGY COSTS AT MILITARY 
      INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, in conjunction with the 
    assistant secretaries responsible for installations and environment 
    for the military services and the Defense Logistics Agency, shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report detailing 
    the efforts to achieve cost savings at military installations with 
    high levels of energy intensity.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A comprehensive, installation-specific assessment of 
        feasible and mission-appropriate energy initiatives supporting 
        energy production and consumption at military installations 
        with high levels of energy intensity.
            (B) An assessment of current sources of energy in areas 
        with high energy costs and potential future sources that are 
        technologically feasible, cost-effective, and mission-
        appropriate for military installations.
            (C) A comprehensive implementation strategy to include 
        required investment for feasible energy efficiency options 
        determined to be the most beneficial and cost-effective, where 
        appropriate, and consistent with Department of Defense 
        priorities.
            (D) An explanation of how military services are working 
        collaboratively in order to leverage lessons learned on 
        potential energy efficiency solutions.
            (E) An assessment of the extent to which activities 
        administered under the Federal Energy Management Program could 
        be used to assist with the implementation strategy.
            (F) An assessment of State and local partnership 
        opportunities that could achieve efficiency and cost savings, 
        and any legislative authorities required to carry out such 
        partnerships or agreements.
        (3) Coordination with state and local and other entities.--In 
    preparing the report required under paragraph (1), the Under 
    Secretary may work in conjunction and coordinate with the States 
    containing areas of high levels of energy intensity, local 
    communities, and other Federal departments and agencies.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section, the term ``high levels of energy 
intensity'' means costs for the provision of energy by kilowatt of 
electricity or British thermal unit of heat or steam for a military 
installation in the United States that is in the highest 20 percent of 
all military installations for a military department.
    SEC. 316. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON FUNDING DECISIONS RELATING TO 
      CLIMATE CHANGE.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) decisions relating to the funding of the Department of 
    Defense for fiscal year 2017 should prioritize the support and 
    enhancement of the combat capabilities of the Department, in 
    addition to seeking efficiency and efficacy;
        (2) funds should be allocated among the programs of the 
    Department in the manner that best serves the national security 
    interests of the United States; and
        (3) decisions relating to energy efficiency, energy use, and 
    climate change should adhere to the principles described in 
    paragraphs (1) and (2).

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

    SEC. 321. REVISION OF DEPLOYABILITY RATING SYSTEM AND PLANNING 
      REFORM.
    (a) Deployment Prioritization and Readiness.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 1003 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 10102 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 10102a. Deployment prioritization and readiness of Army 
      components
    ``(a) Deployment Prioritization.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
maintain a system for identifying the priority of deployment for units 
of all components of the Army.
    ``(b) Deployability Readiness Rating.--The Secretary of the Army 
shall maintain a readiness rating system for units of all components of 
the Army that provides an accurate assessment of the deployability of a 
unit and those shortfalls of a unit that require the provision of 
additional resources. The system shall ensure--
        ``(1) that the personnel readiness rating of a unit reflects--
            ``(A) both the percentage of the overall personnel 
        requirement of the unit that is manned and deployable and the 
        fill and deployability rate for critical occupational 
        specialties necessary for the unit to carry out its basic 
        mission requirements; and
            ``(B) the number of personnel in the unit who are qualified 
        in their primary military occupational specialty; and
        ``(2) that the equipment readiness assessment of a unit--
            ``(A) documents all equipment required for deployment;
            ``(B) reflects only that equipment that is directly 
        possessed by the unit;
            ``(C) specifies the effect of substitute items; and
            ``(D) assesses the effect of missing components and sets on 
        the readiness of major equipment items.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 1003 of such title is amended by inserting after the 
    item relating to section 10102 the following new item:

``10102a. Deployment prioritization and readiness of Army components.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Provisions of Law.--Sections 1121 and 1135 
of the Army National Guard Combat Readiness Reform Act of 1992 (title 
XI of Public Law 102-484; 10 U.S.C. 10105 note) are repealed.
    SEC. 322. REVISION OF GUIDANCE RELATING TO CORROSION CONTROL AND 
      PREVENTION EXECUTIVES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics, in coordination with the Director of 
Corrosion Policy and Oversight for the Department of Defense, shall 
revise guidance relating to corrosion control and prevention executives 
to--
        (1) clarify the role of each such executive with respect to 
    assisting the Office of Corrosion Policy and Oversight in holding 
    the appropriate project management office in each military 
    department accountable for submitting the annual report required 
    under section 903(b)(5) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 
    U.S.C. 2228 note); and
        (2) ensure that corrosion control and prevention executives 
    emphasize the reduction of corrosion and the effects of corrosion 
    on the military equipment and infrastructure of the Department of 
    Defense, as required in the long-term strategy of the Department of 
    Defense under section 2228(d) of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Corrosion Control and Prevention Executive Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``corrosion control and prevention executive'' means 
the employee of a military department designated as the corrosion 
control and prevention executive of the department under section 903(a) 
of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2228 note).
    SEC. 323. PILOT PROGRAM FOR INCLUSION OF CERTAIN INDUSTRIAL PLANTS 
      IN THE ARMAMENT RETOOLING AND MANUFACTURING SUPPORT INITIATIVE.
    During the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense may treat a Government-owned, 
contractor-operated industrial plant of the Department of Defense as an 
eligible facility under section 4551(2) of title 10, United States 
Code.
    SEC. 324. REPAIR, RECAPITALIZATION, AND CERTIFICATION OF DRY DOCKS 
      AT NAVAL SHIPYARDS.
    (a) Special Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--In addition to 
the authority to transfer funds provided under section 1001, the 
Secretary of Defense may transfer not more than $250,000,000 of 
authorizations made available to the Department of Defense in this Act 
for fiscal year 2017 to the Department of the Navy for the repair, 
recapitalization, and certification of dry docks at Government-owned, 
Government-operated shipyards of the Navy.
    (b) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
    (c) Terms and Conditions.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), transfers 
    under this section shall be subject to the same terms and 
    conditions as transfers under section 1001.
        (2) Effect on dollar limit.--A transfer of funds under this 
    section shall not be counted toward the dollar limitation described 
    in section 1001(a)(2).
    SEC. 325. PRIVATE SECTOR PORT LOADING ASSESSMENT.
    (a) Assessments Required.--During the period beginning on the date 
of the enactment of this Act and ending on the date of the final 
briefing under subsection (c), the Secretary of the Navy shall conduct 
quarterly assessments of naval ship maintenance and loading activities 
carried out by private sector entities at each covered port.
    (b) Elements of Assessments.--Each assessment under subsection (a) 
shall include, with respect to each covered port, the following:
        (1) Resources per day, including daily ship availabilities and 
    the workforce available to carry out maintenance and loading 
    activities, for the fiscal year preceding the quarter covered by 
    the assessment through the end of such quarter.
        (2) Projected resources per day, including daily ship 
    availabilities and the workforce available to carry out maintenance 
    and loading activities, through the end of the second fiscal year 
    beginning after the quarter covered by the assessment.
        (3) A description of the methods by which the Secretary 
    communicates projected workloads to private sector entities engaged 
    in ship maintenance activities and ship loading activities.
        (4) A description of any processes that have been implemented 
    to allow for timely feedback from private sector entities engaged 
    in ship maintenance activities and ship loading activities.
    (c) Briefings Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and on a quarterly basis thereafter until 
September 30, 2021, the Secretary shall provide to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives (and other 
congressional defense committees on request)--
        (1) a briefing on the results of the assessments conducted 
    under subsection (a); and
        (2) a chart depicting the information described in paragraphs 
    (1) and (2) of subsection (b) with respect to each covered port.
    (d) Covered Ports.--In this section, the term ``covered ports'' 
means port facilities used by the Department of Defense in each of the 
following locations:
        (1) Mayport, Florida.
        (2) Norfolk, Virginia.
        (3) Pearl Harbor, Hawaii.
        (4) Puget Sound, Washington.
        (5) San Diego, California.
    SEC. 326. STRATEGY ON REVITALIZING ARMY ORGANIC INDUSTRIAL BASE.
    (a) Strategy.--Not later than October 1, 2017, the Secretary of 
Army shall submit to the congressional defense committees a strategy to 
revitalize the organic industrial base of the Army.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy under subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to the organic industrial base of the Army, the following:
        (1) A plan to ensure the long-term viability of the organic 
    industrial base.
        (2) An assessment of legacy items of the Army that are 
    sustained by the Defense Logistics Agency.
        (3) A description of how the organic industrial base may be 
    used to address diminishing manufacturing sources and material 
    shortages.
        (4) A description of critical capabilities that are required 
    across the organic industrial base.
        (5) An assessment of infrastructure across the organic 
    industrial base.
        (6) An assessment of manufacturing sources in the organic 
    industrial base and the private sector.
        (7) An explanation of how contracting may be used to meet 
    organic industrial base requirements.
        (8) An assessment of current and future workloads across the 
    organic industrial base.
        (9) An assessment of the processes used to identify critical 
    capabilities for the organic industrial base and the methods used 
    to determine workloads.
        (10) An assessment of existing labor rates.
        (11) A description of manufacturing skills that are needed to 
    sustain readiness.
        (12) A description of how public-private partnerships may be 
    used to improve the organic industrial base.
        (13) A description of how working capital funds may be used to 
    improve the organic industrial base.
        (14) An assessment of operating expenses and the potential for 
    reducing or recovering such expenses.
        (15) Identification of the tooling, equipment, and facilities 
    upgrades necessary for a facility in the organic industrial base to 
    manufacture the legacy items of the Defense Logistics Agency, 
    including items described in section 333(a) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
    Stat. 792).
        (16) An assessment of the suitability of manufacturing the 
    legacy items of the Defense Logistics Agency in a facility in the 
    organic industrial base.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Legacy items.--The term ``legacy items'' means manufactured 
    items that are no longer produced by the private sector but 
    continue to be used for weapons systems of the Department of 
    Defense, but does not include information systems and information 
    technology (as those terms are defined in section 11101 of title 
    40, United States Code).
        (2) Organic industrial base.--The term ``organic industrial 
    base'' means United States military facilities, including arsenals, 
    depots, munition plants and centers, and storage sites, that 
    advance a vital national security interest by producing, 
    maintaining, repairing, and storing materiel, munitions, and 
    hardware.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

    SEC. 331. MODIFICATIONS TO QUARTERLY READINESS REPORT TO CONGRESS.
    (a) Deadline for Report.--Subsection (a) of section 482 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``Not later than 45 days 
after the end of each calendar-year quarter'' and inserting ``Not later 
than 30 days after the end of each calendar-year quarter''.
    (b) Elimination of Reporting Requirements Related to Prepositioned 
Stocks and National Guard Civil Support Mission Readiness.--Such 
section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``subsections (b), (d), (e), 
    (f), (g), (h), and (i)'' and inserting ``subsections (b), (d), (e), 
    (f), and (g)'';
        (2) by striking subsections (d) and (e); and
        (3) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) as 
    subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (i) respectively.
    (c) Inclusion of Information on Cannibalization Rates.--Such 
section, as amended by subsection (b), is further amended by inserting 
after subsection (g), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of such 
subsection (b), the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Cannibalization Rates.--Each report under this section shall 
include a separate unclassified report containing the information 
collected pursuant to section 117(c)(7) of this title.''.
    SEC. 332. REPORT ON AVERAGE TRAVEL COSTS OF MEMBERS OF THE RESERVE 
      COMPONENTS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the travel expenses of 
members of reserve components associated with performing active duty 
service, active service, full-time National Guard duty, active Guard 
and Reserve duty, and inactive-duty training, as such terms are defined 
in section 101(d) of title 10, United States Code. Such report shall 
include the average annual cost for all travel expenses for a member of 
a reserve component.
    SEC. 333. REPORT ON HH-60G SUSTAINMENT AND COMBAT RESCUE HELICOPTER 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Report on Sustainment Plan.--Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report that sets forth 
a plan to modernize, sustain training, and conduct depot-level 
maintenance and repair for all components of the HH-60 helicopter fleet 
until total force combat rescue units have been fully equipped with HH-
60W Combat Rescue Helicopters.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
a description of the plans of the Air Force--
        (1) to modernize legacy HH-60G combat rescue helicopters;
        (2) to maintain the training pipeline for the HH-60G aircrew 
    and the maintenance force required to maintain full readiness 
    through the end of fiscal year 2029; and
        (3) to carry out depot-level maintenance and repair (as that 
    term is defined in section 2460 of title 10, United States Code) to 
    ensure the legacy HH-60G fleet of helicopters is maintained to meet 
    readiness rates through the end of fiscal year 2029.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

    SEC. 341. AIR NAVIGATION MATTERS.
    (a) Expansion of Definition of Structures Interfering With Air 
Commerce and National Defense.--
        (1) Notice.--Section 44718(a) of title 49, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) the interests of national security, as determined by the 
    Secretary of Defense.''.
        (2) Studies.--Section 44718(b) of title 49, United States Code, 
    is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Studies.--
        ``(1) In general.--Under regulations prescribed by the 
    Secretary, if the Secretary decides that constructing or altering a 
    structure may result in an obstruction of the navigable airspace, 
    an interference with air navigation facilities and equipment or the 
    navigable airspace, or, after consultation with the Secretary of 
    Defense, an adverse impact on military operations and readiness, 
    the Secretary of Transportation shall conduct an aeronautical study 
    to decide the extent of any adverse impact on the safe and 
    efficient use of the airspace, facilities, or equipment. In 
    conducting the study, the Secretary shall--
            ``(A) consider factors relevant to the efficient and 
        effective use of the navigable airspace, including--
                ``(i) the impact on arrival, departure, and en route 
            procedures for aircraft operating under visual flight 
            rules;
                ``(ii) the impact on arrival, departure, and en route 
            procedures for aircraft operating under instrument flight 
            rules;
                ``(iii) the impact on existing public-use airports and 
            aeronautical facilities;
                ``(iv) the impact on planned public-use airports and 
            aeronautical facilities;
                ``(v) the cumulative impact resulting from the proposed 
            construction or alteration of a structure when combined 
            with the impact of other existing or proposed structures; 
            and
                ``(vi) other factors relevant to the efficient and 
            effective use of navigable airspace; and
            ``(B) include the finding made by the Secretary of Defense 
        under subsection (f).
        ``(2) Report.--On completing the study, the Secretary of 
    Transportation shall issue a report disclosing the extent of the--
            ``(A) adverse impact on the safe and efficient use of the 
        navigable airspace that the Secretary finds will result from 
        constructing or altering the structure; and
            ``(B) unacceptable risk to the national security of the 
        United States, as determined by the Secretary of Defense under 
        subsection (f).
        ``(3) Severability.--A determination by the Secretary of 
    Transportation on hazard to air navigation under this section shall 
    remain independent of a determination of unacceptable risk to the 
    national security of the United States by the Secretary of Defense 
    under subsection (f).''.
        (3) National security finding; definitions.--Section 44718 of 
    title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
    following:
    ``(f) National Security Finding.--As part of an aeronautical study 
conducted under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall--
        ``(1) make a finding on whether the construction, alteration, 
    establishment, or expansion of a structure or sanitary landfill 
    included in the study would result in an unacceptable risk to the 
    national security of the United States; and
        ``(2) transmit the finding to the Secretary of Transportation 
    for inclusion in the report required under subsection (b)(2).
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions 
apply:
        ``(1) Adverse impact on military operations and readiness.--The 
    term `adverse impact on military operations and readiness' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 211.3 of title 32, Code of 
    Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 6, 2014.
        ``(2) Unacceptable risk to the national security of the united 
    states.--The term `unacceptable risk to the national security of 
    the United States' has the meaning given the term in section 211.3 
    of title 32, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 
    6, 2014.''.
        (4) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) Section heading.--Section 44718 of title 49, United 
        States Code, is amended in the section heading by inserting 
        ``or national security'' after ``air commerce''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 447 of title 49, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 44718 and 
        inserting the following:

``44718. Structures interfering with air commerce or national 
          security.''.

    (b) Performance-based Navigation.--Section 213(c) of the FAA 
Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 
40101 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) Notifications and consultations.--Not later than 90 days 
    before applying a categorical exclusion under this subsection to a 
    new procedure at an OEP airport, the Administrator shall--
            ``(A) notify and consult with the operator of the airport 
        at which the procedure would be implemented; and
            ``(B) consider consultations or other engagement with the 
        community in the which the airport is located to inform the 
        public of the procedure.
        ``(4) Review of certain categorical exclusions.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall review any 
        decision of the Administrator made on or after February 14, 
        2012, and before the date of the enactment of this paragraph to 
        grant a categorical exclusion under this subsection with 
        respect to a procedure to be implemented at an OEP airport that 
        was a material change from procedures previously in effect at 
        the airport to determine if the implementation of the procedure 
        had a significant effect on the human environment in the 
        community in which the airport is located.
            ``(B) Content of review.--If, in conducting a review under 
        subparagraph (A) with respect to a procedure implemented at an 
        OEP airport, the Administrator, in consultation with the 
        operator of the airport, determines that implementing the 
        procedure had a significant effect on the human environment in 
        the community in which the airport is located, the 
        Administrator shall--
                ``(i) consult with the operator of the airport to 
            identify measures to mitigate the effect of the procedure 
            on the human environment; and
                ``(ii) in conducting such consultations, consider the 
            use of alternative flight paths that do not substantially 
            degrade the efficiencies achieved by the implementation of 
            the procedure being reviewed.
            ``(C) Human environment defined.--In this paragraph, the 
        term `human environment' has the meaning given such term in 
        section 1508.14 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (as in 
        effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
        paragraph).''.
    SEC. 342. CONTRACT WORKING DOGS.
    (a) Required Contract Clause.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 141 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2410r. Contract working dogs: requirement to transfer animals to 
     341st Training Squadron after service life
    ``(a) In General.--Each contract entered into by the Secretary of 
Defense for the provision of a contract working dog shall require that 
the dog be transferred to the 341st Training Squadron after the service 
life of the dog has terminated as described in subsection (b) for 
reclassification as a military animal and placement for adoption in 
accordance with section 2583 of this title.
    ``(b) Service Life.--The service life of a contract working dog has 
terminated and the dog is available for transfer to the 341st Training 
Squadron pursuant to a contract under subsection (a) only if the 
contracting officer concerned has determined that--
        ``(1) the final contractual obligation of the dog preceding 
    such transfer is with the Department of Defense; and
        ``(2) the dog cannot be used by another department or agency of 
    the Federal Government due to age, injury, or performance.
    ``(c) Contract Working Dog.--In this section, the term `contract 
working dog' means a dog--
        ``(1) that performs a service for the Department of Defense 
    pursuant to a contract; and
        ``(2) that is trained and kenneled by an entity that provides 
    such a dog pursuant to such a contract.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``2410r. Contract working dogs: requirement to transfer animals to 341st 
          Training Squadron after service life.''.

    (b) Inclusion in Definition of Military Animal.--Paragraph (1) of 
section 2583(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
        ``(1) A military working dog, which may include a contract 
    working dog (as such term is defined in section 2410r) that has 
    been transferred to the 341st Training Squadron.''.
    SEC. 343. PLAN, FUNDING DOCUMENTS, AND MANAGEMENT REVIEW RELATING 
      TO EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE DISPOSAL.
    (a) Plan Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
    to establish an explosive ordnance disposal program in the 
    Department of Defense to ensure close and continuous coordination 
    among the military departments on matters relating to explosive 
    ordnance disposal.
        (2) Roles, responsibilities, and authorities.--The plan under 
    paragraph (1) shall include provisions under which--
            (A) the Secretary of Defense shall--
                (i) assign responsibility for the coordination and 
            integration of explosive ordnance disposal to a joint 
            office or entity in the Office of the Secretary of Defense; 
            and
                (ii) designate the Secretary of the Navy (or a designee 
            of the Secretary of the Navy) as the executive agent for 
            the Department of Defense to coordinate and integrate 
            research, development, test, and evaluation activities and 
            procurement activities of the military departments relating 
            to explosive ordnance disposal; and
            (B) the Secretary of each military department shall assess 
        the needs of the military department concerned with respect to 
        explosive ordnance disposal and may carry out research, 
        development, test, and evaluation activities and procurement 
        activities to address such needs.
    (b) Annual Explosive Ordnance Disposal Funding Documents.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    Congress, as a part of the defense budget materials for each fiscal 
    year after fiscal year 2017, a consolidated funding display, in 
    classified and unclassified form, that identifies the funding 
    source for all explosive ordnance disposal activities within the 
    Department of Defense.
        (2) Elements.--The funding display under paragraph (1) for a 
    fiscal year shall include a single program element from each 
    military department for each of the following:
            (A) Research, development, test, and evaluation.
            (B) Procurement.
            (C) Operation and maintenance.
            (D) Any other program element used to fund explosive 
        ordnance disposal activities (but not including any program 
        element relating to military construction).
    (c) Management Review and Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall review and 
    assess the effectiveness of current management structures in 
    supporting the explosive ordnance disposal needs of the combatant 
    commands and the military departments.
        (2) Elements.--The review and assessment under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) A review of the organizational structures and 
        responsibilities within the Office of the Secretary of Defense 
        that provide policy and oversight of the policies, programs, 
        acquisition activities, and personnel of the military 
        departments relating to explosive ordnance disposal.
            (B) A review of the organizational structures and 
        responsibilities within the military departments that--
                (i) man, equip, and train explosive ordnance disposal 
            forces; and
                (ii) support such forces with manpower, technology, 
            equipment, and readiness.
            (C) A review of the organizational structures and 
        responsibilities of the Secretary of the Navy as the executive 
        agent for explosive ordnance disposal technology and training.
            (D) Budget displays for each military department that 
        support research, development, test, and evaluation; 
        procurement; and operation and maintenance, relating to 
        explosive ordnance disposal.
            (E) An assessment of the adequacy of the organizational 
        structures and responsibilities and the alignment of funding 
        within the military departments in supporting the needs of the 
        combatant commands and the military departments with respect to 
        explosive ordnance disposal.
    (d) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the Secretary shall 
provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a briefing that includes--
        (1) details of the plan required under subsection (a);
        (2) the results of the review and assessment under subsection 
    (c);
        (3) a description of any measures undertaken to improve joint 
    coordination, oversight, and management of programs relating to 
    explosive ordnance disposal;
        (4) recommendations to the Secretary to improve the 
    capabilities and readiness of explosive ordnance disposal forces; 
    and
        (5) an explanation of the advantages and disadvantages of 
    assigning responsibility for the coordination and integration of 
    explosive ordnance disposal to a single joint office or entity in 
    the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Explosive ordnance.--The term ``explosive ordnance'' means 
    any munition containing explosives, nuclear fission or fusion 
    materials, or biological or chemical agents, including--
            (A) bombs and warheads;
            (B) guided and ballistic missiles;
            (C) artillery, mortar, rocket, and small arms munitions;
            (D) mines, torpedoes, and depth charges;
            (E) demolition charges;
            (F) pyrotechnics;
            (G) clusters and dispensers;
            (H) cartridge and propellant actuated devices;
            (I) electro-explosive devices; and
            (J) clandestine and improvised explosive devices.
        (2) Disposal.--The term ``disposal'' means, with respect to 
    explosive ordnance, the detection, identification, field 
    evaluation, defeat, disablement, or rendering safe, recovery and 
    exploitation, and final disposition of the ordnance.
    SEC. 344. PROCESS FOR COMMUNICATING AVAILABILITY OF SURPLUS 
      AMMUNITION.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement a formal 
process to provide Federal Government agencies outside the Department 
of Defense with information on the availability of surplus, serviceable 
ammunition from the Department of Defense for the purpose of reducing 
costs relating to the storage and disposal of such ammunition.
    (b) Implementation Deadline.--The Secretary shall implement the 
process described in subsection (a) beginning not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 345. MITIGATION OF RISKS POSED BY WINDOW COVERINGS WITH 
      ACCESSIBLE CORDS IN CERTAIN MILITARY HOUSING UNITS.
    (a) Removal of Certain Window Coverings.--Not later than three 
years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall remove and replace disqualified window coverings from--
        (1) military housing units owned by the Department of Defense 
    in which children under the age of 9 may reside; and
        (2) military housing units leased by the Department of Defense 
    in which children under the age of 9 may reside if the lease for 
    such units requires the Department to provide window coverings.
    (b) Prohibition on Disqualified Window Coverings in Military 
Housing Units Acquired or Constructed by Contract.--All contracts 
entered into by the Secretary of Defense after September 30, 2017, for 
the acquisition or construction of military family housing, including 
military family housing acquired or constructed pursuant to subchapter 
IV of chapter 169 of title 10, United States Code, shall prohibit the 
use of disqualified window coverings in such housing.
    (c) Disqualified Window Covering Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``disqualified window covering'' means--
        (1) a window covering with an accessible cord that exceeds 8 
    inches in length; or
        (2) a window covering with an accessible continuous loop cord 
    that does not have a cord tension device that prevents operation 
    when the cord is not anchored to the wall.
    SEC. 346. ACCESS TO MILITARY INSTALLATIONS BY TRANSPORTATION 
      COMPANIES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
policies under which covered drivers may be authorized to access 
military installations.
    (b) Elements.--The policies established under subsection (a)--
        (1) shall include the terms and conditions under which a 
    covered driver may be authorized to access a military installation;
        (2) may require a transportation company and a covered driver 
    to enter into a written agreement with the Department of Defense as 
    a precondition for obtaining authorization to access a military 
    installation;
        (3) shall be consistent across military installations, to the 
    extent practicable;
        (4) shall be designed to promote the expeditious entry of 
    covered drivers onto military installations for purposes of 
    providing commercial transportation services;
        (5) shall place appropriate restrictions on entry into 
    sensitive areas of military installations;
        (6) shall be designed, to the extent practicable, to give 
    covered drivers access to barracks areas, housing areas, temporary 
    lodging facilities, hospitals, and community support facilities;
        (7) shall require transportation companies--
            (A) to track, in real-time, the location of the entry and 
        exit of covered drivers onto and off of military installations; 
        and
            (B) to provide, on demand, the information described in 
        subparagraph (A) to appropriate personnel and agencies of the 
        Department; and
        (8) shall take into account force protection requirements and 
    ensure the protection and safety of members of the Armed Forces, 
    civilian employees of the Department of Defense, and the families 
    of such members and employees.
    (c) Confidentiality of Information.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that any information provided to the Department by a transportation 
company under subsection (b)(7)--
        (1) is treated as confidential and proprietary information of 
    the company that is exempt from public disclosure pursuant to 
    section 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly known as the 
    ``Freedom of Information Act''); and
        (2) except as provided in subsection (b)(7), is not disclosed 
    to any person or entity without the express written consent of the 
    company unless disclosure of such information is required by a 
    court order.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Transportation company.--The term ``transportation 
    company'' means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or 
    other entity outside of the Department of Defense that provides a 
    commercial transportation service to a rider, including a company 
    that uses a digital network to connect riders to covered drivers 
    for the purpose of providing such transportation service.
        (2) Covered driver.--The term ``covered driver''--
            (A) means an individual--
                (i) who is an employee of a transportation company or 
            who is affiliated with a transportation company; and
                (ii) who provides a commercial transportation service 
            to a rider; and
            (B) includes a vehicle operated by such individual for the 
        purpose of providing such service.
    SEC. 347. ACCESS TO WIRELESS HIGH-SPEED INTERNET AND NETWORK 
      CONNECTIONS FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) In General.--In providing members of the Armed Forces with 
access to high-speed wireless Internet and network connections at 
military installations outside the United States, the Secretary of 
Defense may provide such access without charge to the members and their 
dependents.
    (b) Contract Authority.--The Secretary may enter into contracts for 
the purpose of carrying out subsection (a).
    SEC. 348. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR OFFICE OF THE 
      UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2017 for Operation and Maintenance, 
Defense-wide, for the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Intelligence, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the Secretary of Defense issues guidance on the process by which 
members of the Armed Forces may carry an appropriate firearm on a 
military installation, as required by section 526 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 813; 10 U.S.C. 2672 note).
    SEC. 349. LIMITATION ON DEVELOPMENT AND FIELDING OF NEW CAMOUFLAGE 
      AND UTILITY UNIFORMS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be obligated 
or expended to develop or field new camouflage uniforms, new utility 
uniforms, or new families of uniforms until the date that is one year 
after the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
congressional defense committees notice of the intent of the Secretary 
to develop or field such uniforms.
    SEC. 350. PLAN FOR IMPROVED DEDICATED ADVERSARY AIR TRAINING 
      ENTERPRISE OF THE AIR FORCE.
    (a) In General.--The Chief of Staff of the Air Force shall develop 
a plan for an improved dedicated adversary air training enterprise for 
the Air Force--
        (1) to maximize warfighting effectiveness and synergies of the 
    current and planned fourth and fifth generation combat air forces 
    through optimized training and readiness;
        (2) to harness intelligence analysis, emerging live-virtual-
    constructive training technologies, range infrastructure 
    improvements, and results of experimentation and prototyping 
    efforts in operational concept development;
        (3) to challenge the combat air forces of the Air Force with 
    threat representative adversary-to-friendly aircraft ratios, known 
    and emerging adversary tactics, and high fidelity replication of 
    threat airborne and ground capabilities; and
        (4) to achieve training and readiness goals and objectives of 
    the Air Force with demonstrated institutional commitment to the 
    adversary air training enterprise through the application of Air 
    Force policy and resources, partnering with the other Armed Forces, 
    allies, and friends, and employing the use of industry contracted 
    services.
    (b) Elements.--The plan under subsection (a) shall include, with 
respect to an improved dedicated adversary air training enterprise, the 
following:
        (1) Goals and objectives.
        (2) Concepts of operations.
        (3) Timelines for the phased implementation of the enterprise.
        (4) Analysis of readiness improvements that may result from the 
    enterprise.
        (5) Prioritized resource requirements.
        (6) Such other matters as the Chief of Staff considers 
    appropriate.
    (c) Written Plan and Briefing.--Not later than March 3, 2017, the 
Chief of Staff shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives--
        (1) a written version of the plan developed under subsection 
    (a); and
        (2) a briefing on such plan.
    SEC. 351. INDEPENDENT REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF THE READY AIRCREW 
      PROGRAM OF THE AIR FORCE.
    (a) Independent Review and Assessment.--The Secretary of the Air 
Force shall enter into a contract with an independent entity with 
appropriate expertise--
        (1) to conduct a review and assessment of--
            (A) the assumptions underlying the annual continuation 
        training requirements of the Air Force; and
            (B) the overall effectiveness of the Ready Aircrew Program 
        of the Air Force in managing aircrew training requirements; and
        (2) to make recommendations for the improved management of such 
    training requirements.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on the review and 
    assessment conducted under subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include an 
    examination of the following:
            (A) For the aircrews of each type of combat aircraft and by 
        mission type--
                (i) the number of sorties required to reach minimum and 
            optimal levels of proficiency, respectively;
                (ii) the optimal mix of live and virtual training 
            sorties; and
                (iii) the optimal mix of experienced aircrews versus 
            inexperienced aircrews.
            (B) The availability of assets and infrastructure to 
        support the achievement of aircrew proficiency levels and an 
        explanation of any requirements relating to such assets and 
        infrastructure.
            (C) The accumulated flying hours or other measurements used 
        to determine if an aircrew qualifies for designation as an 
        experienced aircrew, and whether different measurements should 
        be used.
            (D) Any actions taken or planned to be taken to implement 
        recommendations resulting from the independent review and 
        assessment under subsection (a), including an estimate of the 
        resources required to implement such recommendations.
            (E) Any other matters the Secretary determines are 
        appropriate to ensure a comprehensive review and assessment.
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--
        (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a review of 
    the report described in subsection (b). Such review shall include 
    an assessment of--
            (A) the extent to which the report addressed the elements 
        described in paragraph (2) of such subsection;
            (B) the adequacy and completeness of the assumptions 
        reviewed to establish the annual training requirements of the 
        Air Force;
            (C) any actions the Air Force plans to carry out to 
        incorporate the results of the report into annual training 
        documents; and
            (D) any other matters the Comptroller General determines 
        are relevant.
        (2) Briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary of the Air Force submits the report under subsection 
    (b) and prior to submitting the review required under paragraph 
    (1), the Comptroller General shall provide a briefing to the 
    congressional defense committees on the preliminary results of the 
    review conducted under such paragraph.
    SEC. 352. STUDY ON SPACE-AVAILABLE TRAVEL SYSTEM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
      OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Study Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into a contract with a federally funded research and development center 
to conduct an independent study on the space-available travel system of 
the Department of Defense.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after entering into a 
contract with a federally funded research and development center under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report summarizing the results of the study conducted 
under such subsection.
    (c) Elements.--The report under subsection (b) shall include, with 
respect to the space-available travel system, the following:
        (1) A determination of--
            (A) the capacity of the system as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act;
            (B) the projected capacity of the system for the 10-year 
        period following such date of enactment; and
            (C) the projected number of reserve retirees, active duty 
        retirees, and dependents of such retirees that will exist by 
        the end of such 10-year period.
        (2) Estimates of system capacity based the projections 
    described in paragraph (1).
        (3) A discussion of the efficiency of the system and data 
    regarding the use of available space with respect to each category 
    of passengers eligible for space-available travel under existing 
    regulations.
        (4) A description of the effect on system capacity if 
    eligibility for space-available travel is extended to--
            (A) drilling reserve component personnel and dependents of 
        such personnel on international flights;
            (B) dependents of reserve component retirees who are less 
        than 60 years of age;
            (C) retirees who are less than 60 years of age on 
        international flights;
            (D) drilling reserve component personnel traveling to 
        drilling locations; and
            (E) members or former members of the Armed Forces who have 
        a disability rated as total, if space-available travel is 
        provided to such members on the same basis as such travel is 
        provided to members of the Armed Forces entitled to retired or 
        retainer pay.
        (5) A discussion of logistical and management problems, 
    including congestion at terminals, waiting times, lodging 
    availability, and personal hardships experienced by travelers.
        (6) An evaluation of the cost of the system and whether space-
    available travel is and can remain cost-neutral.
        (7) An evaluation of the feasibility of expanding the 
    categories of passengers eligible for space-available travel to 
    include--
            (A) in the case of overseas travel, retired members of an 
        active or reserve component, including retired members of 
        reserve components, who, but for being under the eligibility 
        age applicable to the member under section 12731 of title 10, 
        United States Code, would be eligible for retired pay under 
        chapter 1223 of such title;
            (B) unremarried widows and widowers of active or reserve 
        component members of the Armed Forces; and
            (C) members or former members of the Armed Forces who have 
        a disability rated as total, if space-available travel is 
        provided to such members on the same basis as such travel is 
        provided to members of the Armed Forces entitled to retired or 
        retainer pay.
        (8) Such other factors relating to the efficiency and cost of 
    the system as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.
    (d) Additional Responsibilities.--In addition to carrying out 
subsections (a) through (c), the Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) analyze the methods used to prioritize among the categories 
    of individuals eligible for space-available travel and make 
    recommendations for--
            (A) re-ordering the priority of such categories; and
            (B) adding additional categories of eligible individuals; 
        and
        (2) collect data on travelers who request but do not obtain 
    available travel spaces under the space-available travel system.
    (e) Disability Rated as Total Defined.--In this section, the term 
``disability rated as total'' has the meaning given the term in section 
1414(e)(3) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 353. EVALUATION OF MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY PERFORMANCE AND SAFETY 
      TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate the need 
for proven safety technology in vehicles transporting shipments under 
the Transportation Protective Services program of the United States 
Transportation Command, including--
        (1) electronic logging devices;
        (2) roll stability control;
        (3) forward collision avoidance systems;
        (4) lane departure warning systems; and
        (5) speed limiters.
    (b) Considerations.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall--
        (1) consider the need to avoid catastrophic accidents and 
    exposure of security-sensitive materials; and
        (2) take into the account the findings of the Government 
    Accountability Office report numbered GAO-16-82 and titled 
    ``Defense Transportation; DoD Needs to Improve the Evaluation of 
    Safety and Performance Information for Carriers Transporting 
    Security-Sensitive Materials''.

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2017 limitation on number of non-dual status 
          technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.
Sec. 416. Technical corrections to annual authorization for personnel 
          strengths.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

    SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.
    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2017, as follows:
        (1) The Army, 476,000.
        (2) The Navy, 323,900.
        (3) The Marine Corps, 185,000.
        (4) The Air Force, 321,000.
    SEC. 402. REVISIONS IN PERMANENT ACTIVE DUTY END STRENGTH MINIMUM 
      LEVELS.
    Section 691(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking paragraphs (1) through (4) and inserting the following new 
paragraphs:
        ``(1) For the Army, 476,000.
        ``(2) For the Navy, 323,900.
        ``(3) For the Marine Corps, 185,000.
        ``(4) For the Air Force, 321,000.''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

    SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.
    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2017, as follows:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 343,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 199,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 58,000.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,500.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 105,700.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 69,000.
        (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
        (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to serve 
    as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on 
    active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal 
    year; and
        (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
    organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
    component who are on active duty (other than for training or for 
    unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at 
    the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve for any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.
    SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF 
      THE RESERVES.
    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2017, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,155.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 9,955.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,261.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 14,764.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 2,955.
    SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).
    (a) In General.--The authorized number of military technicians 
(dual status) as of September 30, 2017, for the reserve components of 
the Army and the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, 
United States Code) shall be the following:
        (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 25,507.
        (2) For the Army Reserve, 7,570.
        (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 22,103.
        (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 10,061.
    (b) Variance.--Notwithstanding section 115 of title 10, United 
States Code, the end strength prescribed by subsection (a) for a 
reserve component specified in that subsection may be increased--
        (1) by 3 percent, upon determination by the Secretary of 
    Defense that such action is in the national interest; and
        (2) by 2 percent, upon determination by the Secretary of the 
    military department concerned that such action would enhance 
    manning and readiness in essential units or in critical specialties 
    or ratings.
    SEC. 414. FISCAL YEAR 2017 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF NON-DUAL STATUS 
      TECHNICIANS.
    (a) Limitations.--
        (1) National guard.--Within the limitation provided in section 
    10217(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the number of non-dual 
    status technicians employed by the National Guard as of September 
    30, 2017, may not exceed the following:
            (A) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        1,600.
            (B) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 350.
        (2) Army reserve.--The number of non-dual status technicians 
    employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 2017, may not 
    exceed 420.
        (3) Air force reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
    technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 30, 
    2017, may not exceed 90.
    (b) Non-dual Status Technicians Defined.--In this section, the term 
``non-dual status technician'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 10217(a) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 415. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
      ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.
    During fiscal year 2017, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.
    SEC. 416. TECHNICAL CORRECTIONS TO ANNUAL AUTHORIZATION FOR 
      PERSONNEL STRENGTHS.
    Section 115 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``502(f)(2)'' and 
        inserting ``502(f)(1)(B)''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``502(f)(2)'' and 
        inserting ``502(f)(1)(B)''; and
        (2) in subsection (i)(7), by striking ``502(f)(1)'' and 
    inserting ``502(f)(1)(A)''.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2017.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Reduction in number of general and flag officers on active 
          duty and authorized strength after December 31, 2022, of such 
          general and flag officers.
Sec. 502. Repeal of statutory specification of general or flag officer 
          grade for various positions in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 503. Number of Marine Corps general officers.
Sec. 504. Promotion eligibility period for officers whose confirmation 
          of appointment is delayed due to nonavailability to the Senate 
          of probative information under control of non-Department of 
          Defense agencies.
Sec. 505. Continuation of certain officers on active duty without regard 
          to requirement for retirement for years of service.
Sec. 506. Equal consideration of officers for early retirement or 
          discharge.
Sec. 507. Modification of authority to drop from rolls a commissioned 
          officer.
Sec. 508. Extension of force management authorities allowing enhanced 
          flexibility for officer personnel management.
Sec. 509. Pilot programs on direct commissions to cyber positions.
Sec. 510. Length of joint duty assignments.
Sec. 510A. Revision of definitions used for joint officer management.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Authority for temporary waiver of limitation on term of 
          service of Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau.
Sec. 512. Rights and protections available to military technicians.
Sec. 513. Inapplicability of certain laws to National Guard technicians 
          performing active Guard and Reserve duty.
Sec. 514. Extension of removal of restrictions on the transfer of 
          officers between the active and inactive National Guard.
Sec. 515. Extension of temporary authority to use Air Force reserve 
          component personnel to provide training and instruction 
          regarding pilot training.
Sec. 516. Expansion of eligibility for deputy commander of combatant 
          command having United States among geographic area of 
          responsibility to include officers of the Reserves.

                 Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 521. Matters relating to provision of leave for members of the 
          Armed Forces, including prohibition on leave not expressly 
          authorized by law.
Sec. 522. Transfer of provision relating to expenses incurred in 
          connection with leave canceled due to contingency operations.
Sec. 523. Expansion of authority to execute certain military 
          instruments.
Sec. 524. Medical examination before administrative separation for 
          members with post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain 
          injury in connection with sexual assault.
Sec. 525. Reduction of tenure on the temporary disability retired list.
Sec. 526. Technical correction to voluntary separation pay and benefits.
Sec. 527. Consolidation of Army marketing and pilot program on 
          consolidated Army recruiting.

Subtitle D--Member Whistleblower Protections and Correction of Military 
                                 Records

Sec. 531. Improvements to whistleblower protection procedures.
Sec. 532. Modification of whistleblower protection authorities to 
          restrict contrary findings of prohibited personnel action by 
          the Secretary concerned.
Sec. 533. Availability of certain Correction of Military Records and 
          Discharge Review Board information through the Internet.
Sec. 534. Improvements to authorities and procedures for the correction 
          of military records.
Sec. 535. Treatment by discharge review boards of claims asserting post-
          traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury in 
          connection with combat or sexual trauma as a basis for review 
          of discharge.
Sec. 536. Comptroller General of the United States review of integrity 
          of Department of Defense whistleblower program.

        Subtitle E--Military Justice and Legal Assistance Matters

Sec. 541. United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 542. Effective prosecution and defense in courts-martial and pilot 
          programs on professional military justice development for 
          judge advocates.
Sec. 543. Inclusion in annual reports on sexual assault prevention and 
          response efforts of the Armed Forces of information on 
          complaints of retaliation in connection with reports of sexual 
          assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 544. Extension of the requirement for annual report regarding 
          sexual assaults and coordination with release of Family 
          Advocacy Program report.
Sec. 545. Metrics for evaluating the efforts of the Armed Forces to 
          prevent and respond to retaliation in connection with reports 
          of sexual assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 546. Training for Department of Defense personnel who investigate 
          claims of retaliation.
Sec. 547. Notification to complainants of resolution of investigations 
          into retaliation.
Sec. 548. Modification of definition of sexual harassment for purposes 
          of investigations by commanding officers of complaints of 
          harassment.
Sec. 549. Improved Department of Defense prevention of and response to 
          hazing in the Armed Forces.

   Subtitle F--National Commission on Military, National, and Public 
                                 Service

Sec. 551. Purpose, scope, and definitions.
Sec. 552. Preliminary report on purpose and utility of registration 
          system under Military Selective Service Act.
Sec. 553. National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service.
Sec. 554. Commission hearings and meetings.
Sec. 555. Principles and procedure for Commission recommendations.
Sec. 556. Executive Director and staff.
Sec. 557. Termination of Commission.

   Subtitle G--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

Sec. 561. Modification of program to assist members of the Armed Forces 
          in obtaining professional credentials.
Sec. 562. Inclusion of alcohol, prescription drug, opioid, and other 
          substance abuse counseling as part of required preseparation 
          counseling.
Sec. 563. Inclusion of information in Transition Assistance Program 
          regarding effect of receipt of both veteran disability 
          compensation and voluntary separation pay.
Sec. 564. Training under Transition Assistance Program on career and 
          employment opportunities associated with transportation 
          security cards.
Sec. 565. Extension of suicide prevention and resilience program.
Sec. 566. Congressional notification in advance of appointments to 
          service academies.
Sec. 567. Report and guidance on Job Training, Employment Skills 
          Training, Apprenticeships, and Internships and SkillBridge 
          initiatives for members of the Armed Forces who are being 
          separated.
Sec. 568. Military-to-mariner transition.

Subtitle H--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                 Matters

Sec. 571. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies 
          that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and 
          Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 572. One-year extension of authorities relating to the transition 
          and support of military dependent students to local 
          educational agencies.
Sec. 573. Annual notice to members of the Armed Forces regarding child 
          custody protections guaranteed by the Servicemembers Civil 
          Relief Act.
Sec. 574. Requirement for annual Family Advocacy Program report 
          regarding child abuse and domestic violence.
Sec. 575. Reporting on allegations of child abuse in military families 
          and homes.
Sec. 576. Repeal of Advisory Council on Dependents' Education.
Sec. 577. Support for programs providing camp experience for children of 
          military families.
Sec. 578. Comptroller General of the United States assessment and report 
          on Exceptional Family Member Programs.
Sec. 579. Impact aid amendments.

                   Subtitle I--Decorations and Awards

 Sec. 581. Posthumous advancement of Colonel George E. ``Bud'' Day, 
          United States Air Force, on the retired list.
Sec. 582. Authorization for award of medals for acts of valor during 
          certain contingency operations.
Sec. 583. Authorization for award of the Medal of Honor to Gary M. Rose 
          and James C. McCloughan for acts of valor during the Vietnam 
          War.
Sec. 584. Authorization for award of Distinguished-Service Cross to 
          First Lieutenant Melvin M. Spruiell for acts of valor during 
          World War II.
Sec. 585. Authorization for award of the Distinguished Service Cross to 
          Chaplain (First Lieutenant) Joseph Verbis LaFleur for acts of 
          valor during World War II.
Sec. 586. Review regarding award of Medal of Honor to certain Asian 
          American and Native American Pacific Islander war veterans.

           Subtitle J--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 591. Repeal of requirement for a chaplain at the United States Air 
          Force Academy appointed by the President.
Sec. 592. Extension of limitation on reduction in number of military and 
          civilian personnel assigned to duty with service review 
          agencies.
Sec. 593. Annual reports on progress of the Army and the Marine Corps in 
          integrating women into military occupational specialities and 
          units recently opened to women.
Sec. 594. Report on feasability of electronic tracking of operational 
          active-duty service performed by members of the Ready Reserve 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 595. Report on discharge by warrant officers of pilot and other 
          flight officer positions in the Navy, Marine Corps, and Air 
          Force currently discharged by commissioned officers.
Sec. 596. Body mass index test.
Sec. 597. Report on career progression tracks of the Armed Forces for 
          women in combat arms units.

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

    SEC. 501. REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS ON 
      ACTIVE DUTY AND AUTHORIZED STRENGTH AFTER DECEMBER 31, 2022, OF 
      SUCH GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS.
    (a) Reduction in Number of General and Flag Officers by December 
31, 2022.--
        (1) Required reduction.--Except as otherwise provided by an Act 
    enacted after the date of the enactment of this Act that expressly 
    modifies the requirements of this paragraph, by not later than 
    December 31, 2022, the Secretary of Defense shall reduce the number 
    of general and flag officers on active duty by 110 from the 
    aggregate authorized number of general and flag officers authorized 
    by sections 525 and 526 of title 10, United States Code, as of 
    December 31, 2015.
        (2) Distribution of authorized positions.--Effective as of 
    December 31, 2022, and reflecting the reduction required by 
    paragraph (1), authorized general and flag officer positions shall 
    be distributed among the Army, Navy, Air Force, Marine Corps, and 
    joint pool as follows:
            (A) The Army is authorized 220 positions in the general 
        officer grades.
            (B) The Navy is authorized 151 positions in the flag 
        officer grades.
            (C) The Air Force is authorized 187 positions in the 
        general officer grades.
            (D) The Marine Corps is authorized 62 positions in the 
        general officer grades.
            (E) The joint pool is authorized 232 positions in the 
        general or flag officer grades, to be distributed as follows:
                (i) 82 positions in the general officer grades from the 
            Army.
                (ii) 60 positions in the flag officer grades from the 
            Navy.
                (iii) 69 positions in the general officer grades from 
            the Air Force.
                (iv) 21 positions in the general officer grades from 
            the Marine Corps.
        (3) Temporary additional joint pool allocation.--In addition to 
    the positions authorized by paragraph (2), the 30 general and flag 
    officer positions designated for overseas contingency operations 
    are authorized as an additional maximum temporary allocation to the 
    joint pool.
    (b) Plan to Achieve Required Reduction and Distribution.--
        (1) Plan required.--Utilizing the study conducted under 
    subsection (c), the Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to 
    achieve, by the date specified in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) the reduction required by such subsection in the number 
        of general and flag officers; and
            (B) the distribution of authorized positions required by 
        subsection (a)(2).
        (2) Submission of plan.--When the budget for the Department of 
    Defense for fiscal year 2019 is submitted to Congress pursuant to 
    section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting forth the 
    plan developed under this subsection.
        (3) Progress reports.--The Secretary of Defense shall include 
    with the budget for the Department of Defense for each of fiscal 
    years 2020, 2021, and 2022 a report describing and assessing the 
    progress of the Secretary in implementing the plan developed under 
    this subsection.
    (c) Study for Purposes of Plan.--
        (1) Study required.--For purposes of complying with subsection 
    (a) and preparing the plan required by subsection (b), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall conduct a comprehensive and deliberate 
    global manpower study of requirements for general and flag officers 
    with the goal of identifying--
            (A) the requirement justification for each general or flag 
        officer position in terms of overall force structure, scope of 
        responsibility, command and control requirements, and force 
        readiness and execution;
            (B) an additional 10 percent reduction in the aggregate 
        number of authorized general officer and flag officer positions 
        after the reductions required by subsection (a); and
            (C) an appropriate redistribution of all general officer 
        and flag officer positions within the reductions so identified.
        (2) Submission of study results.--Not later than April 1, 2017, 
    the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
    setting forth the results of the study conducted under this 
    subsection, including the justification for general and flag 
    officer position to be retained and the reductions identified by 
    general and flag officer position.
        (3) Interim report.--If practicable before the date specified 
    in paragraph (2), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives an interim report describing the progress made 
    toward the completion of the study under this subsection, 
    including--
            (A) the specific general and flag officer positions that 
        have been evaluated;
            (B) the results of that evaluation; and
            (C) recommendations for achieving the additional 10 percent 
        reduction in the aggregate number of authorized general officer 
        and flag officer positions to be identified under paragraph 
        (1)(C) and recommendations for redistribution of general and 
        flag officer positions that have been developed to that point.
    (d) Exclusions.--
        (1) Related to joint duty assignments.--For purposes of 
    complying with subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may 
    exclude--
            (A) a general or flag officer released from a joint duty 
        assignment, but only during the 60-day period beginning on the 
        date the officer departs the joint duty assignment, except that 
        the Secretary may authorize the Secretary of a military 
        department to extend the 60-day period by an additional 120 
        days, but not more than three officers on active duty from each 
        Armed Force may be covered by the additional extension at the 
        same time; and
            (B) the number of officers required to serve in joint duty 
        assignments for each Armed Force as authorized by the Secretary 
        under section 526a(b) of title 10, United States Code, as added 
        by subsection (h) of this section.
        (2) Related to relief from chief of staff duty.--For purposes 
    of complying with subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may 
    exclude an officer who continues to hold the grade of general or 
    admiral under section 601(b)(5) of title 10, United States Code, 
    after relief from the position of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff, Chief of Staff of the Army, Chief of Naval Operations, Chief 
    of Staff of the Air Force, or Commandant of the Marine Corps.
        (3) Related to retirement, separation, release, or relief.--For 
    purposes of complying with subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense 
    may exclude the following officers:
            (A) An officer of an Armed Force in the grade of brigadier 
        general or above or, in the case of the Navy, in the grade of 
        rear admiral (lower half) or above, who is on leave pending the 
        retirement, separation, or release of that officer from active 
        duty, but only during the 60-day period beginning on the date 
        of the commencement of such leave of such officer.
            (B) An officer of an Armed Force who has been relieved from 
        a position designated under section 601(a) of title 10, United 
        States Code, or by law to carry one of the grades specified in 
        such section, but only during the 60-day period beginning on 
        the date on which the assignment of the officer to the first 
        position is terminated or until the officer is assigned to a 
        second such position, whichever occurs first.
    (e) Secretarial Authority to Grant Exceptions to Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary of 
    Defense may alter the reduction otherwise required by subsection 
    (a)(1) in the number of general and flag officer or the 
    distribution of authorized positions otherwise required by 
    subsection (a)(2) in the interest of the national security of the 
    United States.
        (2) Notice to congress of exceptions.--Not later than 30 days 
    after authorizing a number of general or flag officers in excess of 
    the number required as a result of the reduction required by 
    subsection (a)(1) or altering the distribution of authorized 
    positions under subsection (a)(2), the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
    House of Representatives written notice of such exception, 
    including a statement of the reason for such exception and the 
    anticipated duration of the exception.
    (f) Orderly Transition for Officers Recently Assigned to Positions 
to Be Eliminated.--
        (1) Covered officers.--In order to provide an orderly 
    transition for personnel in general or flag officer positions to be 
    eliminated pursuant to the plan prepared under subsection (b), any 
    general or flag officer who has not completed, as of December 31, 
    2022, at least 24 months in a position to be eliminated pursuant to 
    the plan may remain in the position until the last day of the month 
    that is 24 months after the month in which the officer assumed the 
    duties of the position.
        (2) Report to congress on covered officers.--The Secretary of 
    Defense shall include in the annual report required by section 
    526(j) of title 10, United States Code, in 2020 a description of 
    the positions in which an officer will remain pursuant to paragraph 
    (1), including the latest date on which the officer may remain in 
    such position pursuant to that paragraph.
        (3) Notice to congress on detachment of covered officers.--The 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a notice on 
    the date on which each officer covered by paragraph (1) is detached 
    from the officer's position pursuant to such paragraph.
    (g) Relation to Subsequent General or Flag Nominations.--
        (1) Notice to senate with nomination.--In order to help achieve 
    the requirements of the plan required by subsection (b), effective 
    30 days after the commencement of the implementation of the plan, 
    the Secretary of Defense shall include with each nomination of an 
    officer to a grade above colonel or captain (in the case of the 
    Navy) that is forwarded by the President to the Senate for 
    appointment, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, a 
    certification to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate that 
    the appointment of the officer to the grade concerned will not 
    interfere with achieving the reduction required by subsection 
    (a)(1) in the number of general and flag officer positions or the 
    distribution of authorized positions required by subsection (a)(2).
        (2) Implementation.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
    the submission of the plan required by subsection (b), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall revise applicable guidance of the 
    Department of Defense on general and flag officer authorizations in 
    order to ensure that--
            (A) the achievement of the reductions required pursuant to 
        subsection (a) is incorporated into the planning for the 
        execution of promotions by the military departments and for the 
        joint pool;
            (B) to the extent practicable, the resulting grades for 
        general and flag officer positions are uniformly applied to 
        positions of similar duties and responsibilities across the 
        military departments and the joint pool; and
            (C) planning achieves a reduction in the headquarters 
        functions and administrative and support activities and staffs 
        of the Department of Defense and the military departments 
        commensurate with the achievement of the reductions required 
        pursuant to subsection (a).
    (h) Authorized Strength After December 31, 2022, of General and 
Flag Officers on Active Duty.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 32 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 526 the following new section:
``Sec. 526a. Authorized strength after December 31, 2022: general 
    officers and flag officers on active duty
    ``(a) Limitations.--The number of general officers on active duty 
in the Army, Air Force, and Marine Corps, and the number of flag 
officers on active duty in the Navy, after December 31, 2022, may not 
exceed the number specified for the armed force concerned as follows:
        ``(1) For the Army, 220.
        ``(2) For the Navy, 151.
        ``(3) For the Air Force, 187.
        ``(4) For the Marine Corps, 62.
    ``(b) Limited Exclusion for Joint Duty Requirements.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may designate up to 
    232 general officer and flag officer positions that are joint duty 
    assignments for purposes of chapter 38 of this title for exclusion 
    from the limitations in subsection (a).
        ``(2) Minimum number.--Unless the Secretary of Defense 
    determines that a lower number is in the best interest of the 
    Department of Defense, the minimum number of officers serving in 
    positions designated under paragraph (1) for each armed force shall 
    be as follows:
            ``(A) For the Army, 75.
            ``(B) For the Navy, 53.
            ``(C) For the Air Force, 68.
            ``(D) For the Marine Corps, 17.
    ``(c) Exclusion of Certain Officers Pending Separation or 
Retirement or Between Senior Positions.--The limitations of this 
section do not apply to--
        ``(1) an officer of an armed force in the grade of brigadier 
    general or above or, in the case of the Navy, in the grade of rear 
    admiral (lower half) or above, who is on leave pending the 
    retirement, separation, or release of that officer from active 
    duty, but only during the 60-day period beginning on the date of 
    the commencement of such leave of such officer; or
        ``(2) an officer of an armed force who has been relieved from a 
    position designated under section 601(a) of this title or by law to 
    carry one of the grades specified in such section, but only during 
    the 60-day period beginning on the date on which the assignment of 
    the officer to the first position is terminated or until the 
    officer is assigned to a second such position, whichever occurs 
    first.
    ``(d) Temporary Exclusion for Assignment to Certain Temporary 
Billets.--
        ``(1) In general.--The limitations in subsection (a) do not 
    apply to a general officer or flag officer assigned to a temporary 
    joint duty assignment designated by the Secretary of Defense.
        ``(2) Duration of exclusion.--A general officer or flag officer 
    assigned to a temporary joint duty assignment as described in 
    paragraph (1) may not be excluded under this subsection from the 
    limitations in subsection (a) for a period of longer than one year.
    ``(e) Exclusion of Officers Departing From Joint Duty 
Assignments.--The limitations in subsection (a) do not apply to an 
officer released from a joint duty assignment, but only during the 60-
day period beginning on the date the officer departs the joint duty 
assignment. The Secretary of Defense may authorize the Secretary of a 
military department to extend the 60-day period by an additional 120 
days, except that not more than three officers on active duty from each 
armed force may be covered by the additional extension at the same 
time.
    ``(f) Active-Duty Baseline.--
        ``(1) Notice and wait requirements.--If the Secretary of a 
    military department proposes an action that would increase above 
    the baseline the number of general officers or flag officers of an 
    armed force under the jurisdiction of that Secretary who would be 
    on active duty and would count against the statutory limit 
    applicable to that armed force under subsection (a), the action 
    shall not take effect until after the end of the 60-calendar day 
    period beginning on the date on which the Secretary provides notice 
    of the proposed action, including the rationale for the action, to 
    the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives.
        ``(2) Baseline defined.--In paragraph (1), the term `baseline' 
    for an armed force means the lower of--
            ``(A) the statutory limit of general officers or flag 
        officers of that armed force under subsection (a); or
            ``(B) the actual number of general officers or flag 
        officers of that armed force who, as of January 1, 2023, 
        counted toward the statutory limit of general officers or flag 
        officers of that armed force under subsection (a).
    ``(g) Joint Duty Assignment Baseline.--
        ``(1) Notice and wait requirement.--If the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Secretary of a military department, or the Chairman of 
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff proposes an action that would increase 
    above the baseline the number of general officers and flag officers 
    of the armed forces in joint duty assignments who count against the 
    statutory limit under subsection (b)(1), the action shall not take 
    effect until after the end of the 60-calendar day period beginning 
    on the date on which such Secretary or the Chairman, as the case 
    may be, provides notice of the proposed action, including the 
    rationale for the action, to the Committees on Armed Services of 
    the Senate and the House of Representatives.
        ``(2) Baseline defined.--In paragraph (1), the term `baseline' 
    means the lower of--
            ``(A) the statutory limit on general officer and flag 
        officer positions that are joint duty assignments under 
        subsection (b)(1); or
            ``(B) the actual number of general officers and flag 
        officers who, as of January 1, 2023, were in joint duty 
        assignments counted toward the statutory limit under subsection 
        (b)(1).
    ``(h) Annual Report.--Not later than March 1 each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report specifying the 
following:
        ``(1) The numbers of general officers and flag officers who, as 
    of January 1 of the calendar year in which the report is submitted, 
    counted toward the service-specific limits of subsection (a).
        ``(2) The number of general officers and flag officers in joint 
    duty assignments who, as of such January 1, counted toward the 
    statutory limit under subsection (b)(1).''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 526 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(k) Cessation of Applicability.--The provisions of this section 
shall not apply to number of general officers and flag officers in the 
armed forces after December 31, 2022. For provisions applicable to the 
number of such officers after that date, see section 526a of this 
title.''.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 32 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 526 the following new 
    item:

``526a. Authorized strength after December 31, 2022: general officers 
          and flag officers on active duty.''.
    SEC. 502. REPEAL OF STATUTORY SPECIFICATION OF GENERAL OR FLAG 
      OFFICER GRADE FOR VARIOUS POSITIONS IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Assistants to CJCS for NG Matters and Reserve Matters.--
        (1) In general.--Section 155a of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 5 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 155a.
    (b) Legal Counsel to CJCS.--Section 156 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
    (c) Director of Test Resource Management Center.--Section 196(b)(1) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the second and 
third sentences.
    (d) Director of Missile Defense Agency.--
        (1) In general.--Section 203 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 8 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 203.
    (e) Joint 4-Star Positions.--Section 604(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (3).
    (f) Senior Members of Military Staff Committee of UN.--Section 711 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the second 
sentence.
    (g) Chief of Staff to President.--
        (1) In general.--Section 720 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 41 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 720.
    (h) Attending Physician to Congress.--
        (1) In general.--Section 722 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 41 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 722.
    (i) Physician to White House.--
        (1) In general.--Section 744 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 43 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 744.
    (j) Chief of Legislative Liaison of the Army.--Section 3023(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the second 
sentence.
    (k) Chiefs of Branches of the Army.--Section 3036(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended in the flush matter following paragraph 
(2)--
        (1) by striking the first sentence; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``, and while so 
    serving, has the grade of lieutenant general''.
    (l) Judge Advocate General of the Army.--Section 3037(a) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking the last two sentences.
    (m) Chief of Army Reserve.--Section 3038(c) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``; Grade'';
        (2) by striking ``(1)''; and
        (3) by striking paragraph (2).
    (n) Deputy and Assistant Chiefs of Branches of the Army.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3039 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 305 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 3039.
    (o) Chief of Army Nurse Corps.--Section 3069(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking the second sentence.
    (p) Assistant Chiefs of Army Medical Specialist Corps.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3070 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``and assistant 
        chiefs'';
            (B) by striking subsection (c); and
            (C) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 3070. Army Medical Specialist Corps: organization; Chief''.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 307 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 3070 and inserting the following new item:

``3070. Army Medical Specialist Corps: organization; Chief.''.

    (q) Judge Advocate General's Corps of the Army.--Section 3072 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (3); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), respectively.
    (r) Chief of Veterinary Corps of the Army.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3084 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by striking the second sentence.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 3084. Chief of Veterinary Corps''.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 307 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 3084 and inserting the following new item:

``3084. Chief of Veterinary Corps.''.

    (s) Army Aides.--
        (1) In general.--Section 3543 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 343 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 3543.
    (t) Principal Military Deputy to Assistant Secretary of the Navy 
for RD&A.--Section 5016(b)(4)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``a vice admiral of the Navy or a lieutenant 
general of the Marine Corps'' and inserting ``an officer of the Navy or 
the Marine Corps''.
    (u) Chief of Naval Research.--Section 5022 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(1)''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (2).
    (v) Chief of Legislative Affairs of the Navy.--Section 5027(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the second 
sentence.
    (w) Director for Expeditionary Warfare.--Section 5038 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (b) 
    and (c), respectively.
    (x) SJA to Commandant of the Marine Corps.--Section 5046(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the last sentence.
    (y) Legislative Assistant to Commandant of the Marine Corps.--
Section 5047 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
the second sentence.
    (z) Bureau Chiefs of the Navy.--
        (1) In general.--Section 5133 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 513 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 5133.
    (aa) Chief of Dental Corps of the Navy.--Section 5138 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``not below the grade of 
    rear admiral (lower half)''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking the first sentence.
    (bb) Bureau of Naval Personnel.--
        (1) In general.--Section 5141 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking the first sentence; and
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking the first sentence.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 5141. Chief of Naval Personnel; Deputy Chief of Naval 
    Personnel''.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 513 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 5141 and inserting the following new item:

``5141. Chief of Naval Personnel; Deputy Chief of Naval Personnel.''.

    (cc) Chief of Chaplains of the Navy.--Section 5142 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (e).
    (dd) Chief of Navy Reserve.--Section 5143(c) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``; Grade'';
        (2) by striking ``(1)''; and
        (3) by striking paragraph (2).
    (ee) Commander, Marine Forces Reserve.--Section 5144(c) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``; Grade'';
        (2) by striking ``(1)''; and
        (3) by striking paragraph (2).
    (ff) Judge Advocate General of the Navy.--Section 5148(b) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking the last sentence.
    (gg) Deputy and Assistant Judge Advocates General of the Navy.--
Section 5149 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``, by and with the 
        advice and consent of the Senate,''; and
            (B) by striking the second sentence; and
        (2) in each of subsections (b) and (c), by striking the second 
    and last sentences.
    (hh) Chiefs of Staff Corps of the Navy.--Section 5150 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``Subject to subsection 
    (c), the Secretary'' and inserting ``The Secretary''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (c).
    (ii) Principal Military Deputy to Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force for Acquisition.--Section 8016(b)(4)(B) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``a lieutenant general'' and 
inserting ``an officer''.
    (jj) Chief of Legislative Liaison of the Air Force.--Section 
8023(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
second sentence.
    (kk) Judge Advocate General and Deputy Judge Advocate General of 
the Air Force.--Section 8037 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking the last sentence; and
        (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking the last sentence.
    (ll) Chief of the Air Force Reserve.--Section 8038(c) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``; Grade'';
        (2) by striking ``(1)''; and
        (3) by striking paragraph (2).
    (mm) Chief of Chaplains of the Air Force.--Section 8039 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (A); and
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
        (2) by striking subsection (c).
    (nn) Chief of Air Force Nurses.--
        (1) In general.--Section 8069 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)--
                (i) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Positions 
            of Chief and Assistant Chief'' and inserting ``Position of 
            Chief''; and
                (ii) by striking ``and assistant chief'';
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking the second sentence; and
            (C) by striking subsection (c).
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 8069. Air Force nurses: Chief; appointment''.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 807 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 8069 and inserting the following new item:

``8069. Air Force nurses: Chief; appointment.''.

    (oo) Assistant Surgeon General for Dental Services of the Air 
Force.--Section 8081 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking the second sentence.
    (pp) Air Force Aides.--
        (1) In general.--Section 8543 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 843 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 8543.
    (qq) Dean of Faculty of the Air Force Academy.--Section 9335(b) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the first and 
third sentences.
    (rr) Vice Chief of the National Guard Bureau.--Section 10505(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (C), by adding ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``; and'' at the end 
        and inserting a period; and
            (C) by striking subparagraph (E); and
        (2) by striking subsection (c).
    (ss) Other Senior National Guard Bureau Officers.--Section 
10506(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended in each of 
subparagraphs (A) and (B)--
        (1) by striking ``general''; and
        (2) by striking ``, and shall hold the grade of lieutenant 
    general while so serving,''.
    SEC. 503. NUMBER OF MARINE CORPS GENERAL OFFICERS.
    (a) Distribution of Commissioned Officers on Active Duty in General 
Officer and Flag Officer Grades.--Section 525(a)(4) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``15'' and inserting 
    ``17''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``23'' and inserting 
    ``22''.
    (b) General and Flag Officers on Active Duty.--Section 526(a)(4) of 
such title is amended by striking ``61'' and inserting ``62''.
    (c) Deputy Commandants.--Section 5045 of such title is amended by 
striking ``six'' and inserting ``seven''.
    SEC. 504. PROMOTION ELIGIBILITY PERIOD FOR OFFICERS WHOSE 
      CONFIRMATION OF APPOINTMENT IS DELAYED DUE TO NONAVAILABILITY TO 
      THE SENATE OF PROBATIVE INFORMATION UNDER CONTROL OF NON-
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    Section 629(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Paragraph (1) does not apply when the Senate is not able to 
obtain information necessary to give its advice and consent to the 
appointment concerned because that information is under the control of 
a department or agency of the Federal Government other than the 
Department of Defense.''.
    SEC. 505. CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN OFFICERS ON ACTIVE DUTY WITHOUT 
      REGARD TO REQUIREMENT FOR RETIREMENT FOR YEARS OF SERVICE.
    (a) Authority for Continuation on Active Duty.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter IV of chapter 36 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 637 the 
    following new section:
``Sec. 637a. Continuation on active duty: officers in certain military 
    specialties and career tracks
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of the military department 
concerned may authorize an officer in a grade above grade O-4 to remain 
on active duty after the date otherwise provided for the retirement of 
the officer in section 633, 634, 635, or 636 of this title, as 
applicable, if the officer has a military occupational specialty, 
rating, or specialty code in a military specialty designated pursuant 
to subsection (b).
    ``(b) Military Specialties.--Each Secretary of a military 
department shall designate the military specialties in which a military 
occupational specialty, rating, or specialty code, as applicable, 
assigned to members of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of such 
Secretary authorizes the members to be eligible for continuation on 
active duty as provided in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Duration of Continuation.--An officer continued on active 
duty pursuant to this section shall, if not earlier retired, be retired 
on the first day of the month after the month in which the officer 
completes 40 years of active service.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretaries of the military departments 
shall carry out this section in accordance with regulations prescribed 
by the Secretary of Defense. The regulations shall specify the criteria 
to be used by the Secretaries of the military departments in 
designating military specialities for purposes of subsection (b).''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter IV of chapter 36 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 637 the 
    following new item:

``637a. Continuation on active duty: officers in certain military 
          specialties and career tracks.''.

    (b) Conforming Amendments.--The following provisions of title 10, 
United States Code, are amended by inserting ``or 637a'' after 
``637(b)'':
        (1) Section 633(a).
        (2) Section 634(a).
        (3) Section 635.
        (4) Section 636(a).
    SEC. 506. EQUAL CONSIDERATION OF OFFICERS FOR EARLY RETIREMENT OR 
      DISCHARGE.
    Section 638a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(4) Convening selection boards under section 611(b) of this 
    title to consider for early retirement or discharge regular 
    officers on the active-duty list in a grade below lieutenant 
    colonel or commander--
            ``(A) who have served at least one year of active duty in 
        the grade currently held; and
            ``(B) whose names are not on a list of officers recommended 
        for promotion.'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e)(1) In the case of action under subsection (b)(4), the 
Secretary of the military department concerned shall specify the total 
number of officers described in that subsection that a selection board 
convened under section 611(b) of this title pursuant to the authority 
of that subsection may recommend for early retirement or discharge. 
Officers who are eligible, or are within two years of becoming 
eligible, to be retired under any provision of law (other than by 
reason of eligibility pursuant to section 4403 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (Public Law 102-484)), if 
selected by the board, shall be retired or retained until becoming 
eligible to retire under section 3911, 6323, or 8911 of this title, and 
those officers who are otherwise ineligible to retire under any 
provision of law shall, if selected by the board, be discharged.
    ``(2) In the case of action under subsection (b)(4), the Secretary 
of the military department concerned may submit to a selection board 
convened pursuant to that subsection--
        ``(A) the names of all eligible officers described in that 
    subsection, whether or not they are eligible to be retired under 
    any provision of law, in a particular grade and competitive 
    category; or
        ``(B) the names of all eligible officers described in that 
    subsection in a particular grade and competitive category, whether 
    or not they are eligible to be retired under any provision of law, 
    who are also in particular year groups, specialties, or retirement 
    categories, or any combination thereof, with that competitive 
    category.
    ``(3) The number of officers specified under paragraph (1) may not 
be more than 30 percent of the number of officers considered.
    ``(4) An officer who is recommended for discharge by a selection 
board convened pursuant to the authority of subsection (b)(4) and whose 
discharge is approved by the Secretary concerned shall be discharged on 
a date specified by the Secretary concerned.
    ``(5) Selection of officers for discharge under this subsection 
shall be based on the needs of the service.''.
    SEC. 507. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO DROP FROM ROLLS A 
      COMMISSIONED OFFICER.
    Section 1161(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``or the Secretary of Defense, or in the case of a 
commissioned officer of the Coast Guard, the Secretary of the 
department in which the Coast Guard is operating when it is not 
operating in the Navy,'' after ``President''.
    SEC. 508. EXTENSION OF FORCE MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES ALLOWING 
      ENHANCED FLEXIBILITY FOR OFFICER PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.
    (a) Temporary Early Retirement Authority.--Section 4403(i) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1993 (10 U.S.C. 1293 
note) is amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2025''.
    (b) Continuation on Active Duty.--Section 638a(a)(2) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2025''.
    (c) Voluntary Separation Pay.--Section 1175a(k)(1) of such title is 
amended by striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2025''.
    (d) Service-in-Grade Waivers.--Section 1370(a)(2)(F) of such title 
is amended by striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2025''.
    SEC. 509. PILOT PROGRAMS ON DIRECT COMMISSIONS TO CYBER POSITIONS.
    (a) Pilot Programs Authorized.--Each Secretary of a military 
department may carry out a pilot program to improve the ability of an 
Armed Force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary to recruit cyber 
professionals.
    (b) Elements.--Under a pilot program established under this 
section, an individual who meets educational, physical, and other 
requirements determined appropriate by the Secretary of the military 
department concerned may receive an original appointment as a 
commissioned officer in a cyber specialty.
    (c) Consultation.--In developing a pilot program for the Army or 
the Air Force under this section, the Secretary of the Army and the 
Secretary of the Air Force may consult with the Secretary of the Navy 
with respect to an existing, similar program carried out by the 
Secretary of the Navy.
    (d) Duration.--
        (1) Commencement.--The Secretary of a military department may 
    commence a pilot program under this section on or after January 1, 
    2017.
        (2) Termination.--All pilot programs under this section shall 
    terminate no later than December 31, 2022.
    (e) Status Report.--Not later than January 1, 2020, each Secretary 
of a military department who conducts a pilot program under this 
section shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report containing an evaluation of 
the success of the program in obtaining skilled cyber personnel for the 
Armed Forces.
    SEC. 510. LENGTH OF JOINT DUTY ASSIGNMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 664 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``assignment--'' and all that 
follows and inserting ``assignment shall be not less than two years.''.
    (b) Repeal of Authority for Shorter Length for Officers Initially 
Assigned to Critical Occupational Specialties.--Such section is further 
amended by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Exclusions From Tour Length.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``the 
    standards prescribed in subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the 
    requirement in subsection (a)'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking ``assignment--'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``assignment as prescribed by the 
    Secretary of Defense in regulations.'';
        (3) by striking paragraph (2);
        (4) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2); and
        (5) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by paragraph (4) of this 
    subsection, by striking ``the applicable standard prescribed in 
    subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the requirement in subsection 
    (a)''.
    (d) Repeal of Average Tour Length Requirements.--Such section is 
further amended by striking subsection (e).
    (e) Full Tour of Duty.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``standards prescribed in 
    subsection (a)'' and inserting ``the requirement in subsection 
    (a)'';
        (2) by striking paragraphs (2) and (4);
        (3) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (5), and (6) as paragraphs 
    (2), (3), and (4), respectively; and
        (4) in paragraph (4), as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this 
    subsection, by striking ``, but not less than two years''.
    (f) Constructive Credit.--Subsection (h) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``(1)'';
        (2) by striking ``accord'' and inserting ``award''; and
        (3) by striking paragraph (2).
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (f), (g), and (h), as 
    amended by this section, as subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f), 
    respectively;
        (2) in paragraph (2) of subsection (c), as so redesignated and 
    amended, by striking ``subsection (f)(3)'' and inserting 
    ``subsection (d)(2)''.
        (3) paragraph (2) of subsection (d), as so redesignated and 
    amended, by striking ``subsection (g)'' and inserting ``subsection 
    (e)'';
        (4) in subsection (e), as so redesignated and amended, by 
    striking ``subsection (f)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (d)(2)''; 
    and
        (5) in subsection (f), as so redesignated and amended, by 
    striking ``paragraphs (1), (2), and (4) of subsection (f)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (d)(1)''.
SEC. 510A. REVISION OF DEFINITIONS USED FOR JOINT OFFICER MANAGEMENT.
    (a) Definition of Joint Matters.--Paragraph (1) of section 668(a) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(1) In this chapter, the term `joint matters' means matters 
related to any of the following:
        ``(A) The development or achievement of strategic objectives 
    through the synchronization, coordination, and organization of 
    integrated forces in operations conducted across domains, such as 
    land, sea, or air, in space, or in the information environment, 
    including matters relating to any of the following:
            ``(i) National military strategy.
            ``(ii) Strategic planning and contingency planning.
            ``(iii) Command and control, intelligence, fires, movement 
        and maneuver, protection or sustainment of operations under 
        unified command.
            ``(iv) National security planning with other departments 
        and agencies of the United States.
            ``(v) Combined operations with military forces of allied 
        nations.
        ``(B) Acquisition matters conducted by members of the armed 
    forces and covered under chapter 87 of this title involved in 
    developing, testing, contracting, producing, or fielding of multi-
    service programs or systems.
        ``(C) Other matters designated in regulation by the Secretary 
    of Defense in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff.''.
    (b) Definition of Integrated Forces.--Section 668(a)(2) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding subparagraph 
(A)--
        (1) by striking ``integrated military forces'' and inserting 
    ``integrated forces''; and
        (2) by striking ``the planning or execution (or both) of 
    operations involving'' and inserting ``achieving unified action 
    with''.
    (c) Definition of Joint Duty Assignment.--Section 668(b)(1) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subparagraph (A) 
and inserting the following new subparagraph:
        ``(A) shall be limited to assignments in which--
            ``(i) the preponderance of the duties of the officer 
        involve joint matters and
            ``(ii) the officer gains significant experience in joint 
        matters; and''.
    (d) Repeal of Definition of Critical Occupational Speciality.--
Section 668 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
subsection (d).

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

    SEC. 511. AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY WAIVER OF LIMITATION ON TERM OF 
      SERVICE OF VICE CHIEF OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU.
    Section 10505(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``paragraph (3)(B) for a limited period of time'' and 
inserting ``paragraph (3) for not more than 90 days''.
    SEC. 512. RIGHTS AND PROTECTIONS AVAILABLE TO MILITARY TECHNICIANS.
    (a) In General.--Section 709 of title 32, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (f)--
            (A) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
        ``when the appeal concerns activity occurring while the member 
        is in a military pay status, or concerns fitness for duty in 
        the reserve components;'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
        paragraph (5):
        ``(5) with respect to an appeal concerning any activity not 
    covered by paragraph (4), the provisions of sections 7511, 7512, 
    and 7513 of title 5, and section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 
    1991 (42 U.S.C. 2000e-16) shall apply; and''; and
        (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``Sections'' and inserting 
    ``Except as provided in subsection (f), sections''.
    (b) Definitions.--Section 709 of title 32, United States Code, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) In this section:
        ``(1) The term `military pay status' means a period of service 
    where the amount of pay payable to a technician for that service is 
    based on rates of military pay provided for under title 37.
        ``(2) The term `fitness for duty in the reserve components' 
    refers only to military-unique service requirements that attend to 
    military service generally, including service in the reserve 
    components or service on active duty.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 7511(b) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (5).
    SEC. 513. INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN LAWS TO NATIONAL GUARD 
      TECHNICIANS PERFORMING ACTIVE GUARD AND RESERVE DUTY.
    Section 709(g) of title 32, United States Code, as amended by 
section 512(a)(2), is further amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(g)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In addition to the sections referred to in paragraph (1), 
section 6323(a)(1) of title 5 also does not apply to a person employed 
under this section who is performing active Guard and Reserve duty (as 
that term is defined in section 101(d)(6) of title 10).''.
    SEC. 514. EXTENSION OF REMOVAL OF RESTRICTIONS ON THE TRANSFER OF 
      OFFICERS BETWEEN THE ACTIVE AND INACTIVE NATIONAL GUARD.
    Section 512 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 752; 32 U.S.C. prec. 301 note) 
is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''; 
    and
        (2) in subsection (b) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
    striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
    SEC. 515. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO USE AIR FORCE RESERVE 
      COMPONENT PERSONNEL TO PROVIDE TRAINING AND INSTRUCTION REGARDING 
      PILOT TRAINING.
    Section 514(a)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 810) is amended by 
inserting ``and fiscal year 2017'' after ``During fiscal year 2016''.
    SEC. 516. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR DEPUTY COMMANDER OF 
      COMBATANT COMMAND HAVING UNITED STATES AMONG GEOGRAPHIC AREA OF 
      RESPONSIBILITY TO INCLUDE OFFICERS OF THE RESERVES.
    Section 164(e)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``the National Guard'' and inserting ``a 
    reserve component of the armed forces''; and
        (2) by striking ``a National Guard officer'' and inserting ``a 
    reserve component officer''.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

    SEC. 521. MATTERS RELATING TO PROVISION OF LEAVE FOR MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES, INCLUDING PROHIBITION ON LEAVE NOT EXPRESSLY 
      AUTHORIZED BY LAW.
    (a) Primary and Secondary Caregiver Leave.--Section 701 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsections (i) and (j); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
    subsections (i) and (j):
    ``(i)(1)(A) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Defense, a member of the armed forces described in paragraph (2) who is 
the primary caregiver in the case of the birth of a child is allowed up 
to twelve weeks of total leave, including up to six weeks of medical 
convalescent leave, to be used in connection with such birth.
    ``(B) Under the regulations prescribed for purposes of this 
subsection, a member of the armed forces described in paragraph (2) who 
is the primary caregiver in the case of the adoption of a child is 
allowed up to six weeks of total leave to be used in connection with 
such adoption.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) applies to the following members:
        ``(A) A member on active duty.
        ``(B) A member of a reserve component performing active Guard 
    and Reserve duty.
        ``(C) A member of a reserve component subject to an active duty 
    recall or mobilization order in excess of 12 months.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall prescribe in the regulations referred to 
in paragraph (1) a definition of the term `primary caregiver' for 
purposes of this subsection.
    ``(4) Notwithstanding paragraph (1)(A), a member may receive more 
than six weeks of medical convalescent leave in connection with the 
birth of a child, but only if the additional medical convalescent 
leave--
        ``(A) is specifically recommended, in writing, by the medical 
    provider of the member to address a diagnosed medical condition; 
    and
        ``(B) is approved by the commander of the member.
    ``(5) Any leave taken by a member under this subsection, including 
leave under paragraphs (1) and (4), may be taken only in one increment 
in connection with such birth or adoption.
    ``(6)(A) Any leave authorized by this subsection that is not taken 
within one year of such birth or adoption shall be forfeited.
    ``(B) Any leave authorized by this subsection for a member of a 
reserve component on active duty that is not taken by the time the 
member is separated from active duty shall be forfeited at that time.
    ``(7) The period of active duty of a member of a reserve component 
may not be extended in order to permit the member to take leave 
authorized by this subsection.
    ``(8) Under the regulations prescribed for purposes of this 
subsection, a member taking leave under paragraph (1) may, as a 
condition for taking such leave, be required--
        ``(A) to accept an extension of the member's current service 
    obligation, if any, by one week for every week of leave taken under 
    paragraph (1); or
        ``(B) to incur a reduction in the member's leave account by one 
    week for every week of leave taken under paragraph (1).
    ``(9)(A) Leave authorized by this subsection is in addition to any 
other leave provided under other provisions of this section.
    ``(B) Medical convalescent leave under paragraph (4) is in addition 
to any other leave provided under other provisions of this subsection.
    ``(10)(A) Subject to subparagraph (B), a member taking leave under 
paragraph (1) during a period of obligated service shall not be 
eligible for terminal leave, or to sell back leave, at the end such 
period of obligated service.
    ``(B) Under the regulations for purposes of this subsection, the 
Secretary concerned may waive, whether in whole or in part, the 
applicability of subparagraph (A) to a member who reenlists at the end 
of the member's period of obligated service described in that 
subparagraph if the Secretary determines that the waiver is in the 
interests of the armed force concerned.
    ``(j)(1) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, 
a member of the armed forces described in subsection (i)(2) who is the 
secondary caregiver in the case of the birth of a child or the adoption 
of a child is allowed up to 21 days of leave to be used in connection 
with such birth or adoption.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall prescribe in the regulations referred to 
in paragraph (1) a definition of the term `secondary caregiver' for 
purposes of this subsection.
    ``(3) Any leave taken by a member under this subsection may be 
taken only in one increment in connection with such birth or adoption.
    ``(4) Under the regulations prescribed for purposes of this 
subsection, paragraphs (6) through (10) of subsection (i) (other than 
paragraph (9)(B) of such subsection) shall apply to leave, and the 
taking of leave, authorized by this subsection.''.
    (b) Prohibition on Leave Not Expressly Authorized by Law.--
        (1) Prohibition.--Chapter 40 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 704 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 704a. Administration of leave: prohibition on authorizing, 
    granting, or assigning leave not expressly authorized by law
    ``No member or category of members of the armed forces may be 
authorized, granted, or assigned leave, including uncharged leave, not 
expressly authorized by a provision of this chapter or another statute 
unless expressly authorized by an Act of Congress enacted after the 
date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2017.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 40 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 704 the following new 
    item:

``704a. Administration of leave: prohibition on authorizing, granting, 
          or assigning leave not expressly authorized by law.''.
    SEC. 522. TRANSFER OF PROVISION RELATING TO EXPENSES INCURRED IN 
      CONNECTION WITH LEAVE CANCELED DUE TO CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Enactment in Title 10, United States Code, of Authority for 
Reimbursement of Expenses.--Chapter 40 of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by inserting after section 709 the following new section:
``Sec. 709a. Expenses incurred in connection with leave canceled due to 
    contingency operations: reimbursement
    ``(a) Authorization To Reimburse.--The Secretary concerned may 
reimburse a member of the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the 
Secretary for travel and related expenses (to the extent not otherwise 
reimbursable under law) incurred by the member as a result of the 
cancellation of previously approved leave when--
        ``(1) the leave is canceled in connection with the member's 
    participation in a contingency operation; and
        ``(2) the cancellation occurs within 48 hours of the time the 
    leave would have commenced.
    ``(b) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense and, in the case of 
the Coast Guard when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall prescribe regulations to establish 
the criteria for the applicability of subsection (a).
    ``(c) Conclusiveness of Settlement.--The settlement of an 
application for reimbursement under subsection (a) is final and 
conclusive.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 40 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 709 the following new item:

``709a. Expenses incurred in connection with leave canceled due to 
          contingency operations: reimbursement.''.

    (c) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 453 of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (g).
    SEC. 523. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO EXECUTE CERTAIN MILITARY 
      INSTRUMENTS.
    (a) Expansion of Authority To Execute Military Testamentary 
Instruments.--Section 1044d(c) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
        ``(2) the execution of the instrument is notarized by--
            ``(A) a military legal assistance counsel;
            ``(B) a person who is authorized to act as a notary under 
        section 1044a of this title who--
                ``(i) is not an attorney; and
                ``(ii) is supervised by a military legal assistance 
            counsel; or
            ``(C) a State-licensed notary employed by a military 
        department or the Coast Guard who is supervised by a military 
        legal assistance counsel;''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``presiding attorney'' and 
    inserting ``person notarizing the instrument in accordance with 
    paragraph (2)''.
    (b) Expansion of Authority To Notarize Documents to Civilians 
Serving in Military Legal Assistance Offices.--Section 1044a(b) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(6) All civilian paralegals serving at military legal 
    assistance offices, supervised by a military legal assistance 
    counsel (as defined in section 1044d(g) of this title).''.
    SEC. 524. MEDICAL EXAMINATION BEFORE ADMINISTRATIVE SEPARATION FOR 
      MEMBERS WITH POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER OR TRAUMATIC BRAIN 
      INJURY IN CONNECTION WITH SEXUAL ASSAULT.
    Section 1177(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``, or sexually assaulted,'' after ``deployed 
    overseas in support of a contingency operation''; and
        (2) by inserting ``or based on such sexual assault,'' after 
    ``while deployed,''.
    SEC. 525. REDUCTION OF TENURE ON THE TEMPORARY DISABILITY RETIRED 
      LIST.
    (a) Reduction of Tenure.--Section 1210 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``five years'' and inserting 
    ``three years''; and
        (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``five years'' and inserting 
    ``three years''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2017, and shall apply to members of the Armed 
Forces whose names are placed on the temporary disability retired list 
on or after that date.
    SEC. 526. TECHNICAL CORRECTION TO VOLUNTARY SEPARATION PAY AND 
      BENEFITS.
    Section 1175a(j) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``or 12304'' and inserting ``12304, 12304a, 
        or 12304b''; and
            (B) by striking ``502(f)(1)'' and inserting 
        ``502(f)(1)(A)''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``502(f)(2)'' and inserting 
    ``502(f)(1)(B)''.
    SEC. 527. CONSOLIDATION OF ARMY MARKETING AND PILOT PROGRAM ON 
      CONSOLIDATED ARMY RECRUITING.
    (a) Consolidation of Army Marketing.--Not later than October 1, 
2017, the Secretary of the Army shall consolidate into a single 
organization within the Department of the Army all functions relating 
to the marketing of the Army and each of the components of the Army in 
order to assure unity of effort and cost effectiveness in the marketing 
of the Army and each of the components of the Army.
    (b) Pilot Program on Consolidated Army Recruiting.--
        (1) Pilot program required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall 
    carry out a pilot program to consolidate the recruiting efforts of 
    the Regular Army, Army Reserve, and Army National Guard under which 
    a recruiter in one of the components participating in the pilot 
    program may recruit individuals to enlist in any of the components 
    regardless of the funding source of the recruiting activity.
        (2) Credit toward enlistment goals.--Under the pilot program, a 
    recruiter shall receive credit toward periodic enlistment goals for 
    each enlistment regardless of the component in which the individual 
    enlists.
        (3) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
    for a period of not less than three years.
    (c) Briefing and Reports.--
        (1) Briefing on consolidation plan.--Not later than March 1, 
    2017, the Secretary of the Army shall provide to the Committees on 
    Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
    briefing on the Secretary's plan to carry out the Army marketing 
    consolidation required by subsection (a).
        (2) Interim report on pilot program.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date on 
        which the pilot program under subsection (b) commences, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the congressional committees 
        specified in paragraph (1) a report on the pilot program.
            (B) Elements.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include each of the following:
                (i) An analysis of the effects that consolidated 
            recruiting efforts has on the overall ability of recruiters 
            to attract and place qualified candidates.
                (ii) A determination of the extent to which 
            consolidating recruiting efforts affects efficiency and 
            recruiting costs.
                (iii) An analysis of any challenges associated with a 
            recruiter working to recruit individuals to enlist in a 
            component in which the recruiter has not served.
                (iv) An analysis of the satisfaction of recruiters and 
            the component recruiting commands with the pilot program.
        (3) Final report on pilot program.--Not later than 180 days 
    after the date on which the pilot program is completed, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional committees specified in 
    paragraph (1) a final report on the pilot program. The final report 
    shall include any recommendations of the Secretary with respect to 
    extending or making permanent the pilot program and a description 
    of any related legislative actions that the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.

Subtitle D--Member Whistleblower Protections and Correction of Military 
                                Records

    SEC. 531. IMPROVEMENTS TO WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION PROCEDURES.
    (a) Actions Treatable as Prohibited Personnel Actions.--Paragraph 
(2) of section 1034(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) The actions considered for purposes of this section to be 
a personnel action prohibited by this subsection shall include any 
action prohibited by paragraph (1), including any of the following:
        ``(i) The threat to take any unfavorable action.
        ``(ii) The withholding, or threat to withhold, any favorable 
    action.
        ``(iii) The making of, or threat to make, a significant change 
    in the duties or responsibilities of a member of the armed forces 
    not commensurate with the member's grade.
        ``(iv) The failure of a superior to respond to any retaliatory 
    action or harassment (of which the superior had actual knowledge) 
    taken by one or more subordinates against a member.
        ``(v) The conducting of a retaliatory investigation of a 
    member.
    ``(B) In this paragraph, the term `retaliatory investigation' means 
an investigation requested, directed, initiated, or conducted for the 
primary purpose of punishing, harassing, or ostracizing a member of the 
armed forces for making a protected communication.
    ``(C) Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to limit the 
ability of a commander to consult with a superior in the chain of 
command, an inspector general, or a judge advocate general on the 
disposition of a complaint against a member of the armed forces for an 
allegation of collateral misconduct or for a matter unrelated to a 
protected communication. Such consultation shall provide an affirmative 
defense against an allegation that a member requested, directed, 
initiated, or conducted a retaliatory investigation under this 
section.''.
    (b) Action in Response to Hardship in Connection With Personnel 
Actions.--Section 1034 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(4)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (F); 
        and
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new 
        subparagraph (E):
    ``(E) If the Inspector General makes a preliminary determination in 
an investigation under subparagraph (D) that, more likely than not, a 
personnel action prohibited by subsection (b) has occurred and the 
personnel action will result in an immediate hardship to the member 
alleging the personnel action, the Inspector General shall promptly 
notify the Secretary of the military department concerned or the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, as applicable, of the hardship, and 
such Secretary shall take such action as such Secretary considers 
appropriate.''; and
        (2) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``subsection (c)(4)(E)'' 
    and inserting ``subsection (c)(4)(F)''.
    (c) Periodic Notice to Members on Progress of Inspector General 
Investigations.--Paragraph (3) of section 1034(e) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(3)(A) Not later than 180 days after the commencement of an 
investigation of an allegation under subsection (c)(4), and every 180 
days thereafter until the transmission of the report on the 
investigation under paragraph (1) to the member concerned, the 
Inspector General conducting the investigation shall submit a notice on 
the investigation described in subparagraph (B) to the following:
        ``(i) The member.
        ``(ii) The Secretary of Defense.
        ``(iii) The Secretary of the military department concerned, or 
    the Secretary of Homeland Security in the case of a member of the 
    Coast Guard when the Coast Guard is not operating as a service in 
    the Navy.
    ``(B) Each notice on an investigation under subparagraph (A) shall 
include the following:
        ``(i) A description of the current progress of the 
    investigation.
        ``(ii) An estimate of the time remaining until the completion 
    of the investigation and the transmittal of the report required by 
    paragraph (1) to the member concerned.''.
    (d) Correction of Records.--Paragraph (2) of section 1034(g) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) In resolving an application described in paragraph (1) for 
which there is a report of the Inspector General under subsection 
(e)(1), a correction board--
        ``(A) shall review the report of the Inspector General;
        ``(B) may request the Inspector General to gather further 
    evidence;
        ``(C) may receive oral argument, examine and cross-examine 
    witnesses, and take depositions; and
        ``(D) shall consider a request by a member or former member in 
    determining whether to hold an evidentiary hearing.''.
    (e) Uniform Standards for Inspector General Investigations of 
Prohibited Personnel Actions and Other Matters.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the Department of 
    Defense shall prescribe uniform standards for the following:
            (A) The investigation of allegations of prohibited 
        personnel actions under section 1034 of title 10, United States 
        Code (as amended by this section), by the Inspector General and 
        the Inspectors General of the military departments.
            (B) The training of the staffs of the Inspectors General 
        referred to in subparagraph (A) on the conduct of 
        investigations described in that subparagraph.
        (2) Use.--Commencing 180 days after prescription of the 
    standards required by paragraph (1), the Inspectors General 
    referred to in that paragraph shall comply with such standards in 
    the conduct of investigations described in that paragraph and in 
    the training of the staffs of such Inspectors General in the 
    conduct of such investigations.
    SEC. 532. MODIFICATION OF WHISTLEBLOWER PROTECTION AUTHORITIES TO 
      RESTRICT CONTRARY FINDINGS OF PROHIBITED PERSONNEL ACTION BY THE 
      SECRETARY CONCERNED.
    (a) In General.--Section 1034(f) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Violations'' and 
    inserting ``Substantiated Violations''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``there is sufficient basis'' 
    and all that follows and inserting ``corrective or disciplinary 
    action should be taken. If the Secretary concerned determines that 
    corrective or disciplinary action should be taken, the Secretary 
    shall take appropriate corrective or disciplinary action.''.
    (b) Actions Following Determinations.--Paragraph (2) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--
            (A) by striking ``the Secretary concerned determines under 
        paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``the Inspector General 
        determines''; and
            (B) by striking ``the Secretary shall'' and inserting ``the 
        Secretary concerned shall'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``, including referring 
    the report to the appropriate board for the correction of military 
    records'' before the semicolon; and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following 
    new subparagraph (B):
        ``(B) submit to the Inspector General a report on the actions 
    taken by the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph, and provide for 
    the inclusion of a summary of the report under this subparagraph 
    (with any personally identifiable information redacted) in the 
    semiannual report to Congress of the Inspector General of the 
    Department of Defense or the Inspector General of the Department of 
    Homeland Security, as applicable, under section 5 of the Inspector 
    General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to reports received by the Secretaries of the military 
departments and the Secretary of Homeland Security under section 
1034(e) of title 10, United States Code, on or after that date.
    SEC. 533. AVAILABILITY OF CERTAIN CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS 
      AND DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARD INFORMATION THROUGH THE INTERNET.
    (a) Board for the Correction of Military Records.--Section 1552 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following new 
    subsection (h):
    ``(h) Each board established under this section shall make 
available to the public each calender quarter, on an Internet website 
of the military department concerned or the Department of Homeland 
Security, as applicable, that is available to the public the following:
        ``(1) The number of claims considered by such board during the 
    calendar quarter preceding the calender quarter in which such 
    information is made available, including cases in which a mental 
    health condition of the claimant, including post-traumatic stress 
    disorder or traumatic brain injury, is alleged to have contributed, 
    whether in whole or part, to the original characterization of the 
    discharge or release of the claimant.
        ``(2) The number of claims submitted during the calendar 
    quarter preceding the calender quarter in which such information is 
    made available that relate to service by a claimant during a war or 
    contingency operation, catalogued by each war or contingency 
    operation.
        ``(3) The number of military records corrected pursuant to the 
    consideration described in paragraph (1) to upgrade the 
    characterization of discharge or release of claimants.''.
    (b) Discharge Review Board.--Section 1553 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f) Each board established under this section shall make 
available to the public each calender quarter, on an Internet website 
of the military department concerned or the Department of Homeland 
Security, as applicable, that is available to the public the following:
        ``(1) The number of motions or requests for review considered 
    by such board during the calendar quarter preceding the calender 
    quarter in which such information is made available, including 
    cases in which a mental health condition of the former member, 
    including post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury, 
    is alleged to have contributed, whether in whole or part, to the 
    original characterization of the discharge or dismissal of the 
    former member.
        ``(2) The number of claims submitted during the calendar 
    quarter preceding the calender quarter in which such information is 
    made available that relate to service by a claimant during a war or 
    contingency operation, catalogued by each war or contingency 
    operation.
        ``(3) The number of discharges or dismissals corrected pursuant 
    to the consideration described in paragraph (1) to upgrade the 
    characterization of discharge or dismissal of former members.''.
    SEC. 534. IMPROVEMENTS TO AUTHORITIES AND PROCEDURES FOR THE 
      CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS.
    (a) Procedures of Boards.--Paragraph (3) of section 1552(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
    ``(B) If a board makes a preliminary determination that a claim 
under this section lacks sufficient information or documents to support 
the claim, the board shall notify the claimant, in writing, indicating 
the specific information or documents necessary to make the claim 
complete and reviewable by the board.
    ``(C) If a claimant is unable to provide military personnel or 
medical records applicable to a claim under this section, the board 
shall make reasonable efforts to obtain the records. A claimant shall 
provide the board with documentary evidence of the efforts of the 
claimant to obtain such records. The board shall inform the claimant of 
the results of the board's efforts, and shall provide the claimant 
copies of any records so obtained upon request of the claimant.
    ``(D) Any request for reconsideration of a determination of a board 
under this section, no matter when filed, shall be reconsidered by a 
board under this section if supported by materials not previously 
presented to or considered by the board in making such 
determination.''.
    (b) Publication of Final Decisions of Boards.--Such section is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) Each final decision of a board under this subsection shall be 
made available to the public in electronic form on a centralized 
Internet website. In any decision so made available to the public there 
shall be redacted all personally identifiable information.''.
    (c) Training of Members of Boards.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, each Secretary concerned shall develop and 
    implement a comprehensive training curriculum for members of boards 
    for the correction of military records under the jurisdiction of 
    such Secretary in the duties of such boards under section 1552 of 
    title 10, United States Code. The curriculum shall address all 
    areas of administrative law applicable to the duties of such 
    boards.
        (2) Uniform curricula.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly ensure that the 
    curricula developed and implemented pursuant to this subsection 
    are, to the extent practicable, uniform.
        (3) Training.--
            (A) In general.--Each member of a board for the correction 
        of military records shall undergo retraining (consistent with 
        the curriculum developed and implemented pursuant to this 
        subsection) regarding the duties of boards for the correction 
        of military records under section 1552 of title 10, United 
        States Code, at least once every five years during the member's 
        tenure on the board.
            (B) Current members.--Each member of a board for the 
        correction of military records as of the date of the 
        implementation of the curriculum required by paragraph (1) (in 
        this paragraph referred to as the ``curriculum implementation 
        date'') shall undergo training described in subparagraph (A) 
        not later than 90 days after the curriculum implementation 
        date.
            (C) New members.--Each individual who becomes a member of a 
        board for the correction of military records after the 
        curriculum implementation date shall undergo training described 
        in subparagraph (A) by not later than 90 days after the date on 
        which such individual becomes a member of the board.
        (4) Reports.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, each Secretary concerned shall submit to 
    Congress a report setting forth the following:
            (A) A description and assessment of the progress made by 
        such Secretary in implementing training requirements for 
        members of boards for the correction of military records under 
        the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
            (B) A detailed description of the training curriculum 
        required of such Secretary by paragraph (1).
            (C) A description and assessment of any impediments to the 
        implementation of training requirements for members of boards 
        for the correction of military records under the jurisdiction 
        of such Secretary.
        (5) Secretary concerned defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``Secretary concerned'' means a ``Secretary concerned'' as that 
    term is used in section 1552 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 535. TREATMENT BY DISCHARGE REVIEW BOARDS OF CLAIMS ASSERTING 
      POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS DISORDER OR TRAUMATIC BRAIN INJURY IN 
      CONNECTION WITH COMBAT OR SEXUAL TRAUMA AS A BASIS FOR REVIEW OF 
      DISCHARGE.
    Section 1553(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) In addition to the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2), 
in the case of a former member described in subparagraph (B), the Board 
shall--
        ``(i) review medical evidence of the Secretary of Veterans 
    Affairs or a civilian health care provider that is presented by the 
    former member; and
        ``(ii) review the case with liberal consideration to the former 
    member that post-traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain 
    injury potentially contributed to the circumstances resulting in 
    the discharge of a lesser characterization.
    ``(B) A former member described in this subparagraph is a former 
member described in paragraph (1) or a former member whose application 
for relief is based in whole or in part on matters relating to post-
traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury as supporting 
rationale, or as justification for priority consideration, whose post-
traumatic stress disorder or traumatic brain injury is related to 
combat or military sexual trauma, as determined by the Secretary 
concerned.''.
    SEC. 536. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REVIEW OF 
      INTEGRITY OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WHISTLEBLOWER PROGRAM.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report setting forth a review of the 
integrity of the Department of Defense whistleblower program.
    (b) Elements.--The review for purposes of the report required by 
subsection (a) shall include the following elements:
        (1) An assessment of the extent to which the Department of 
    Defense whistleblower program meets executive branch policies and 
    goals for whistleblower protections.
        (2) An assessment of the adequacy of procedures to handle and 
    address complaints submitted by employees in the Office of the 
    Inspector General of the Department of Defense to ensure that such 
    employees themselves are able to disclose a suspected violation of 
    law, rule, or regulation without fear of reprisal.
        (3) An assessment of the extent to which there have been 
    violations of standards used in regard to the protection of 
    confidentiality provided to whistleblowers by the Inspector General 
    of the Department of Defense.
        (4) An assessment of the extent to which there have been 
    incidents of retaliatory investigations against whistleblowers 
    within the Office of the Inspector General.
        (5) An assessment of the extent to which the Inspector General 
    of the Department of Defense has thoroughly investigated and 
    substantiated allegations within the past 10 years against civilian 
    officials of the Department of Defense appointed to their positions 
    by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, and whether 
    Congress has been notified of the results of such investigations.
        (6) An assessment of the ability of the Inspector General of 
    the Department of Defense and the Inspectors General of the 
    military departments to access agency information necessary to the 
    execution of their duties, including classified and other sensitive 
    information, and an assessment of the adequacy of security 
    procedures to safeguard such classified or sensitive information 
    when so accessed.

       Subtitle E--Military Justice and Legal Assistance Matters

    SEC. 541. UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Clarification of Authority of Judges of the Court To Administer 
Oaths and Acknowledgments.--Subsection (c) of section 936 of title 10, 
United States Code (article 136 of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Each judge and senior judge of the United States Court of 
Appeals for the Armed Forces shall have the powers relating to oaths, 
affirmations, and acknowledgments provided to justices and judges of 
the United States by section 459 of title 28.''.
    (b) Modification of Term of Judges of the Court to Restore Rotation 
of Judges.--
        (1) Early retirement authorized for one current judge.--If the 
    judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces 
    who is the junior in seniority of the two judges of the court whose 
    terms of office under section 942(b)(2) of title 10, United States 
    Code (article 142(b)(2) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
    expire on July 31, 2021, chooses to retire one year early, that 
    judge--
            (A) may retire from service on the court effective August 
        1, 2020; and
            (B) shall be treated, upon such retirement, for all 
        purposes as having completed a term of service for which the 
        judge was appointed as a judge of the court.
        (2) Staggering of future appointments.--Section 942(b)(2) of 
    title 10, United States Code (article 142(b)(2) of the Uniform Code 
    of Military Justice), is amended--
            (A) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(2)'';
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses 
        (i) and (ii), respectively; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) If at the time of the appointment of a judge the date that is 
otherwise applicable under subparagraph (A) for the expiration of the 
term of service of the judge is the same as the date for the expiration 
of the term of service of a judge already on the court, then the term 
of the judge being appointed shall expire on the first July 31 after 
such date on which no term of service of a judge already on the court 
will expire.''.
        (3) Application of amendments.--The amendments made by 
    paragraph (2) shall apply with respect to appointments to the 
    United States Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces that are made 
    on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Repeal of Requirement Relating to Political Party Status of 
Judges of the Court.--Section 942(b)(3) of title 10, United States Code 
(article 142(b)(3) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended 
by striking ``Not more than three of the judges of the court may be 
appointed from the same political party, and no'' and by inserting 
``No''.
    (d) Modification of Daily Rate of Compensation for Senior Judges 
Performing Judicial Duties With the Court.--Section 942(e)(2) of title 
10, United States Code (article 142(e)(2) of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended by striking ``equal to'' and all that 
follows and inserting ``equal to the difference between--
        ``(A) the daily equivalent of the annual rate of pay provided 
    for a judge of the court; and
        ``(B) the daily equivalent of the annuity of the judge under 
    section 945 of this title (article 145), the applicable provisions 
    of title 5, or any other retirement system for employees of the 
    Federal Government under which the senior judge receives an 
    annuity.''.
    (e) Repeal of Dual Compensation Provision Relating to Judges of the 
Court.--Section 945 of title 10, United States Code (article 145 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``subsection (g)(1)(B)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (f)(1)(B)'';
        (2) by striking subsection (f); and
        (3) by redesignating subsections (g), (h), and (i) as 
    subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively.
    SEC. 542. EFFECTIVE PROSECUTION AND DEFENSE IN COURTS-MARTIAL AND 
      PILOT PROGRAMS ON PROFESSIONAL MILITARY JUSTICE DEVELOPMENT FOR 
      JUDGE ADVOCATES.
    (a) Program for Effective Prosecution and Defense.--The Secretary 
concerned shall carry out a program to ensure that--
        (1) trial counsel and defense counsel detailed to prosecute or 
    defend a court-martial have sufficient experience and knowledge to 
    effectively prosecute or defend the case; and
        (2) a deliberate professional developmental process is in place 
    to ensure effective prosecution and defense in all courts-martial.
    (b) Military Justice Experience Designators or Skill Identifiers.--
The Secretary concerned shall establish and use a system of military 
justice experience designators or skill identifiers for purposes of 
identifying judge advocates with skill and experience in military 
justice proceedings in order to ensure that judge advocates with 
experience and skills identified through such experience designators or 
skill identifiers are assigned to develop less experienced judge 
advocates in the prosecution and defense in courts-martial under a 
program carried out pursuant to subsection (a).
    (c) Pilot Programs on Professional Developmental Process for Judge 
Advocates.--
        (1) Purpose.--The Secretary concerned shall carry out a pilot 
    program to assess the feasibility and advisability of establishing 
    a deliberate professional developmental process for judge advocates 
    under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that leads to judge 
    advocates with military justice expertise serving as military 
    justice practitioners capable of prosecuting and defending complex 
    cases in military courts-martial.
        (2) Additional matters.--A pilot program may also assess such 
    other matters related to professional military justice development 
    for judge advocates as the Secretary concerned considers 
    appropriate.
        (3) Duration.--Each pilot program shall be for a period of five 
    years.
        (4) Report.--Not later than four years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report on the pilot programs conducted under this 
    section. The report shall include the following:
            (A) A description and assessment of each pilot program.
            (B) Such recommendations as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate in light of the pilot programs, including whether 
        any pilot program should be extended or made permanent.
    (d) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 
101(a)(9) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 543. INCLUSION IN ANNUAL REPORTS ON SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION 
      AND RESPONSE EFFORTS OF THE ARMED FORCES OF INFORMATION ON 
      COMPLAINTS OF RETALIATION IN CONNECTION WITH REPORTS OF SEXUAL 
      ASSAULT IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 1631(b) of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(12) Information on each claim of retaliation in connection 
    with a report of sexual assault in the Armed Force made by or 
    against a member of such Armed Force as follows:
            ``(A) A narrative description of each complaint.
            ``(B) The nature of such complaint, including whether the 
        complainant claims professional or social retaliation.
            ``(C) The gender of the complainant.
            ``(D) The gender of the individual claimed to have 
        committed the retaliation.
            ``(E) The nature of the relationship between the 
        complainant and the individual claimed to have committed the 
        retaliation.
            ``(F) The nature of the relationship, if any, between the 
        individual alleged to have committed the sexual assault 
        concerned and the individual claimed to have committed the 
        retaliation.
            ``(G) The official or office that received the complaint.
            ``(H) The organization that investigated or is 
        investigating the complaint.
            ``(I) The current status of the investigation.
            ``(J) If the investigation is complete, a description of 
        the results of the investigation, including whether the results 
        of the investigation were provided to the complainant.
            ``(K) If the investigation determined that retaliation 
        occurred, whether the retaliation was an offense under chapter 
        47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of 
        Military Justice).''.
    SEC. 544. EXTENSION OF THE REQUIREMENT FOR ANNUAL REPORT REGARDING 
      SEXUAL ASSAULTS AND COORDINATION WITH RELEASE OF FAMILY ADVOCACY 
      PROGRAM REPORT.
    Section 1631 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4433; 10 U.S.C. 
1561 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``March 1, 2017'' and 
    inserting ``March 1, 2021''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Coordination of Release Date Between Annual Reports Regarding 
Sexual Assaults and Family Advocacy Report.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall ensure that the reports required under subsection (a) for a given 
year are delivered to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and House of Representatives simultaneously with the Family Advocacy 
Program report for that year regarding child abuse and domestic 
violence, as required by section 574 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.''.
    SEC. 545. METRICS FOR EVALUATING THE EFFORTS OF THE ARMED FORCES TO 
      PREVENT AND RESPOND TO RETALIATION IN CONNECTION WITH REPORTS OF 
      SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Metrics Required.--The Sexual Assault Prevention and Response 
Office of the Department of Defense shall establish and issue to the 
military departments metrics to be used to evaluate the efforts of the 
Armed Forces to prevent and respond to retaliation in connection with 
reports of sexual assault in the Armed Forces.
    (b) Best Practices.--For purposes of enhancing and achieving 
uniformity in the efforts of the Armed Forces to prevent and respond to 
retaliation in connection with reports of sexual assault in the Armed 
Forces, the Sexual Assault Prevention and Response Office shall 
identify and issue to the military departments best practices to be 
used in the prevention of and response to retaliation in connection 
with such reports.
    SEC. 546. TRAINING FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL WHO 
      INVESTIGATE CLAIMS OF RETALIATION.
    (a) Training Regarding Nature and Consequences of Retaliation.--The 
Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the personnel of the Department 
of Defense specified in subsection (b) who investigate claims of 
retaliation receive training on the nature and consequences of 
retaliation, and, in cases involving reports of sexual assault, the 
nature and consequences of sexual assault trauma. The training shall 
include such elements as the Secretary shall specify for purposes of 
this section.
    (b) Covered Personnel.--The personnel of the Department of Defense 
covered by subsection (a) are the following:
        (1) Personnel of military criminal investigation services.
        (2) Personnel of Inspectors General offices.
        (3) Personnel of any command of the Armed Forces who are 
    assignable by the commander of such command to investigate claims 
    of retaliation made by or against members of such command.
    (c) Retaliation Defined.--In this section, the term ``retaliation'' 
has the meaning given the term by the Secretary of Defense in the 
strategy required by section 539 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act of Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 818) or a 
subsequent meaning specified by the Secretary.
    SEC. 547. NOTIFICATION TO COMPLAINANTS OF RESOLUTION OF 
      INVESTIGATIONS INTO RETALIATION.
    (a) Notification Required.--
        (1) Members of the army, navy, air force, and marine corps.--
    Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, upon the 
    conclusion of an investigation by an office, element, or personnel 
    of the Department of Defense or of the Armed Forces of a complaint 
    by a member of the Armed Forces of retaliation, the member shall be 
    informed in writing of the results of the investigation, including 
    whether the complaint was substantiated, unsubstantiated, or 
    dismissed.
        (2) Members of coast guard.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
    shall provide in a similar manner for notification in writing of 
    the results of investigations by offices, elements, or personnel of 
    the Department of Homeland Security or of the Coast Guard of 
    complaints of retaliation made by members of the Coast Guard when 
    it is not operating as a service in the Navy.
    (b) Retaliation Defined.--In this section, the term ``retaliation'' 
has the meaning given the term by the Secretary of Defense in the 
strategy required by section 539 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act of Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 818) or a 
subsequent meaning specified by the Secretary.
    SEC. 548. MODIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT FOR 
      PURPOSES OF INVESTIGATIONS BY COMMANDING OFFICERS OF COMPLAINTS 
      OF HARASSMENT.
    (a) In General.--Section 1561(e) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``(constituting a form of sex discrimination)''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the work 
        environment'' and inserting ``the environment''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``in the workplace''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to complaints described in section 1561 of title 10, 
United States Code, that are first received by a commanding officer or 
officer in charge on or after that date.
    SEC. 549. IMPROVED DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PREVENTION OF AND RESPONSE 
      TO HAZING IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Anti-Hazing Database.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide 
for the establishment and use of a comprehensive and consistent data-
collection system for the collection of reports, including anonymous 
reports, of incidents of hazing involving a member of the Armed Forces. 
The Secretary shall issue department-wide guidance regarding the 
availability and use of the database, including information on 
protected classes, such as race and religion, who are often the victims 
of hazing.
    (b) Improved Training.--Each Secretary of a military department, in 
consultation with the Chief of Staff of each Armed Force under the 
jurisdiction of such Secretary, shall seek to improve training to 
assist members of the Armed Forces better recognize, prevent, and 
respond to hazing at all command levels.
    (c) Annual Reports on Hazing.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than January 31 of each year 
    through January 31, 2021, each Secretary of a military department, 
    in consultation with the Chief of Staff of each Armed Force under 
    the jurisdiction of such Secretary, shall submit to the Committees 
    on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
    report containing a description of efforts during the previous 
    year--
            (A) to prevent and to respond to incidents of hazing 
        involving members of the Armed Forces;
            (B) to track and encourage reporting, including reporting 
        anonymously, incidents of hazing in the Armed Force; and
            (C) to ensure the consistent implementation of anti-hazing 
        policies.
        (2) Additional elements.--Each report required by this 
    subsection also shall address the same elements originally 
    addressed in the anti-hazing reports required by section 534 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
    112-239; 126 Stat. 1726).

   Subtitle F--National Commission on Military, National, and Public 
                                Service

    SEC. 551. PURPOSE, SCOPE, AND DEFINITIONS.
    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this subtitle is to establish the 
National Commission on Military, National, and Public Service to--
        (1) conduct a review of the military selective service process 
    (commonly referred to as ``the draft''); and
        (2) consider methods to increase participation in military, 
    national, and public service in order to address national security 
    and other public service needs of the Nation.
    (b) Scope of Review.--In order to provide the fullest understanding 
of the matters required under the review under subsection (a), the 
Commission shall consider--
        (1) the need for a military selective service process, 
    including the continuing need for a mechanism to draft large 
    numbers of replacement combat troops;
        (2) means by which to foster a greater attitude and ethos of 
    service among United States youth, including an increased 
    propensity for military service;
        (3) the feasibility and advisability of modifying the military 
    selective service process in order to obtain for military, 
    national, and public service individuals with skills (such as 
    medical, dental, and nursing skills, language skills, cyber skills, 
    and science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) 
    skills) for which the Nation has a critical need, without regard to 
    age or sex; and
        (4) the feasibility and advisability of including in the 
    military selective service process, as so modified, an eligibility 
    or entitlement for the receipt of one or more Federal benefits 
    (such as educational benefits, subsidized or secured student loans, 
    grants or hiring preferences) specified by the Commission for 
    purposes of the review.
    (c) Definitions.--In this subtitle:
        (1) The term ``military service'' means active service (as that 
    term is defined in subsection (d)(3) of section 101 of title 10, 
    United States Code) in one of the uniformed services (as that term 
    is defined in subsection (a)(5) of such section).
        (2) The term ``national service'' means civilian employment in 
    Federal or State Government in a field in which the Nation and the 
    public have critical needs.
        (3) The term ``public service'' means civilian employment in 
    any non-governmental capacity, including with private for-profit 
    organizations and non-profit organizations (including with 
    appropriate faith-based organizations), that pursues and enhances 
    the common good and meets the needs of communities, the States, or 
    the Nation in sectors related to security, health, care for the 
    elderly, and other areas considered appropriate by the Commission 
    for purposes of this subtitle.
    SEC. 552. PRELIMINARY REPORT ON PURPOSE AND UTILITY OF REGISTRATION 
      SYSTEM UNDER MILITARY SELECTIVE SERVICE ACT.
    (a) Report Required.--To assist the Commission in carrying out its 
duties under this subtitle, the Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) submit, not later than July 1, 2017, to the Committees on 
    Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives and 
    to the Commission a report on the current and future need for a 
    centralized registration system under the Military Selective 
    Service Act (50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.); and
        (2) provide a briefing on the results of the report.
    (b) Elements of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) A detailed analysis of the current benefits derived, both 
    directly and indirectly, from the Military Selective Service 
    System, including--
            (A) the extent to which mandatory registration benefits 
        military recruiting;
            (B) the extent to which a national registration capability 
        serves as a deterrent to potential enemies of the United 
        States; and
            (C) the extent to which expanding registration to include 
        women would impact these benefits.
        (2) An analysis of the functions currently performed by the 
    Selective Service System that would be assumed by the Department of 
    Defense in the absence of a national registration capability.
        (3) An analysis of the systems, manpower, and facilities that 
    would be needed by the Department to physically mobilize inductees 
    in the absence of the Selective Service System.
        (4) An analysis of the feasibility and utility of eliminating 
    the current focus on mass mobilization of primarily combat troops 
    in favor of a system that focuses on mobilization of all military 
    occupational specialties, and the extent to which such a change 
    would impact the need for both male and female inductees.
        (5) A detailed analysis of the Department's personnel needs in 
    the event of an emergency requiring mass mobilization, including--
            (A) a detailed timeline, along with the factors considered 
        in arriving at this timeline, of when the Department would 
        require--
                (i) the first inductees to report for service;
                (ii) the first 100,000 inductees to report for service; 
            and
                (iii) the first medical personnel to report for 
            service; and
            (B) an analysis of any additional critical skills that 
        would be needed in the event of a national emergency, and a 
        timeline for when the Department would require the first 
        inductees to report for service.
        (6) A list of the assumptions used by the Department when 
    conducting its analysis in preparing the report.
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than December 1, 2017, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives and to the Commission a review of the procedures used 
by the Department of Defense in evaluating selective service 
requirements.
    SEC. 553. NATIONAL COMMISSION ON MILITARY, NATIONAL, AND PUBLIC 
      SERVICE.
    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the executive branch an 
independent commission to be known as the National Commission on 
Military, National, and Public Service (in this subtitle referred to as 
the ``Commission''). The Commission shall be considered an independent 
establishment of the Federal Government as defined by section 104 of 
title 5, United States Code, and a temporary organization under section 
3161 of such title.
    (b) Membership.--
        (1) Number and appointment.--The Commission shall be composed 
    of 11 members appointed as follows:
            (A) The President shall appoint three members.
            (B) The Majority Leader of the Senate shall appoint one 
        member.
            (C) The Minority Leader of the Senate shall appoint one 
        member.
            (D) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall 
        appoint one member.
            (E) The Minority Leader of the House of Representatives 
        shall appoint one member.
            (F) The Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate shall appoint one member.
            (G) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the Senate shall appoint one member.
            (H) The Chairman of the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        House of Representatives shall appoint one member.
            (I) The ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
        Services of the House of Representatives shall appoint one 
        member.
        (2) Deadline for appointment.--Members shall be appointed to 
    the Commission under paragraph (1) not later than 90 days after the 
    Commission establishment date.
        (3) Effect of lack of appointment by appointment date.--If one 
    or more appointments under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) is not 
    made by the appointment date specified in paragraph (2), the 
    authority to make such appointment or appointments shall expire, 
    and the number of members of the Commission shall be reduced by the 
    number equal to the number of appointments so not made. If an 
    appointment under subparagraph (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), 
    or (I) of paragraph (1) is not made by the appointment date 
    specified in paragraph (2), the authority to make an appointment 
    under such subparagraph shall expire, and the number of members of 
    the Commission shall be reduced by the number equal to the number 
    otherwise appointable under such subparagraph.
    (c) Chair and Vice Chair.--The Commission shall elect a Chair and 
Vice Chair from among its members.
    (d) Terms.--Members shall be appointed for the life of the 
Commission. A vacancy in the Commission shall not affect its powers, 
and shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was 
made.
    (e) Status as Federal Employees.--Notwithstanding the requirements 
of section 2105 of title 5, United States Code, including the required 
supervision under subsection (a)(3) of such section, the members of the 
Commission shall be deemed to be Federal employees.
    (f) Pay for Members of the Commission.--
        (1) In general.--Each member, other than the Chair, of the 
    Commission shall be paid at a rate equal to the daily equivalent of 
    the annual rate of basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive 
    Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code, for 
    each day (including travel time) during which the member is engaged 
    in the actual performance of duties vested in the Commission.
        (2) Chair.--The Chair of the Commission shall be paid at a rate 
    equal to the daily equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
    payable for level III of the Executive Schedule under section 5314, 
    of title 5, United States Code, for each day (including travel 
    time) during which the member is engaged in the actual performance 
    of duties vested in the Commission.
    (g) Use of Government Information.--The Commission may secure 
directly from any department or agency of the Federal Government such 
information as the Commission considers necessary to carry out its 
duties. Upon such request of the chair of the Commission, the head of 
such department or agency shall furnish such information to the 
Commission.
    (h) Postal Services.--The Commission may use the United States 
mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as departments 
and agencies of the United States.
    (i) Authority To Accept Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and 
dispose of gifts or donations of services, goods, and property from 
non-Federal entities for the purposes of aiding and facilitating the 
work of the Commission. The authority in this subsection does not 
extend to gifts of money.
    (j) Personal Services.--
        (1) Authority to procure.--The Commission may--
            (A) procure the services of experts or consultants (or of 
        organizations of experts or consultants) in accordance with the 
        provisions of section 3109 of title 5, United States Code; and
            (B) pay in connection with such services travel expenses of 
        individuals, including transportation and per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence, while such individuals are traveling from their 
        homes or places of business to duty stations.
        (2) Limitation.--The total number of experts or consultants 
    procured pursuant to paragraph (1) may not exceed five experts or 
    consultants.
        (3) Maximum daily pay rates.--The daily rate paid an expert or 
    consultant procured pursuant to paragraph (1) may not exceed the 
    daily rate paid a person occupying a position at level IV of the 
    Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States 
    Code.
    (k) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of Defense, up to 
$15,000,000 shall be made available to the Commission to carry out its 
duties under this subtitle. Funds made available to the Commission 
under the preceding sentence shall remain available until expended.
    SEC. 554. COMMISSION HEARINGS AND MEETINGS.
    (a) In General.--The Commission shall conduct hearings on the 
recommendations it is taking under consideration. Any such hearing, 
except a hearing in which classified information is to be considered, 
shall be open to the public. Any hearing open to the public shall be 
announced on a Federal website at least 14 days in advance. For all 
hearings open to the public, the Commission shall release an agenda and 
a listing of materials relevant to the topics to be discussed. The 
Commission is authorized and encouraged to hold hearings and meetings 
in various locations throughout the country to provide maximum 
opportunity for public comment and participation in the Commission's 
execution of its duties.
    (b) Meetings.--
        (1) Initial meeting.--The Commission shall hold its initial 
    meeting not later than 30 days after the date as of which all 
    members have been appointed.
        (2) Subsequent meetings.--After its initial meeting, the 
    Commission shall meet upon the call of the chair or a majority of 
    its members.
        (3) Public meetings.--Each meeting of the Commission shall be 
    held in public unless any member objects or classified information 
    is to be considered.
    (c) Quorum.--Six members of the Commission shall constitute a 
quorum, but a lesser number may hold hearings or meetings.
    (d) Public Comments.--
        (1) Solicitation.--The Commission shall seek written comments 
    from the general public and interested parties on matters of the 
    Commission's review under this subtitle. Comments shall be 
    requested through a solicitation in the Federal Register and 
    announcement on the Internet website of the Commission.
        (2) Period for submittal.--The period for the submittal of 
    comments pursuant to the solicitation under paragraph (1) shall end 
    not earlier than 30 days after the date of the solicitation and 
    shall end on or before the date on which recommendations are 
    transmitted to the Commission under section 555(d).
        (3) Use by commission.--The Commission shall consider the 
    comments submitted under this subsection when developing its 
    recommendations.
    (e) Space for Use of Commission.--Not later than 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General 
Services, in consultation with the Secretary, shall identify and make 
available suitable excess space within the Federal space inventory to 
house the operations of the Commission. If the Administrator is not 
able to make such suitable excess space available within such 90-day 
period, the Commission may lease space to the extent the funds are 
available.
    (f) Contracting Authority.--The Commission may acquire 
administrative supplies and equipment for Commission use to the extent 
funds are available.
    SEC. 555. PRINCIPLES AND PROCEDURE FOR COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS.
    (a) Context of Commission Review.--The Commission shall--
        (1) conduct a review of the military selective service process; 
    and
        (2) consider methods to increase participation in military, 
    national, and public service opportunities to address national 
    security and other public service needs of the Nation.
    (b) Development of Commission Recommendations.--The Commission 
shall develop recommendations on the matters subject to its review 
under subsection (a) that are consistent with the principles 
established by the President under subsection (c).
    (c) Presidential Principles.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than three months after the 
    Commission establishment date, the President shall establish and 
    transmit to the Commission and Congress principles for reform of 
    the military selective service process, including means by which to 
    best acquire for the Nation skills necessary to meet the military, 
    national, and public service requirements of the Nation in 
    connection with that process.
        (2) Elements.--The principles required under this subsection 
    shall address the following:
            (A) Whether, in light of the current and predicted global 
        security environment and the changing nature of warfare, there 
        continues to be a continuous or potential need for a military 
        selective service process designed to produce large numbers of 
        combat members of the Armed Forces, and if so, whether such a 
        system should include mandatory registration by all citizens 
        and residents, regardless of sex.
            (B) The need, and how best to meet the need, of the Nation, 
        the military, the Federal civilian sector, and the private 
        sector (including the non-profit sector) for individuals 
        possessing critical skills and abilities, and how best to 
        employ individuals possessing those skills and abilities for 
        military, national, or public service.
            (C) How to foster within the Nation, particularly among 
        United States youth, an increased sense of service and civic 
        responsibility in order to enhance the acquisition by the 
        Nation of critically needed skills through education and 
        training, and how best to acquire those skills for military, 
        national, or public service.
            (D) How to increase a propensity among United States youth 
        for service in the military, or alternatively in national or 
        public service, including how to increase the pool of qualified 
        applicants for military service.
            (E) The need in Government, including the military, and in 
        the civilian sector to increase interest, education, and 
        employment in certain critical fields, including science, 
        technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM), national 
        security, cyber, linguistics and foreign language, education, 
        health care, and the medical professions.
            (F) How military, national, and public service may be 
        incentivized, including through educational benefits, grants, 
        federally-insured loans, Federal or State hiring preferences, 
        or other mechanisms that the President considers appropriate.
            (G) Any other matters the President considers appropriate 
        for purposes of this subtitle.
    (d) Cabinet Recommendations.--Not later than seven months after the 
Commission establishment date, the Secretary of Defense, the Attorney 
General, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Labor, 
and such other Government officials, and such experts, as the President 
shall designate for purposes of this subsection shall jointly transmit 
to the Commission and Congress recommendations for the reform of the 
military selective service process and military, national, and public 
service in connection with that process.
    (e) Commission Report and Recommendations.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than 30 months after the Commission 
    establishment date, the Commission shall transmit to the President 
    and Congress a report containing the findings and conclusions of 
    the Commission, together with the recommendations of the Commission 
    regarding the matters reviewed by the Commission pursuant to this 
    subtitle. The Commission shall include in the report legislative 
    language and recommendations for administrative action to implement 
    the recommendations of the Commission. The findings and conclusions 
    in the report shall be based on the review and analysis by the 
    Commission of the recommendations made under subsection (d).
        (2) Requirement for approval.--The recommendations of the 
    Commission must be approved by at least five members of the 
    Commission before the recommendations may be transmitted to the 
    President and Congress under paragraph (1).
        (3) Public availability.--The Commission shall publish a copy 
    of the report required by paragraph (1) on an Internet website 
    available to the public on the same date on which it transmits that 
    report to the President and Congress under that paragraph.
    (f) Judicial Review Precluded.--Actions under this section of the 
President, the officials specified or designated under subsection (d), 
and the Commission shall not be subject to judicial review.
    SEC. 556. EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR AND STAFF.
    (a) Executive Director.--The Commission shall appoint and fix the 
rate of basic pay for an Executive Director in accordance with section 
3161 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Staff.--Subject to subsections (c) and (d), the Executive 
Director, with the approval of the Commission, may appoint and fix the 
rate of basic pay for additional personnel as staff of the Commission 
in accordance with section 3161 of title 5, United States Code.
    (c) Limitations on Staff.--
        (1) Number of detailees from executive departments.--Not more 
    than one-third of the personnel employed by or detailed to the 
    Commission may be on detail from the Department of Defense and 
    other executive branch departments.
        (2) Prior duties within executive branch.--A person may not be 
    detailed from the Department of Defense or other executive branch 
    department to the Commission if, in the year before the detail is 
    to begin, that person participated personally and substantially in 
    any matter concerning the preparation of recommendations for the 
    military selective service process and military and public service 
    in connection with that process.
    (d) Limitations on Performance Reviews.--No member of the uniformed 
services, and no officer or employee of the Department of Defense or 
other executive branch department (other than a member of the uniformed 
services or officer or employee who is detailed to the Commission), 
may--
        (1) prepare any report concerning the effectiveness, fitness, 
    or efficiency of the performance of the staff of the Commission or 
    any person detailed to that staff;
        (2) review the preparation of such a report (other than for 
    administrative accuracy); or
        (3) approve or disapprove such a report.
    SEC. 557. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.
    Except as otherwise provided in this subtitle, the Commission shall 
terminate not later than 36 months after the Commission establishment 
date.

   Subtitle G--Member Education, Training, Resilience, and Transition

    SEC. 561. MODIFICATION OF PROGRAM TO ASSIST MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES IN OBTAINING PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS.
    (a) Scope of Program.--Section 2015(a)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``incident to the performance of 
their military duties''.
    (b) Quality Assurance of Certification Programs and Standards.--
Section 2015(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``is accredited by an 
    accreditation body that'' and all that follows and inserting 
    ``meets one of the requirements specified in paragraph (2).''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) The requirements for a credentialing program specified in 
    this paragraph are that the credentialing program--
            ``(A) is accredited by a nationally-recognized, third-party 
        personnel certification program accreditor;
            ``(B)(i) is sought or accepted by employers within the 
        industry or sector involved as a recognized, preferred, or 
        required credential for recruitment, screening, hiring, 
        retention, or advancement purposes; and
            ``(ii) where appropriate, is endorsed by a nationally-
        recognized trade association or organization representing a 
        significant part of the industry or sector;
            ``(C) grants licenses that are recognized by the Federal 
        Government or a State government; or
            ``(D) meets credential standards of a Federal agency.''.
    SEC. 562. INCLUSION OF ALCOHOL, PRESCRIPTION DRUG, OPIOID, AND 
      OTHER SUBSTANCE ABUSE COUNSELING AS PART OF REQUIRED 
      PRESEPARATION COUNSELING.
    Section 1142(b)(11) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting before the period the following: ``and information concerning 
the availability of treatment options and resources to address 
substance abuse, including alcohol, prescription drug, and opioid 
abuse''.
    SEC. 563. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION IN TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM 
      REGARDING EFFECT OF RECEIPT OF BOTH VETERAN DISABILITY 
      COMPENSATION AND VOLUNTARY SEPARATION PAY.
    Section 1144(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(10) Provide information regarding the required deduction, 
    pursuant to subsection (h) of section 1175a of this title, from 
    disability compensation paid by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
    of amounts equal to any voluntary separation pay received by the 
    member under such section.''.
    SEC. 564. TRAINING UNDER TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM ON CAREER 
      AND EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES ASSOCIATED WITH TRANSPORTATION 
      SECURITY CARDS.
    (a) In General.--Section 1144(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by section 563, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(11) Acting through the Secretary of the department in which 
    the Coast Guard is operating, provide information on career and 
    employment opportunities available to members with transportation 
    security cards issued under section 70105 of title 46.''.
    (b) Deadline for Implementation.--The program carried out under 
section 1144 of title 10, United States Code, shall satisfy the 
requirements of subsection (b)(11) of such section (as added by 
subsection (a) of this section) by not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 565. EXTENSION OF SUICIDE PREVENTION AND RESILIENCE PROGRAM.
    Section 10219(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``October 1, 2017'' and inserting ``October 1, 2018''.
    SEC. 566. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION IN ADVANCE OF APPOINTMENTS TO 
      SERVICE ACADEMIES.
    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4342(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended in the matter after paragraph (10) by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``When a nominee of a 
Senator, Representative, or Delegate is selected for appointment as a 
cadet, the Senator, Representative, or Delegate shall be notified at 
least 48 hours before the official notification or announcement of the 
appointment is made.''.
    (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 6954(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended in the matter after paragraph (10) by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``When a nominee of a 
Senator, Representative, or Delegate is selected for appointment as a 
midshipman, the Senator, Representative, or Delegate shall be notified 
at least 48 hours before the official notification or announcement of 
the appointment is made.''.
    (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9342(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended in the matter after paragraph (10) by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``When a nominee of a 
Senator, Representative, or Delegate is selected for appointment as a 
cadet, the Senator, Representative, or Delegate shall be notified at 
least 48 hours before the official notification or announcement of the 
appointment is made.''.
    (d) United States Merchant Marine Academy.--Section 51302 of title 
46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Congressional Notification in Advance of Appointments.--When 
a nominee of a Senator, Representative, or Delegate is selected for 
appointment as a cadet, the Senator, Representative, or Delegate shall 
be notified at least 48 hours before the official notification or 
announcement of the appointment is made.''.
    (e) Application of Amendments.--The amendments made by this section 
shall apply with respect to the appointment of cadets and midshipmen to 
the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, 
the United States Air Force Academy, and the United States Merchant 
Marine Academy for classes entering these service academies after 
January 1, 2018.
    SEC. 567. REPORT AND GUIDANCE ON JOB TRAINING, EMPLOYMENT SKILLS 
      TRAINING, APPRENTICESHIPS, AND INTERNSHIPS AND SKILLBRIDGE 
      INITIATIVES FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO ARE BEING 
      SEPARATED.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
Readiness shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and the House of Representatives, and make available to the 
public, a report evaluating the success of the Job Training, Employment 
Skills Training, Apprenticeships, and Internships (known as JTEST-AI) 
and SkillBridge initiatives, under which civilian businesses and 
companies make available to members of the Armed Forces who are being 
separated from the Armed Forces training or internship opportunities 
that offer a high probability of employment for the members after their 
separation.
    (b) Elements.--In preparing the report required by subsection (a), 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness shall use 
the effectiveness metrics described in Enclosure 5 of Department of 
Defense Instruction No. 1322.29. The report shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the successes of the Job Training, 
    Employment Skills Training, Apprenticeships, and Internships and 
    SkillBridge initiatives.
        (2) Recommendations by the Under Secretary on ways in which the 
    administration of the initiatives could be improved.
        (3) Recommendations by civilian companies participating in the 
    initiatives on ways in which the administration of the initiatives 
    could be improved.
    SEC. 568. MILITARY-TO-MARINER TRANSITION.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
the department in which the Coast Guard is operating shall jointly 
report to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
and Transportation of the Senate on steps the Departments of Defense 
and Homeland Security have taken or intend to take--
        (1) to maximize the extent to which United States Armed Forces 
    service, training, and qualifications are creditable toward meeting 
    the laws and regulations governing United States merchant mariner 
    license, certification, and document laws and the International 
    Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and Watchkeeping 
    for Seafarers, 1978, including steps to enhance interdepartmental 
    coordination; and
        (2) to promote better awareness among Armed Forces personnel 
    who serve in vessel operating positions of the requirements for 
    postservice use of Armed Forces training, education, and practical 
    experience in satisfaction of requirements for merchant mariner 
    credentials under section 11.213 of title 46, Code of Federal 
    Regulations, and the need to document such service in a manner 
    suitable for post-service use.
    (b) List of Training Programs.--The report under subsection (a) 
shall include a list of Army, Navy, and Coast Guard training programs 
open to Army, Navy, and Coast Guard vessel operators, respectively, 
that shows--
        (1) which programs have been approved for credit toward 
    merchant mariner credentials;
        (2) which programs are under review for such approval;
        (3) which programs are not relevant to the training needed for 
    merchant mariner credentials; and
        (4) which programs could become eligible for credit toward 
    merchant mariner credentials with minor changes.

Subtitle H--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

    SEC. 571. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
      AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2017 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in division D, $30,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (b) Impact Aid for Children With Severe Disabilities.--Of the 
amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 by section 
301 and available for operation and maintenance for Defense-wide 
activities as specified in the funding table in section 4301, 
$5,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of the 
Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 
(as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 
U.S.C. 7703a).
    (c) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
8013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).
    SEC. 572. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO THE 
      TRANSITION AND SUPPORT OF MILITARY DEPENDENT STUDENTS TO LOCAL 
      EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES.
    (a) Extension.--Section 574(c)(3) of the John Warner National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (20 U.S.C. 7703b note) 
is amended by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2017''.
    (b) Information To Be Included With Future Requests for 
Extension.--The budget justification materials that accompany any 
budget of the President for a fiscal year after fiscal year 2017 (as 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code) that includes a request for the extension of section 
574(c) of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2007 shall include the following:
        (1) A full accounting of the expenditure of funds pursuant to 
    such section 574(c) during the last fiscal year ending before the 
    date of the submittal of the budget.
        (2) An assessment of the impact of the expenditure of such 
    funds on the quality of opportunities for elementary and secondary 
    education made available for military dependent students.
    SEC. 573. ANNUAL NOTICE TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES REGARDING 
      CHILD CUSTODY PROTECTIONS GUARANTEED BY THE SERVICEMEMBERS CIVIL 
      RELIEF ACT.
    The Secretaries of each of the military departments shall ensure 
that each member of the Armed Forces with dependents receives annually, 
and prior to each deployment, notice of the child custody protections 
afforded to members of the Armed Forces under the Servicemembers Civil 
Relief Act (50 U.S.C. 3901 et seq.).
    SEC. 574. REQUIREMENT FOR ANNUAL FAMILY ADVOCACY PROGRAM REPORT 
      REGARDING CHILD ABUSE AND DOMESTIC VIOLENCE.
    (a) Annual Report on Child Abuse and Domestic Violence.--Not later 
than April 30, 2017, and annually thereafter through April 30, 2021, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the 
child abuse and domestic abuse incident data from the Department of 
Defense Family Advocacy Program central registry of child abuse and 
domestic abuse incidents for the preceding calendar year.
    (b) Contents.--The report shall contain each of the following:
        (1) The number of incidents reported during the year covered by 
    the report involving--
            (A) spouse physical or sexual abuse;
            (B) intimate partner physical or sexual abuse;
            (C) child physical or sexual abuse; and
            (D) child or domestic abuse resulting in a fatality.
        (2) An analysis of the number of such incidents that met the 
    criteria for substantiation.
        (3) An analysis of--
            (A) the types of abuse reported;
            (B) for cases involving children as the reported victims of 
        the abuse, the ages of the abused children; and
            (C) other relevant characteristics of the reported victims.
        (4) An analysis of the military status, sex, and pay grade of 
    the alleged perpetrator of the child or domestic abuse.
        (5) An analysis of the effectiveness of the Family Advocacy 
    Program.
    (c) Coordination of Release Date Between Annual Reports Regarding 
Sexual Assaults and Family Advocacy Program Report.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that the sexual assault reports required to be 
submitted under section 1631(d) of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 
1561 note) for a year are delivered to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate simultaneously with the 
report for that year required under this section.
    SEC. 575. REPORTING ON ALLEGATIONS OF CHILD ABUSE IN MILITARY 
      FAMILIES AND HOMES.
    (a) Reports to Family Advocacy Program Offices.--
        (1) In general.--The following information shall be reported 
    immediately to the Family Advocacy Program office at the military 
    installation to which the member of the Armed Forces concerned is 
    assigned:
            (A) Credible information (which may include a reasonable 
        belief), obtained by any individual within the chain of command 
        of the member, that a child in the family or home of the member 
        has suffered an incident of child abuse.
            (B) Information, learned by a member of the Armed Forces 
        engaged in a profession or activity described in section 226(b) 
        of the Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13031(b)) 
        for members of the Armed Forces and their dependents, that 
        gives reason to suspect that a child in the family or home of 
        the member has suffered an incident of child abuse.
        (2) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security (with respect to the Coast Guard when it is not 
    operating as a service in the Navy) shall jointly prescribe 
    regulations to carry out this subsection.
        (3) Child abuse defined.--In this subsection, the term ``child 
    abuse'' has the meaning given that term in section 226(c) of the 
    Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13031(c)).
    (b) Reports to State Child Welfare Services.--Section 226 of the 
Victims of Child Abuse Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 13031) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting `` and to the agency or 
    agencies provided for in subsection (e), if applicable'' before the 
    period;
        (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) 
    and (g), respectively; and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e) Reporters and Recipient of Report Involving Children and 
Homes of Members of the Armed Forces.--
        ``(1) Recipients of reports.--In the case of an incident 
    described in subsection (a) involving a child in the family or home 
    of member of the Armed Forces (regardless of whether the incident 
    occurred on or off a military installation), the report required by 
    subsection (a) shall be made to the appropriate child welfare 
    services agency or agencies of the State in which the child 
    resides. The Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security (with respect to the Coast Guard 
    when it is not operating as a service in the Navy) shall jointly, 
    in consultation with the chief executive officers of the States, 
    designate the child welfare service agencies of the States that are 
    appropriate recipients of reports pursuant to this subsection. Any 
    report on an incident pursuant to this subsection is in addition to 
    any other report on the incident pursuant to this section.
        ``(2) Makers of reports.--For purposes of the making of reports 
    under this section pursuant to this subsection, the persons engaged 
    in professions and activities described in subsection (b) shall 
    include members of the Armed Forces who are engaged in such 
    professions and activities for members of the Armed Forces and 
    their dependents.''.
    SEC. 576. REPEAL OF ADVISORY COUNCIL ON DEPENDENTS' EDUCATION.
    Section 1411 of the Defense Dependents' Education Act of 1978 (20 
U.S.C. 929) is repealed.
    SEC. 577. SUPPORT FOR PROGRAMS PROVIDING CAMP EXPERIENCE FOR 
      CHILDREN OF MILITARY FAMILIES.
    (a) Authority to Provide Support.--The Secretary of Defense may 
provide financial or non-monetary support to qualified nonprofit 
organizations in order to assist such organizations in carrying out 
programs to support the attendance at a camp, or camp-like setting, of 
children of military families who have experienced the death of a 
family member or other loved one or who have another family member 
living with a substance use disorder or post-traumatic stress disorder.
    (b) Application for Support.--
        (1) In general.--Each organization seeking support pursuant to 
    subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense an 
    application therefor containing such information as the Secretary 
    shall specify for purposes of this section.
        (2) Contents.--Each application submitted under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) A description of the program for which support is being 
        sought, including the location of the setting or settings under 
        the program, the duration of such setting or settings, any 
        local partners participating in or contributing to the program, 
        and the ratio of counselors, trained volunteers, or both to 
        children at such setting or settings.
            (B) An estimate of the number of children of military 
        families to be supported using the support sought.
            (C) A description of the type of activities that will be 
        conducted using the support sought, including the manner in 
        which activities are particularly supportive to children of 
        military families described in subsection (a).
            (D) A description of the outreach conducted or to be 
        conducted by the organization to military families regarding 
        the program.
    (c) Use of Support.--Support provided by the Secretary of Defense 
to an organization pursuant to subsection (a) shall be used by the 
organization to support attendance at a camp, or camp-like setting, of 
children of military families described in subsection (a).
    SEC. 578. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ASSESSMENT AND 
      REPORT ON EXCEPTIONAL FAMILY MEMBER PROGRAMS.
    (a) Assessment and Report Required.--
        (1) Assessment.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall conduct an assessment on the effectiveness of each 
    Exceptional Family Member Program of the Armed Forces.
        (2) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2017, the Comptroller 
    General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the 
    results of the assessment conducted under this subsection.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment and report under subsection (a) shall 
address the following:
        (1) The differences between each Exceptional Family Member 
    Program of the Armed Forces.
        (2) The manner in which Exceptional Family Member Programs are 
    implemented on joint bases and installations.
        (3) The extent to which military family members are screened 
    for potential coverage under an Exceptional Family Member Program 
    and the manner of such screening.
        (4) The degree to which conditions of military family members 
    who qualify for coverage under an Exceptional Family Member Program 
    are taken into account in making assignments of military personnel.
        (5) The types of services provided to address the needs of 
    military family members who qualify for coverage under an 
    Exceptional Family Member Program.
        (6) The extent to which the Department of Defense has 
    implemented specific directives for providing family support and 
    enhanced case management services, such as special needs 
    navigators, to military families with special needs children.
        (7) The extent to which the Department has conducted periodic 
    reviews of best practices in the United States for the provision of 
    medical and educational services to military family members with 
    special needs.
        (8) The necessity in the Department for an advisory panel on 
    community support for military families members with special needs.
        (9) The development and implementation of the uniform policy 
    for the Department regarding families with special needs required 
    by section 1781c(e) of title 10, United States Code.
        (10) The implementation by each Armed Force of the 
    recommendations in the Government Accountability Report entitled 
    ``Military Dependent Students, Better Oversight Needed to Improve 
    Services for Children with Special Needs'' (GAO-12-680).
    SEC. 579. IMPACT AID AMENDMENTS.
    (a)  Military ``Build to Lease'' Program Housing.--Notwithstanding 
section 5(d) of the Every Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 
Stat. 1806), the amendment made by section 7004(1) of such Act (Public 
Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 2077)--
        (1) for fiscal year 2016--
            (A) shall be applied as if amending section 8003(a)(5)(A) 
        of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as in 
        effect on the day before the date of enactment of the Every 
        Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 1802); and
            (B) shall be applicable with respect to appropriations for 
        use under title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
        Act of 1965 (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 1802); and
        (2) for fiscal year 2017 and each succeeding fiscal year, shall 
    be in effect with respect to appropriations for use under title VII 
    of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended 
    by the Every Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 
    1802).
    (b) Eligibility for Heavily Impacted Local Educational Agencies.--
        (1) Amendment.--Subclause (I) of section 7003(b)(2)(B)(i) of 
    the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
    7703(b)(2)(B)(i)(I)) is amended to read as follows:

                    ``(I) is a local educational agency--

                        ``(aa) whose boundaries are the same as a 
                    Federal military installation; or
                        ``(bb)(AA) whose boundaries are the same as an 
                    island property designated by the Secretary of the 
                    Interior to be property that is held in trust by 
                    the Federal Government; and
                        ``(BB) that has no taxing authority;''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect with respect to appropriations for use under title VII 
    of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended 
    by the Every Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 
    1802), beginning with fiscal year 2017 and as if enacted as part of 
    title VII of the Every Student Succeeds Act.
    (c) Special Rule Regarding the Per-Pupil Expenditure Requirement.--
        (1) References.--Except as otherwise expressly provided, any 
    reference in this subsection to a section or other provision of 
    title VII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
    shall be considered to be a reference to the section or other 
    provision of such title VII as amended by the Every Student 
    Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 1802).
        (2) In general.--Notwithstanding section 5(d) of the Every 
    Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 1806) or section 
    7003(b)(2) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
    (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(2)), with respect to any application submitted 
    under section 7005 of such Act (20 U.S.C. 7705) for eligibility 
    consideration under subclause (II) or (V) of section 
    7003(b)(2)(B)(i) of such Act for fiscal year 2017, 2018, or 2019, 
    the Secretary of Education shall determine that a local educational 
    agency meets the per-pupil expenditure requirement for purposes of 
    such subclause (II) or (V), as applicable, only if--
            (A) in the case of a local educational agency that received 
        a basic support payment for fiscal year 2001 under section 
        8003(b)(2)(B) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(2)(B)) (as such section was in effect 
        for such fiscal year), the agency, for the year for which the 
        application is submitted, has a per-pupil expenditure that is 
        less than the average per-pupil expenditure of the State in 
        which the agency is located or the average per-pupil 
        expenditure of all States (whichever average per-pupil 
        expenditure is greater), except that a local educational agency 
        with a total student enrollment of less than 350 students shall 
        be deemed to have satisfied such per-pupil expenditure 
        requirement; or
            (B) in the case of a local educational agency that did not 
        receive a basic support payment for fiscal year 2015 under such 
        section 8003(b)(2)(B), as so in effect, the agency, for the 
        year for which the application is submitted--
                (i) has a total student enrollment of 350 or more 
            students and a per-pupil expenditure that is less than the 
            average per-pupil expenditure of the State in which the 
            agency is located; or
                (ii) has a total student enrollment of less than 350 
            students and a per-pupil expenditure that is less than the 
            average per-pupil expenditure of a comparable local 
            educational agency or 3 comparable local educational 
            agencies (whichever average per-pupil expenditure is 
            greater), in the State in which the agency is located.
    (d) Payments for Eligible Federally Connected Children.--
        (1) Amendments.--Section 7003(b)(2) of the Elementary and 
    Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(2)), as amended 
    by subsection (b) and sections 7001 and 7004 of the Every Student 
    Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 2074, 2077), is further 
    amended--
            (A) in subclause (IV) of subparagraph (B)(i)--
                (i) in the matter preceding item (aa), by inserting 
            ``received a payment for fiscal year 2015 under section 
            8003(b)(2)(E) (as such section was in effect for such 
            fiscal year) and'' before ``has'';
                (ii) in item (aa), by striking ``50'' and inserting 
            ``35''; and
                (iii) by striking item (bb) and inserting the 
            following:
                        ``(bb)(AA) not less than 3,500 of such children 
                    are children described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) 
                    of subsection (a)(1); or
                        ``(BB) not less than 7,000 of such children are 
                    children described in subparagraph (D) of 
                    subsection (a)(1);''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (D)--
                (i) in clause (i)--

                    (I) in subclause (I), by striking ``clause (ii)'' 
                and inserting ``clauses (ii), (iii), and (iv)''; and
                    (II) in subclause (II)--

                        (aa) by inserting ``received a payment for 
                    fiscal year 2015 under section 8003(b)(2)(E) (as 
                    such section was in effect for such fiscal year) 
                    and'' after ``agency that'';
                        (bb) by striking ``50 percent'' and inserting 
                    ``35 percent'';
                        (cc) by striking ``subsection (a)(1) and not 
                    less than 5,000'' and inserting the following: 
                    ``subsection (a)(1) and--
                        ``(aa) not less than 3,500''; and
                        (dd) by striking ``subsection (a)(1).'' and 
                    inserting the following: ``subsection (a)(1); or
                        ``(bb) not less than 7,000 of such children are 
                    children described in subparagraph (D) of 
                    subsection (a)(1).'';
                (ii) in clause (ii), by striking ``shall be 1.35.'' and 
            inserting the following: ``shall be--

                    ``(I) for fiscal year 2016, 1.35;
                    ``(II) for each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018, 
                1.38;
                    ``(III) for fiscal year 2019, 1.40;
                    ``(IV) for fiscal year 2020, 1.42; and
                    ``(V) for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year 
                thereafter, 1.45.''; and

                (iii) by adding at the end the following:
                ``(iii) Factor for children who live off base.--For 
            purposes of calculating the maximum amount described in 
            clause (i), the factor used in determining the weighted 
            student units under subsection (a)(2) with respect to 
            children described in subsection (a)(1)(D) shall be--

                    ``(I) for fiscal year 2016, .20;
                    ``(II) for each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018, .22;
                    ``(III) for each of fiscal years 2019 and 2020, 
                .25; and
                    ``(IV) for fiscal year 2021 and each fiscal year 
                thereafter--

                        ``(aa) .30 with respect to each of the first 
                    7,000 children; and
                        ``(bb) .25 with respect to the number of 
                    children that exceeds 7,000.
                ``(iv) Special rule.--Notwithstanding clauses (ii) and 
            (iii), for fiscal year 2020 or any succeeding fiscal year, 
            if the number of students who are children described in 
            subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection (a)(1) for a local 
            educational agency subject to this subparagraph exceeds 
            7,000 for such year or the number of students who are 
            children described in subsection (a)(1)(D) for such local 
            educational agency exceeds 12,750 for such year, then--

                    ``(I) the factor used, for the fiscal year for 
                which the determination is being made, to determine the 
                weighted student units under subsection (a)(2) with 
                respect to children described in subparagraphs (A) and 
                (B) of subsection (a)(1) shall be 1.40; and
                    ``(II) the factor used, for such fiscal year, to 
                determine the weighted student units under subsection 
                (a)(2) with respect to children described in subsection 
                (a)(1)(D) shall be .20.''.

        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect with respect to appropriations for use under title VII 
    of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 beginning 
    with fiscal year 2017 and as if enacted as part of title VII of the 
    Every Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 2074).
        (3) Special rules.--
            (A) Applicability for fiscal year 2016.--Notwithstanding 
        any other provision of law, in making basic support payments 
        under section 8003(b)(2) of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(2)) for fiscal year 
        2016, the Secretary of Education shall carry out subparagraphs 
        (B)(i) and (E) of such section as if the amendments made to 
        subparagraphs (B)(i)(IV) and (D) of section 7003(b)(2) of such 
        Act (as amended and redesignated by this subsection and the 
        Every Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 1802)) 
        had also been made to the corresponding provisions of section 
        8003(b)(2) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
        1965, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of 
        the Every Student Succeeds Act.
            (B) Loss of eligibility.--For fiscal year 2016 or any 
        succeeding fiscal year, if a local educational agency is 
        eligible for a basic support payment under subclause (IV) of 
        section 7003(b)(2)(B)(i) of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (as amended by this section and the Every 
        Student Succeeds Act (Public Law 114-95; 129 Stat. 1802)) or 
        through a corresponding provision under subparagraph (A), such 
        local educational agency shall be ineligible to apply for a 
        payment for such fiscal year under any other subclause of such 
        section (or, for fiscal year 2016, any other item of section 
        8003(b)(2)(B)(i)(II) of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
        Act of 1965).
            (C) Payment amounts.--If, before the date of enactment of 
        this Act, a local educational agency receives 1 or more 
        payments under section 8003(b)(2)(E) of the Elementary and 
        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7703(b)(2)(E)) for 
        fiscal year 2016, the sum of which is greater than the amount 
        the Secretary of Education determines the local educational 
        agency is entitled to receive under such section in accordance 
        with subparagraph (A)--
                (i) the Secretary shall allow the local educational 
            agency to retain the larger amount; and
                (ii) such local educational agency shall not be 
            eligible to receive any additional payment under such 
            section for fiscal year 2016.

                   Subtitle I--Decorations and Awards

    SEC. 581. POSTHUMOUS ADVANCEMENT OF COLONEL GEORGE E. ``BUD'' DAY, 
      UNITED STATES AIR FORCE, ON THE RETIRED LIST .
    (a) Advancement.--Colonel George E. ``Bud'' Day, United States Air 
Force (retired), is entitled to hold the rank of brigadier general 
while on the retired list of the Air Force.
    (b) Additional Benefits Not To Accrue.--The advancement of George 
E. ``Bud'' Day on the retired list of the Air Force under subsection 
(a) shall not affect the retired pay or other benefits from the United 
States to which George E. ``Bud'' Day would have been entitled based 
upon his military service or affect any benefits to which any other 
person may become entitled based on his military service.
    SEC. 582. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF MEDALS FOR ACTS OF VALOR 
      DURING CERTAIN CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in sections 3744, 6248, and 8744 of title 10, United States Code, or 
any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain 
medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President may 
award a medal specified in subsection (c) to a member or former member 
of the Armed Forces identified as warranting award of that medal 
pursuant to the review of valor award nominations for Operation 
Enduring Freedom, Operation Iraqi Freedom, Operation New Dawn, 
Operation Freedom's Sentinel, and Operation Inherent Resolve that was 
directed by the Secretary of Defense on January 7, 2016.
    (b) Award of Medal of Honor.--If, pursuant to the review referred 
to in subsection (a), the President decides to award to a member or 
former member of the Armed Forces the Medal of Honor, the medal may 
only be awarded after the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a letter identifying the intended recipient of the 
Medal of Honor and the rationale for awarding the Medal of Honor to 
such intended recipient.
    (c) Medals.--The medals covered by subsection (a) are any of the 
following:
        (1) The Medal of Honor under section 3741, 6241, or 8741 of 
    title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The Distinguished-Service Cross under section 3742 of such 
    title.
        (3) The Navy Cross under section 6242 of such title.
        (4) The Air Force Cross under section 8742 of such title.
        (5) The Silver Star under section 3746, 6244, or 8746 of such 
    title.
    (d) Termination.--No medal may be awarded under the authority of 
this section after December 31, 2019.
    SEC. 583. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE MEDAL OF HONOR TO GARY M. 
      ROSE AND JAMES C. MCCLOUGHAN FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING THE VIETNAM 
      WAR.
    (a) Gary M. Rose.--
        (1) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations 
    specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any 
    other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain 
    medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is 
    authorized to award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such 
    title to Gary M. Rose for the acts of valor described in paragraph 
    (2).
        (2) Acts of valor described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
    paragraph (1) are the actions of Gary M. Rose in Laos from 
    September 11 through 14, 1970, during the Vietnam War while a 
    member of the United States Army, Military Assistance Command 
    Vietnam-Studies and Observation Group (MACVSOG).
    (b) James C. McCloughan.--
        (1) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations 
    specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any 
    other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain 
    medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the President is 
    authorized to award the Medal of Honor under section 3741 of such 
    title to James C. McCloughan for the acts of valor described in 
    paragraph (2).
        (2) Acts of valor described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
    paragraph (1) are the actions of James C. McCloughan during combat 
    operations between May 13, 1969, and May 15, 1969, while serving as 
    a Combat Medic with Company C, 3d Battalion, 21st Infantry, 196th 
    Light Infantry Brigade, American Division, Republic of Vietnam, for 
    which he was previously awarded the Bronze Star Medal with ``V'' 
    Device.
    SEC. 584. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF DISTINGUISHED-SERVICE CROSS TO 
      FIRST LIEUTENANT MELVIN M. SPRUIELL FOR ACTS OF VALOR DURING 
      WORLD WAR II.
    (a) Waiver of Time Limitations.--Notwithstanding the time 
limitations specified in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, 
or any other time limitation with respect to the awarding of certain 
medals to persons who served in the Armed Forces, the Secretary of the 
Army may award the Distinguished-Service Cross under section 3742 of 
such title to First Lieutenant Melvin M. Spruiell of the Army for the 
acts of valor during World War II described in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of First Lieutenant Melvin M. Spruiell 
on June 10 and 11, 1944, as a member of the Army serving in France with 
the 377th Parachute Field Artillery, 101st Airborne Division.
    SEC. 585. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE DISTINGUISHED SERVICE 
      CROSS TO CHAPLAIN (FIRST LIEUTENANT) JOSEPH VERBIS LAFLEUR FOR 
      ACTS OF VALOR DURING WORLD WAR II.
    (a) Authorization.--Notwithstanding the time limitations specified 
in section 3744 of title 10, United States Code, or any other time 
limitation with respect to the awarding of certain medals to persons 
who served in the Armed Forces, the Secretary of the Army may award the 
Distinguished Service Cross under section 3742 of that title to 
Chaplain (First Lieutenant) Joseph Verbis LaFleur for the acts of valor 
referred to in subsection (b).
    (b) Acts of Valor Described.--The acts of valor referred to in 
subsection (a) are the actions of Chaplain (First Lieutenant) Joseph 
Verbis LaFleur while interned as a prisoner-of- war by Japan from 
December 30, 1941, to September 7, 1944.
    SEC. 586. REVIEW REGARDING AWARD OF MEDAL OF HONOR TO CERTAIN ASIAN 
      AMERICAN AND NATIVE AMERICAN PACIFIC ISLANDER WAR VETERANS.
    (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of each military department 
shall review the service records of each Asian American and Native 
American Pacific Islander war veteran described in subsection (b) to 
determine whether that veteran should be awarded the Medal of Honor.
    (b) Covered Veterans.--The Asian American and Native American 
Pacific Islander war veterans whose service records are to be reviewed 
under subsection (a) are any former members of the Armed Forces whose 
service records identify them as an Asian American or Native American 
Pacific Islander war veteran who was awarded the Distinguished-Service 
Cross, the Navy Cross, or the Air Force Cross during the Korean War or 
the Vietnam War.
    (c) Consultations.--In carrying out the review under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of each military department shall consult with such 
veterans service organizations as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (d) Recommendations Based on Review.--If the Secretary concerned 
determines, based upon the review under subsection (a) of the service 
records of any Asian American or Native American Pacific Islander war 
veteran, that the award of the Medal of Honor to that veteran is 
warranted, the Secretary shall submit to the President a recommendation 
that the President award the Medal of Honor to that veteran.
    (e) Authority to Award Medal of Honor.--A Medal of Honor may be 
awarded to an Asian American or Native American Pacific Islander war 
veteran in accordance with a recommendation of the Secretary concerned 
under subsection (d).
    (f) Congressional Notification.--No Medal of Honor may be awarded 
pursuant to subsection (e) until the Secretary of Defense submits to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives notice of the recommendations under subsection (d), 
including the name of each Asian American or Native American Pacific 
Islander war veteran recommended to be awarded a Medal of Honor and the 
rationale for such recommendation.
    (g) Waiver of Time Limitations.--An award of the Medal of Honor may 
be made under subsection (e) without regard to--
        (1) section 3744, 6248, or 8744 of title 10, United States 
    Code, as applicable; and
        (2) any regulation or other administrative restriction on--
            (A) the time for awarding the Medal of Honor; or
            (B) the awarding of the Medal of Honor for service for 
        which a Distinguished-Service Cross, Navy Cross, or Air Force 
        Cross has been awarded.
    (h) Definition.--In this section, the term ``Native American 
Pacific Islander'' means a Native Hawaiian or Native American Pacific 
Islander, as those terms are defined in section 815 of the Native 
American Programs Act of 1974 (42 U.S.C. 2992c).

          Subtitle J--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 591. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR A CHAPLAIN AT THE UNITED STATES 
      AIR FORCE ACADEMY APPOINTED BY THE PRESIDENT.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 9337 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 903 of such title is amended by striking the item related to 
section 9337.
    SEC. 592. EXTENSION OF LIMITATION ON REDUCTION IN NUMBER OF 
      MILITARY AND CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ASSIGNED TO DUTY WITH SERVICE 
      REVIEW AGENCIES.
    Section 1559(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
    SEC. 593. ANNUAL REPORTS ON PROGRESS OF THE ARMY AND THE MARINE 
      CORPS IN INTEGRATING WOMEN INTO MILITARY OCCUPATIONAL 
      SPECIALITIES AND UNITS RECENTLY OPENED TO WOMEN.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than April 1, 2017, and each year 
thereafter through 2020, the Chief of Staff of the Army and the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps shall each submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on the current status of the implementation by the Army and the Marine 
Corps, respectively, of the policy of Secretary of Defense dated March 
9, 2016, to open to women military occupational specialties and units 
previously closed to women.
    (b) Elements.--Each report shall include, current as of the date of 
such report and for the Armed Force covered by such report, the 
following:
        (1) The status of gender-neutral standards throughout the Entry 
    Level Training continuum.
        (2) The propensity of applicants to apply for and access into 
    newly-opened ground combat programs, by gender and program.
        (3) Success rates in Initial Screening Tests and Military 
    Occupational Speciality (MOS) Classification Standards for newly-
    opened ground combat military occupational specialties, by gender.
        (4) Attrition rates and the top three causes of attrition 
    throughout the Entry Level Training continuum, by gender and 
    military occupational specialty.
        (5) Reclassification rates and the top three causes of 
    reclassification throughout the Entry Level Training continuum, by 
    gender and military occupational specialty.
        (6) Injury rates and the top five causes of injury throughout 
    the Entry Level Training continuum, by gender and military 
    occupational specialty.
        (7) Injury rates and nondeployability rates in newly-opened 
    ground combat military occupational specialties, by gender and 
    military occupational specialty.
        (8) Lateral move approval rates into newly-opened military 
    occupational specialties, by gender and military occupational 
    specialty.
        (9) Reenlistment and retention rates in newly-opened ground 
    combat military occupational specialties, by gender and military 
    occupational specialty.
        (10) Promotion rates in newly-opened ground combat military 
    occupational specialties, by grade and gender.
        (11) Actions taken to address matters relating to equipment 
    sizing and supply, and facilities, in connection with the 
    implementation by such Armed Force of the policy referred to in 
    paragraph (1).
    (c) Applicability to SOCOM.--In addition to the reports required by 
subsection (a), the Commander of the United States Special Operations 
Command shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives, on the dates provided for in 
subsection (a), a report on the current status of the implementation by 
the United States Special Operations Command of the policy of Secretary 
of Defense referred to in subsection (a). Each report shall include the 
matters specified in subsection (b) with respect to the United States 
Special Operations Command.
    SEC. 594. REPORT ON FEASABILITY OF ELECTRONIC TRACKING OF 
      OPERATIONAL ACTIVE-DUTY SERVICE PERFORMED BY MEMBERS OF THE READY 
      RESERVE OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    Not later than March 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the feasability of establishing an 
electronic means by which members of the Ready Reserve of the Armed 
Forces can track their operational active-duty service performed after 
January 28, 2008, under section 12301(a), 12301(d), 12301(g), 12302, or 
12304 of title 10, United States Code. The means assessed for purposes 
of the report shall include a tour calculator that specifies early 
retirement credit authorized for each qualifying tour of active duty, 
as well as cumulative early reserve retirement credit authorized to 
date under section 12731(f) of such title.
    SEC. 595. REPORT ON DISCHARGE BY WARRANT OFFICERS OF PILOT AND 
      OTHER FLIGHT OFFICER POSITIONS IN THE NAVY, MARINE CORPS, AND AIR 
      FORCE CURRENTLY DISCHARGED BY COMMISSIONED OFFICERS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy and the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall each submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the feasibility 
and advisability of the discharge by warrant officers of pilot and 
other flight officer positions in the Armed Forces under the 
jurisdiction of such Secretary that are currently discharged by 
commissioned officers.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall set forth, 
for each Armed Force covered by such report, the following:
        (1) An assessment of the feasibility and advisability of the 
    discharge by warrant officers of pilot and other flight officer 
    positions that are currently discharged by commissioned officers.
        (2) An identification of each such position, if any, for which 
    the discharge by warrant officers is assessed to be feasible and 
    advisable.
    SEC. 596. BODY MASS INDEX TEST.
    (a) Review Required.--Each Secretary of a military department shall 
review--
        (1) the current body mass index test procedure used by each 
    Armed Force under the jurisdiction of that Secretary; and
        (2) other methods to measure body fat with a more holistic 
    health and wellness approach.
    (b) Elements.--The review required under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) address nutrition counseling;
        (2) determine the best methods to be used by the Armed Forces 
    to assess body fat percentages; and
        (3) improve the accuracy of body fat measurements.
    SEC. 597. REPORT ON CAREER PROGRESSION TRACKS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      FOR WOMEN IN COMBAT ARMS UNITS.
    Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report setting 
forth a description, for each Armed Force, of the following:
        (1) The career progression track for entry level women as 
    officers in combat arms units of such Armed Force.
        (2) The career progression track for laterally transferred 
    women as officers in combat arms units of such Armed Force.
        (3) The career progression track for entry level women as 
    enlisted members in combat arms units of such Armed Force.
        (4) The career progression track for laterally transferred 
    women as enlisted members in combat arms units of such Armed Force.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. Fiscal year 2017 increase in military basic pay.
Sec. 602. Publication by Department of Defense of actual rates of basic 
          pay payable to members of the Armed Forces by pay grade for 
          annual or other pay periods.
Sec. 603. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
          of basic allowance for housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 604. Reports on a new single-salary pay system for members of the 
          Armed Forces.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
          nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
          consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
          authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other 
          title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Aviation incentive pay and bonus matters.
Sec. 617. Conforming amendment to consolidation of special pay, 
          incentive pay, and bonus authorities.
Sec. 618. Technical amendments relating to 2008 consolidation of certain 
          special pay authorities.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

Sec. 621. Maximum reimbursement amount for travel expenses of members of 
          the Reserves attending inactive duty training outside of 
          normal commuting distances.

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

        Part I--Amendments in Connection With Retired Pay Reform

Sec. 631. Election period for members in the service academies and 
          inactive Reserves to participate in the modernized retirement 
          system.
Sec. 632. Effect of separation of members from the uniformed services on 
          participation in the Thrift Savings Plan.
Sec. 633. Continuation pay for full Thrift Savings Plan members who have 
          completed 8 to 12 years of service.
Sec. 634. Combat-related special compensation coordinating amendment.

                         Part II--Other Matters

Sec. 641. Use of member's current pay grade and years of service and 
          retired pay cost-of-living adjustments, rather than final 
          retirement pay grade and years of service, in a division of 
          property involving disposable retired pay.
Sec. 642. Equal benefits under Survivor Benefit Plan for survivors of 
          reserve component members who die in the line of duty during 
          inactive-duty training.
Sec. 643. Authority to deduct Survivor Benefit Plan premiums from 
          combat-related special compensation when retired pay not 
          sufficient.
Sec. 644. Extension of allowance covering monthly premium for 
          Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance while in certain overseas 
          areas to cover members in any combat zone or overseas direct 
          support area.
Sec. 645. Authority for payment of pay and allowances and retired and 
          retainer pay pursuant to power of attorney.
Sec. 646. Extension of authority to pay special survivor indemnity 
          allowance under the Survivor Benefit Plan.
Sec. 647. Repeal of obsolete authority for combat-related injury 
          rehabilitation pay.
Sec. 648. Independent assessment of the Survivor Benefit Plan.

Subtitle E--Commissary and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality Benefits 
                             and Operations

Sec. 661. Protection and enhancement of access to and savings at 
          commissaries and exchanges.
Sec. 662. Acceptance of Military Star Card at commissaries.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 671. Recovery of amounts owed to the United States by members of 
          the uniformed services.
Sec. 672. Modification of flat rate per diem requirement for personnel 
          on long-term temporary duty assignments.

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

    SEC. 601. FISCAL YEAR 2017 INCREASE IN MILITARY BASIC PAY.
    (a) Waiver of Section 1009 Adjustment.--The adjustment to become 
effective during fiscal year 2017 required by section 1009 of title 37, 
United States Code, in the rates of monthly basic pay authorized 
members of the uniformed services shall not be made.
    (b) Increase in Basic Pay.--Effective on January 1, 2017, the rates 
of monthly basic pay for members of the uniformed services are 
increased by 2.1 percent.
    SEC. 602. PUBLICATION BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF ACTUAL RATES OF 
      BASIC PAY PAYABLE TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES BY PAY GRADE FOR 
      ANNUAL OR OTHER PAY PERIODS.
    Any pay table published or otherwise issued by the Department of 
Defense to indicate the rates of basic pay of the Armed Forces in 
effect for members of the Armed Forces for a calendar year or other 
period shall state the rate of basic pay to be received by members in 
each pay grade for such year or period as specified or otherwise 
provided by applicable law, including any rate to be so received 
pursuant during such year or period by the operation of a ceiling under 
section 203(a)(2) of title 37, United States Code, or a similar 
provision in an annual defense authorization Act.
    SEC. 603. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY INCREASE IN 
      RATES OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
    Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
    SEC. 604. REPORTS ON A NEW SINGLE-SALARY PAY SYSTEM FOR MEMBERS OF 
      THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Report on Plan To Implement New Pay Structure.--Not later than 
March 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representative a 
report that sets forth the following:
        (1) The military pay tables as of January 1, 2017, reflecting 
    the Regular Military Compensation of members of the Armed Forces as 
    of that date in the range of grades, dependency statuses, and 
    assignment locations.
        (2) A comprehensive description of the manner in which the 
    Department of Defense would begin, by not later than January 1, 
    2018, to implement a transition between the current pay structure 
    for members of the Armed Forces and a new pay structure for members 
    of the Armed Forces as provided for by this section.
    (b) Report on Elements of New Pay Structure.--Not later than 
January 1, 2018, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representative a report that 
sets forth the following:
        (1) A description and comparison of the current pay structure 
    for members of the Armed Forces and a new pay structure for members 
    of the Armed Forces, including new pay tables, that uses a single-
    salary pay system (as adjusted by the same cost-of-living 
    adjustment that the Department of Defense uses worldwide for 
    civilian employees) based on the assumptions in subsection (c).
        (2) A proposal for such legislative and administrative action 
    as the Secretary considers appropriate to implement the new pay 
    structure, and to provide for a transition between the current pay 
    structure and the new pay structure.
        (3) A comprehensive schedule for the implementation of the new 
    pay structure and for the transition between the current pay 
    structure and the new pay structure, including all significant 
    deadlines.
    (c) New Pay Structure.--The new pay structure described pursuant to 
subsection (b)(1) shall assume the repeal of the basic allowance for 
housing and basic allowance subsistence for members of the Armed Forces 
in favor of a single-salary pay system, and shall include the 
following:
        (1) A statement of pay comparability with the civilian sector 
    adequate to effectively recruit and retain a high-quality All-
    Volunteer Force.
        (2) The level of pay necessary by grade and years of service to 
    meet pay comparability as described in paragraph (1) in order to 
    recruit and retain a high-quality All-Volunteer Force.
        (3) Necessary modifications to the military retirement system, 
    including the retired pay multiplier, to ensure that members of the 
    Armed Forces under the pay structure are situated similarly to 
    where they would otherwise be under the military retirement system 
    that will take effect on January 1, 2018, by reason part I of 
    subtitle D of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 842), and the amendments 
    made by that part.
    (d) Cost Containment.--The single-salary pay system under the new 
pay structure provided for by this section shall be a single-salary pay 
system that will result in no or minimal additional costs to the 
Government, both in terms of annual discretionary outlays and 
entitlements, when compared with the continuation of the current pay 
system for members of the Armed Forces.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

    SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
      AUTHORITIES FOR RESERVE FORCES.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2017'':
        (1) Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve reenlistment 
    bonus.
        (2) Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve affiliation 
    or enlistment bonus.
        (3) Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted 
    members assigned to certain high-priority units.
        (4) Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment 
    bonus for persons without prior service.
        (5) Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment and 
    reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
        (6) Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve enlistment 
    and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
        (7) Section 478a(e), relating to reimbursement of travel 
    expenses for inactive-duty training outside of normal commuting 
    distance.
        (8) Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments for 
    reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
    mobilization for active duty service.
    SEC. 612. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
      AUTHORITIES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.
    (a) Title 10 Authorities.--The following sections of title 10, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2017'':
        (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate 
    accession program.
        (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans 
    for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
    (b) Title 37 Authorities.--The following sections of title 37, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2017'':
        (1) Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention 
    bonuses for psychologists.
        (2) Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
    registered nurses.
        (3) Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay for 
    nurse anesthetists.
        (4) Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected 
    Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime 
    specialties.
        (5) Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for dental 
    officers.
        (6) Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for pharmacy 
    officers.
        (7) Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for medical 
    officers in critically short wartime specialties.
        (8) Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental 
    specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.
    SEC. 613. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY AND BONUS AUTHORITIES 
      FOR NUCLEAR OFFICERS.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2017'':
        (1) Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-
    qualified officers extending period of active service.
        (2) Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession 
    bonus.
        (3) Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual 
    incentive bonus.
    SEC. 614. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 37 
      CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND BONUS AUTHORITIES.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2017'':
        (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
    enlisted members.
        (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
    officers.
        (3) Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for nuclear officers.
        (4) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay 
    and bonus authorities for officers.
        (5) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for officers in health professions.
        (6) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets 
    and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps.
        (7) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
        (8) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty 
    pay.
        (9) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
    proficiency bonus.
        (10) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
    members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high 
    priority units.
    SEC. 615. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PAYMENT OF 
      OTHER TITLE 37 BONUSES AND SPECIAL PAYS.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2017'':
        (1) Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention 
    bonus.
        (2) Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
        (3) Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for active 
    members.
        (4) Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
        (5) Section 316a(g), relating to incentive pay for members of 
    precommissioning programs pursuing foreign language proficiency.
        (6) Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new 
    officers in critical skills.
        (7) Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for conversion 
    to military occupational specialty to ease personnel shortage.
        (8) Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for transfer 
    between Armed Forces.
        (9) Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer 
    candidates.
    SEC. 616. AVIATION INCENTIVE PAY AND BONUS MATTERS.
    (a) Maximum Incentive Pay and Bonus Amounts.--Paragraph (1) of 
section 334(c) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) and inserting the following new 
subparagraphs:
            ``(A) aviation incentive pay under subsection (a) shall be 
        paid at a monthly rate not to exceed $1,000 per month; and
            ``(B) an aviation bonus under subsection (b) may not exceed 
        $35,000 for each 12-month period of obligated service agreed to 
        under subsection (d).''.
    (b) Annual Business Case for Payment of Aviation Bonus.--Such 
section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) Annual business case for payment of aviation bonus 
    amounts.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary concerned shall determine 
        the amount of the aviation bonus payable under paragraph (1)(B) 
        under agreements entered into under subsection (d) during a 
        fiscal year solely through a business case analysis of the 
        amount required to be paid under such agreements in order to 
        address anticipated manning shortfalls for such fiscal year by 
        aircraft type category.
            ``(B) Budget justification documents.--The budget 
        justification documents in support of the budget of the 
        President for a fiscal year (as submitted to Congress pursuant 
        to section 1105 of title 31) shall set forth for each uniformed 
        service the following:
                ``(i) The amount requested for the payment of aviation 
            bonuses under subsection (b) using amounts authorized to be 
            appropriated for the fiscal year concerned by aircraft type 
            category.
                ``(ii) The business case analysis supporting the amount 
            so requested by aircraft type category.
                ``(iii) For each aircraft type category, whether or not 
            the amount requested will permit the payment during the 
            fiscal year concerned of the maximum amount of the aviation 
            bonus authorized by paragraph (1)(B).
                ``(iv) If any amount requested is to address manning 
            shortfalls, a description of any plans of the Secretary 
            concerned to address such shortfalls by nonmonetary 
            means.''.
    SEC. 617. CONFORMING AMENDMENT TO CONSOLIDATION OF SPECIAL PAY, 
      INCENTIVE PAY, AND BONUS AUTHORITIES.
    Section 332(c)(1)(B) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$12,000'' and inserting ``$20,000''.
    SEC. 618. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO 2008 CONSOLIDATION OF 
      CERTAIN SPECIAL PAY AUTHORITIES.
    (a) Family Care Plans.--Section 586 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 
991 note) is amended by inserting ``or 351'' after ``section 310''.
    (b) Dependents' Medical Care.--Section 1079(g)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting ``or 351'' after ``section 
310''.
    (c) Retention on Active Duty During Disability Evaluation 
Process.--Section 1218(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting ``or 351'' after ``section 310''.
    (d) Storage Space.--Section 362(1) of the John Warner National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 
U.S.C. 2825 note) is amended by inserting ``, or paragraph (1) or (3) 
of section 351(a),'' after ``section 310''.
    (e) Student Assistance Programs.--Sections 455(o)(3)(B) and 
465(a)(2)(D) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
1087e(o)(3)(B), 1087ee(a)(2)(D)) are amended by inserting ``, or 
paragraph (1) or (3) of section 351(a),'' after ``section 310''.
    (f) Armed Forces Retirement Home.--Section 1512(a)(3)(A) of the 
Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 1991 (24 U.S.C. 412(a)(3)(A)) is 
amended by inserting ``or 351'' after ``section 310''.
    (g) Veterans of Foreign Wars Membership.--Section 230103(3) of 
title 36, United States Code, is amended by inserting ``or 351'' after 
``section 310''.
    (h) Military Pay and Allowances.--Title 37, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in section 212(a), by inserting ``, or paragraph (1) or (3) 
    of section 351(a),'' after ``section 310'';
        (2) in section 402a(b)(3)(B), by inserting ``or 351'' after 
    ``section 310'';
        (3) in section 481a(a), by inserting ``or 351'' after ``section 
    310'';
        (4) in section 907(d)(1)(H), by inserting ``or 351'' after 
    ``section 310''; and
        (5) in section 910(b)(2)(B), by inserting ``, or paragraph (1) 
    or (3) of section 351(a),'' after ``section 310''.
    (i) Exclusions From Income for Purpose of Supplemental Security 
Income.--Section 1612(b)(20) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1382a(b)(20)) is amended by inserting ``, or paragraph (1) or (3) of 
section 351(a),'' after ``section 310''.
    (j) Exclusions From Income for Purpose of Head Start Program.--
Section 645(a)(3)(B)(i) of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 
9840(a)(3)(B)(i)) is amended by inserting ``or 351'' after ``section 
310''.
    (k) Exclusions From Gross Income for Federal Income Tax Purposes.--
Section 112(c)(5)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by 
inserting ``, or paragraph (1) or (3) of section 351(a),'' after 
``section 310''.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

    SEC. 621. MAXIMUM REIMBURSEMENT AMOUNT FOR TRAVEL EXPENSES OF 
      MEMBERS OF THE RESERVES ATTENDING INACTIVE DUTY TRAINING OUTSIDE 
      OF NORMAL COMMUTING DISTANCES.
    Section 478a(c) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The amount'' and inserting the following: 
    ``(1) Except as provided by paragraph (2), the amount''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary concerned may authorize, on a case-by-case 
basis, a higher reimbursement amount for a member under subsection (a) 
when the member--
        ``(A) resides--
            ``(i) in the same State as the training location; and
            ``(ii) outside of an urbanized area with a population of 
        50,000 or more, as determined by the Bureau of the Census; and
        ``(B) is required to commute to a training location--
            ``(i) using an aircraft or boat on account of limited or 
        nonexistent vehicular routes to the training location or other 
        geographical challenges; or
            ``(ii) from a permanent residence located more than 75 
        miles from the training location.''.

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

        PART I--AMENDMENTS IN CONNECTION WITH RETIRED PAY REFORM

    SEC. 631. ELECTION PERIOD FOR MEMBERS IN THE SERVICE ACADEMIES AND 
      INACTIVE RESERVES TO PARTICIPATE IN THE MODERNIZED RETIREMENT 
      SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Paragraph (4)(C) of section 1409(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in clause (i), by striking ``and (iii)'' and inserting ``, 
    (iii), (iv), and (v)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new clauses:
                ``(iv) Cadets and midshipmen, etc.--A member of a 
            uniformed service who serves as a cadet, midshipman, or 
            member of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
            during the election period specified in clause (i) shall 
            make the election described in subparagraph (B)--

                    ``(I) on or after the date on which such cadet, 
                midshipman, or member of the Senior Reserve Officers' 
                Training Corps is appointed as a commissioned officer 
                or otherwise begins to receive basic pay; and
                    ``(II) not later than 30 days after such date or 
                the end of such election period, whichever is later.

                ``(v) Inactive reserves.--A member of a reserve 
            component who is not in an active status during the 
            election period specified in clause (i) shall make the 
            election described in subparagraph (B)--

                    ``(I) on or after the date on which such member is 
                transferred from an inactive status to an active status 
                or active duty; and
                    ``(II) not later than 30 days after such date or 
                the end of such election period, whichever is later.''.

    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into 
effect of the amendments made by section 631(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
842), to which the amendments made by subsection (a) relate.
    SEC. 632. EFFECT OF SEPARATION OF MEMBERS FROM THE UNIFORMED 
      SERVICES ON PARTICIPATION IN THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN.
    Effective as of the date of the enactment of this Act, paragraph 
(2) of section 632(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 847) is repealed, and 
the amendment proposed to be made by that paragraph shall not be made 
or go into effect.
    SEC. 633. CONTINUATION PAY FOR FULL THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN MEMBERS WHO 
      HAVE COMPLETED 8 TO 12 YEARS OF SERVICE.
    (a) Continuation Pay.--Subsection (a) of section 356 of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (1):
        ``(1) has completed not less than 8 and not more than 12 years 
    of service in a uniformed service; and''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``an additional 4 years'' and 
    inserting ``not less than 3 additional years''.
    (b) Payment Amount.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended by 
striking all the matter preceding paragraph (1) and inserting the 
following:
    ``(b) Payment Amount.--The Secretary concerned shall determine the 
payment amount under this section as a multiple of a full TSP member's 
monthly basic pay. The multiple for a full TSP member who is a member 
of a regular component or a reserve component, if the member is 
performing active Guard and Reserve duty (as defined in section 
101(d)(6) of title 10), shall not be less than 2.5 times the member's 
monthly basic pay. The multiple for a full TSP member who is a member 
of a reserve component not performing active Guard or Reserve duty (as 
so defined) shall not be less than 0.5 times the monthly basic pay to 
which the member would be entitled if the member were a member of a 
regular component. The maximum amount the Secretary concerned may pay a 
member under this section is--''.
    (c) Timing of Payment.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended 
to read as follows:
    ``(d) Timing of Payment.--The Secretary concerned shall pay 
continuation pay under subsection (a) to a full TSP member when the 
member has completed not less than 8 and not more than 12 years of 
service in a uniformed service.''.
    (d) Conforming and Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Heading.--The heading of such section is amended to read as 
    follows:
``Sec. 356. Continuation pay: full TSP members with 8 to 12 years of 
   service''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 5 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 356 and inserting the following new item:

``356. Continuation pay: full TSP members with 8 to 12 years of 
          service.''.

    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into effect of 
the amendments providing for section 356 of title 37, United States 
Code, to which the amendments made by this section relate.
    SEC. 634. COMBAT-RELATED SPECIAL COMPENSATION COORDINATING 
      AMENDMENT.
    (a) In General.--Section 1413a(b)(3)(B) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking `` 2\1/2\ percent'' and inserting ``the 
retired pay percentage (determined for the member under section 1409(b) 
of this title)''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2018, immediately after the coming into 
effect of the amendments made by part I of subtitle D of title VI of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92; 129 Stat. 842), to which the amendment made by subsection (a) 
relates.

                         PART II--OTHER MATTERS

    SEC. 641. USE OF MEMBER'S CURRENT PAY GRADE AND YEARS OF SERVICE 
      AND RETIRED PAY COST-OF-LIVING ADJUSTMENTS, RATHER THAN FINAL 
      RETIREMENT PAY GRADE AND YEARS OF SERVICE, IN A DIVISION OF 
      PROPERTY INVOLVING DISPOSABLE RETIRED PAY.
    (a) In General.--Section 1408(a)(4) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D) as 
    clauses (i), (ii), (iii), (iv), respectively;
        (2) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(4)'';
        (3) in subparagraph (A), as designated by paragraph (2), by 
    inserting ``(as determined pursuant to subparagraph (B)'' after 
    ``member is entitled''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), the total monthly 
    retired pay to which a member is entitled shall be--
            ``(i) the amount of basic pay payable to the member for the 
        member's pay grade and years of service at the time of the 
        court order, as increased by
            ``(ii) each cost-of-living adjustment that occurs under 
        section 1401a(b) of this title between the time of the court 
        order and the time of the member's retirement using the 
        adjustment provisions under that section applicable to the 
        member upon retirement.''.
    (b) Application of Amendments.--The amendments made by subsection 
(a) shall apply with respect to any division of property as part of a 
final decree of divorce, dissolution, annulment, or legal separation 
involving a member of the Armed Forces to which section 1408 of title 
10, United States Code, applies that becomes final after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 642. EQUAL BENEFITS UNDER SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN FOR SURVIVORS 
      OF RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS WHO DIE IN THE LINE OF DUTY DURING 
      INACTIVE-DUTY TRAINING.
    (a) Treatment of Inactive-Duty Training in Same Manner as Active 
Duty.--Section 1451(c)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in clause (i)--
            (A) by inserting ``or 1448(f)'' after ``section 1448(d)''; 
        and
            (B) by inserting ``or (iii)'' after ``clause (ii)''; and
        (2) in clause (iii)--
            (A) by striking ``section 1448(f) of this title'' and 
        inserting ``section 1448(f)(1)(A) of this title by reason of 
        the death of a member or former member not in line of duty''; 
        and
            (B) by striking ``active service'' and inserting 
        ``service''.
    (b) Consistent Treatment of Dependent Children.--Paragraph (2) of 
section 1448(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
        ``(2) Dependent children annuity.--
            ``(A) Annuity when no eligible surviving spouse.--In the 
        case of a person described in paragraph (1), the Secretary 
        concerned shall pay an annuity under this subchapter to the 
        dependent children of that person under section 1450(a)(2) of 
        this title as applicable.
            ``(B) Optional annuity when there is an eligible surviving 
        spouse.--The Secretary may pay an annuity under this subchapter 
        to the dependent children of a person described in paragraph 
        (1) under section 1450(a)(3) of this title, if applicable, 
        instead of paying an annuity to the surviving spouse under 
        paragraph (1), if the Secretary concerned, in consultation with 
        the surviving spouse, determines it appropriate to provide an 
        annuity for the dependent children under this paragraph instead 
        of an annuity for the surviving spouse under paragraph (1).''.
    (c) Deemed Elections.--Section 1448(f) of title 10, United States 
Code, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(5) Deemed election to provide an annuity for dependent.--
    Paragraph (6) of subsection (d) shall apply in the case of a member 
    described in paragraph (1) who dies after November 23, 2003, when 
    no other annuity is payable on behalf of the member under this 
    subchapter.''.
    (d) Availability of Special Survivor Indemnity Allowance.--Section 
1450(m)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
``or (f)'' after ``subsection (d)''.
    (e) Application of Amendments.--
        (1) Payment.--No annuity benefit under subchapter II of chapter 
    73 of title 10, United States Code, shall accrue to any person by 
    reason of the amendments made by this section for any period before 
    the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Elections.--For any death that occurred before the date of 
    the enactment of this Act with respect to which an annuity under 
    such subchapter is being paid (or could be paid) to a surviving 
    spouse, the Secretary concerned may, within six months of that date 
    and in consultation with the surviving spouse, determine it 
    appropriate to provide an annuity for the dependent children of the 
    decedent under paragraph 1448(f)(2)(B) of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by subsection (b), instead of an annuity for the 
    surviving spouse. Any such determination and resulting change in 
    beneficiary shall be effective as of the first day of the first 
    month following the date of the determination.
    SEC. 643. AUTHORITY TO DEDUCT SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN PREMIUMS FROM 
      COMBAT-RELATED SPECIAL COMPENSATION WHEN RETIRED PAY NOT 
      SUFFICIENT.
    (a) Authority.--Subsection (d) of section 1452 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) Deduction from combat-related special compensation when 
    retired pay not adequate.--In the case of a person who has elected 
    to participate in the Plan and who has been awarded both retired 
    pay and combat-related special compensation under section 1413a of 
    this title, if a deduction from the person's retired pay for any 
    period cannot be made in the full amount required, there shall be 
    deducted from the person's combat-related special compensation in 
    lieu of deduction from the person's retired pay the amount that 
    would otherwise have been deducted from the person's retired pay 
    for that period.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments to Section 1452.--
        (1) Subsection (d) of such section is further amended--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or Not 
        Sufficient'' after ``Not Paid'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, except to the extent that the required 
        deduction is made pursuant to paragraph (2)''; and
            (C) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), 
        by striking ``Paragraph (1) does not'' and inserting 
        ``Paragraphs (1) and (2) do not''.
        (2) Subsection (f)(1) of such section is amended by inserting 
    ``or combat-related special compensation'' after ``from retired 
    pay''.
        (3) Subsection (g)(4) of such section is amended--
            (A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``or crsc'' 
        after ``retired pay''; and
            (B) by inserting ``or combat-related special compensation'' 
        after ``from the retired pay''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments to Other Provisions of SBP Statute.--
        (1) Section 1449(b)(2) of such title is amended--
            (A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``or crsc'' 
        after ``retired pay''; and
            (B) by inserting ``or combat-related special compensation'' 
        after ``from retired pay''.
        (2) Section 1450(e) of such title is amended--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or CRSC'' 
        after ``Retired Pay''; and
            (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or combat-related 
        special compensation'' after ``from the retired pay''.
    SEC. 644. EXTENSION OF ALLOWANCE COVERING MONTHLY PREMIUM FOR 
      SERVICEMEMBERS' GROUP LIFE INSURANCE WHILE IN CERTAIN OVERSEAS 
      AREAS TO COVER MEMBERS IN ANY COMBAT ZONE OR OVERSEAS DIRECT 
      SUPPORT AREA.
    (a) Expansion of Coverage.--Subsection (a) of section 437 of title 
37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``In the case of'';
        (2) by striking ``who serves in the theater of operations for 
    Operation Enduring Freedom or Operation Iraqi Freedom'' and 
    inserting ``who serves in a designated duty assignment''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `designated duty assignment' 
means a permanent or temporary duty assignment outside the United 
States or its possessions in support of a contingency operation in an 
area that--
        ``(A) has been designated a combat zone; or
        ``(B) is in direct support of an area that has been designated 
    a combat zone.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Cross-reference.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended 
    by striking ``theater of operations'' and inserting ``designated 
    duty assignment''.
        (2) Section heading.--The heading of such section is amended to 
    read as follows:
``Sec. 437. Allowance to cover monthly premiums for Servicemembers' 
   Group Life Insurance: members serving in a designated duty 
   assignment''.
        (3) Table of sections.--The item relating to section 437 in the 
    table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 of such title is 
    amended to read as follows:

``437. Allowance to cover monthly premium for Servicemembers' Group Life 
          Insurance: members serving in a designated duty assignment.''.

    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply to service by members of the Armed Forces in a designated duty 
assignment (as defined in subsection (a)(2) of section 437 of title 37, 
United States Code) for any month beginning on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 645. AUTHORITY FOR PAYMENT OF PAY AND ALLOWANCES AND RETIRED 
      AND RETAINER PAY PURSUANT TO POWER OF ATTORNEY.
    Section 602 of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``, in the opinion of a board of medical 
        officers or physicians,''; and
            (B) by striking ``use or benefit'' and all that follows 
        through ``any person designated'' and inserting the following: 
        ``use or benefit to--
        ``(1) a legal committee, guardian, or other representative that 
    has been appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction;
        ``(2) an individual to whom the member has granted authority to 
    manage such funds pursuant to a valid and legally executed durable 
    power of attorney; or
        ``(3) any person designated'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``The board shall consist'' and inserting 
        ``An individual may not be designated under subsection (a)(3) 
        to receive payments unless a board consisting''; and
            (B) by inserting ``determines that the member is mentally 
        incapable of managing the member's affairs. Any such board 
        shall be'' after ``treatment of mental disorders,'';
        (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``designated'' and inserting 
    ``authorized to receive payments'';
        (4) in subsection (d), by inserting ``, unless a court of 
    competent jurisdiction orders payment of such fee, commission, or 
    other charge'' before the period;
        (5) by striking subsection (e);
        (6) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e); and
        (7) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (6)--
            (A) by inserting ``under subsection (a)(3)'' after ``who is 
        designated''; and
            (B) by striking ``$1,000'' and inserting ``$25,000''.
    SEC. 646. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PAY SPECIAL SURVIVOR INDEMNITY 
      ALLOWANCE UNDER THE SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN.
    Section 1450(m) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(I), by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and 
    inserting ``each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018''; and
        (2) in paragraph (6)--
            (A) by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting ``May 
        31, 2018''; and
            (B) by striking ``October 1, 2017'' both places it appears 
        and inserting ``June 1, 2018''.
    SEC. 647. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE AUTHORITY FOR COMBAT-RELATED INJURY 
      REHABILITATION PAY.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 328 of title 37, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 5 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 328.
    SEC. 648. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF THE SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide 
for an independent assessment of the Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) under 
subchapter II of chapter 73 of title 10, United States Code, by a 
Federally-funded research and development center (FFRDC).
    (b) Assessment Elements.--The assessment conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
        (1) The purposes of the Survivor Benefit Plan, the manner in 
    which the Plan interacts with other Federal programs to provide 
    financial stability and resources for survivors of members of the 
    Armed Forces and military retirees, and a comparison between the 
    benefits available under the Plan, on the one hand, and benefits 
    available to Government and private sector employees, on the other 
    hand, intended to provide financial stability and resources for 
    spouses and other dependents when a primary family earner dies.
        (2) The effectiveness of the Survivor Benefit Plan in providing 
    survivors with intended benefits, including the provision of 
    survivor benefits for survivors of members of the Armed Forces 
    dying on active duty and members dying while in reserve active-
    status.
        (3) The feasibility and advisability of providing survivor 
    benefits through alternative insurance products available 
    commercially for similar purposes, the extent to which the 
    Government could subsidize such products at no cost in excess of 
    the costs of the Survivor Benefit Plan, and the extent to which 
    such products might meet the needs of survivors, especially those 
    on fixed incomes, to maintain financial stability.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth the results of the assessment conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a), together with such recommendations as the Secretary 
considers appropriate for legislative or administration action in light 
of the results of the assessment.

    Subtitle E--Commissary and Nonappropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                        Benefits and Operations

    SEC. 661. PROTECTION AND ENHANCEMENT OF ACCESS TO AND SAVINGS AT 
      COMMISSARIES AND EXCHANGES.
    (a) Optimization Strategy.--Section 2481(c) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following paragraph:
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense shall develop and implement a 
comprehensive strategy to optimize management practices across the 
defense commissary system and the exchange system that reduce reliance 
of those systems on appropriated funding without reducing benefits to 
the patrons of those systems or the revenue generated by 
nonappropriated fund entities or instrumentalities of the Department of 
Defense for the morale, welfare, and recreation of members of the armed 
forces.
    ``(B) The Secretary shall ensure that savings generated due to such 
optimization practices are shared by the defense commissary system and 
the exchange system through contracts or agreements that appropriately 
reflect the participation of the systems in the development and 
implementation of such practices.
    ``(C) If the Secretary determines that the reduced reliance on 
appropriated funding pursuant to subparagraph (A) is insufficient to 
maintain the benefits to the patrons of the defense commissary system, 
and if the Secretary converts the defense commissary system to a 
nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality pursuant to paragraph 
(1) of section 2484(j) of this title, the Secretary shall transfer 
appropriated funds pursuant to paragraph (2) of such section to ensure 
the maintenance of such benefits.
    ``(4) On not less than a quarterly basis, the Secretary shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the 
defense commissary system, including--
        ``(A) an assessment of the savings the system provides patrons;
        ``(B) the status of implementing section 2484(i) of this title;
        ``(C) the status of implementing section 2484(j) of this title, 
    including whether the system requires any appropriated funds 
    pursuant to paragraph (2) of such section;
        ``(D) the status of carrying out a program for such system to 
    sell private label merchandise; and
        ``(E) any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.''.
    (b) Authorization to Supplement Appropriations Through Business 
Optimization.--Section 2483(c) of such title is amended by adding at 
the end the following new sentence: ``Such appropriated amounts may 
also be supplemented with additional funds derived from improved 
management practices implemented pursuant to sections 2481(c)(3) and 
2487(c) of this title and the variable pricing program implemented 
pursuant to section 2484(i) of this title.''.
    (c) Variable Pricing Pilot Program.--Section 2484 of such title is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(i) Variable Pricing Program.--(1) Notwithstanding subsection 
(e), and subject to subsection (k), the Secretary of Defense may 
establish a variable pricing program pursuant to which prices may be 
established in response to market conditions and customer demand, in 
accordance with the requirements of this subsection. Notwithstanding 
the amount of the uniform surcharge assessed in subsection (d), the 
Secretary may provide for an alternative surcharge of not more than 
five percent of sales proceeds under the variable pricing program to be 
made available for the purposes specified in subsection (h).
    ``(2) Subject to subsection (k), before establishing a variable 
pricing program under this subsection, the Secretary shall establish 
the following:
        ``(A) Specific, measurable benchmarks for success in the 
    provision of high quality grocery merchandise, discount savings to 
    patrons, and levels of customer satisfaction while achieving 
    savings for the Department of Defense.
        ``(B) A baseline of overall savings to patrons achieved by 
    commissary stores prior to the initiation of the variable pricing 
    program, based on a comparison of prices charged by those stores on 
    a regional basis with prices charged by relevant local competitors 
    for a representative market basket of goods.
    ``(3) The Secretary shall ensure that the defense commissary system 
implements the variable pricing program by conducting price comparisons 
using the methodology established for paragraph (2)(B) and adjusting 
pricing as necessary to ensure that pricing in the variable pricing 
program achieves overall savings to patrons that are consistent with 
the baseline savings established for the relevant region pursuant to 
such paragraph.
    ``(j) Conversion to Nonappropriated Fund Entity or 
Instrumentality.--(1) Subject to subsection (k), if the Secretary of 
Defense determines that the variable pricing program has met the 
benchmarks for success established pursuant to paragraph (2)(A) of 
subsection (i) and the savings requirements established pursuant to 
paragraph (3) of such subsection over a period of at least six months, 
the Secretary may convert the defense commissary system to a 
nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality, with operating expenses 
financed in whole or in part by receipts from the sale of products and 
the sale of services. Upon such conversion, appropriated funds shall be 
transferred to the defense commissary system only in accordance with 
paragraph (2) or section 2491 of this title. The requirements of 
section 2483 of this title shall not apply to the defense commissary 
system operating as a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality.
    ``(2) If the Secretary determines that the defense commissary 
system operating as a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality is 
likely to incur a loss in any fiscal year as a result of compliance 
with the savings requirement established in subsection (i), the 
Secretary shall authorize a transfer of appropriated funds available 
for such purpose to the commissary system in an amount sufficient to 
offset the anticipated loss. Any funds so transferred shall be 
considered to be nonappropriated funds for such purpose.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary may identify positions of employees in the 
defense commissary system who are paid with appropriated funds whose 
status may be converted to the status of an employee of a 
nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality.
    ``(B) The status and conversion of employees in a position 
identified by the Secretary under subparagraph (A) shall be addressed 
as provided in section 2491(c) of this title for employees in morale, 
welfare, and recreation programs, including with respect to requiring 
the consent of such employee to be so converted.
    ``(C) No individual who is an employee of the defense commissary 
system as of the date of the enactment of this subsection shall suffer 
any loss of or decrease in pay as a result of a conversion made under 
this paragraph.
    ``(k) Oversight Required To Ensure Continued Benefit to Patrons.--
(1) With respect to each action described in paragraph (2), the 
Secretary of Defense may not carry out such action until--
        ``(A) the Secretary provides to the congressional defense 
    committees a briefing on such action, including a justification for 
    such action; and
        ``(B) a period of 30 days has elapsed following such briefing.
    ``(2) The actions described in this paragraph are the following:
        ``(A) Establishing the representative market basket of goods 
    pursuant to subsection (i)(2)(B).
        ``(B) Establishing the variable pricing program under 
    subsection (i)(1).
        ``(C) Converting the defense commissary system to a 
    nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality under subsection 
    (j)(1).''.
    (d) Establishment of Common Business Practices.--Section 2487 of 
such title is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Common Business Practices.--(1) Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b), the Secretary of Defense may establish common business 
processes, practices, and systems--
        ``(A) to exploit synergies between the defense commissary 
    system and the exchange system; and
        ``(B) to optimize the operations of the defense retail systems 
    as a whole and the benefits provided by the commissaries and 
    exchanges.
    ``(2) The Secretary may authorize the defense commissary system and 
the exchange system to enter into contracts or other agreements--
        ``(A) for products and services that are shared by the defense 
    commissary system and the exchange system; and
        ``(B) for the acquisition of supplies, resale goods, and 
    services on behalf of both the defense commissary system and the 
    exchange system.
    ``(3) For the purpose of a contract or agreement authorized under 
paragraph (2), the Secretary may--
        ``(A) use funds appropriated pursuant to section 2483 of this 
    title to reimburse a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality 
    for the portion of the cost of a contract or agreement entered by 
    the nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality that is 
    attributable to the defense commissary system; and
        ``(B) authorize the defense commissary system to accept 
    reimbursement from a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality 
    for the portion of the cost of a contract or agreement entered by 
    the defense commissary system that is attributable to the 
    nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality.''.
    (e) Authority for Expert Commercial Advice.--Section 2485 of such 
title is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Expert Commercial Advice.--The Secretary of Defense may enter 
into a contract with an entity to obtain expert commercial advice, 
commercial assistance, or other similar services not otherwise carried 
out by the Defense Commissary Agency, to implement section 2481(c), 
subsections (i) and (j) of section 2484, and section 2487(c) of this 
title.''.
    (f)  Clarification of References to ``the Exchange System''.--
Section 2481(a) of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: `` Any reference in this chapter to `the 
exchange system' shall be treated as referring to each separate 
administrative entity within the Department of Defense through which 
the Secretary has implemented the requirement under this subsection for 
a world-wide system of exchange stores.''.
    (g) Operation of Defense Commissary System as a Nonappropriated 
Fund Entity.--In the event that the defense commissary system is 
converted to a nonappropriated fund entity or instrumentality as 
authorized by section 2484(j)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (c) of this section, the Secretary of Defense may--
        (1) provide for the transfer of commissary assets, including 
    inventory and available funds, to the nonappropriated fund entity 
    or instrumentality; and
        (2) ensure that revenues accruing to the defense commissary 
    system are appropriately credited to the nonappropriated fund 
    entity or instrumentality.
    (h) Conforming Change.--Section 2643(b) of such title is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``Such appropriated funds 
may be supplemented with additional funds derived from improved 
management practices implemented pursuant to sections 2481(c)(3) and 
2487(c) of this title.''.
    SEC. 662. ACCEPTANCE OF MILITARY STAR CARD AT COMMISSARIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that--
        (1) commissary stores accept as payment the Military Star Card; 
    and
        (2) any financial liability of the United States relating to 
    such acceptance as payment be assumed by the Army and Air Force 
    Exchange Service.
    (b) Military Star Card Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Military Star Card'' means a credit card administered under the 
Exchange Credit Program by the Army and Air Force Exchange Service.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

    SEC. 671. RECOVERY OF AMOUNTS OWED TO THE UNITED STATES BY MEMBERS 
      OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
    (a) Statute of Limitations.--Section 1007(c)(3) of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraphs:
    ``(C)(i) In accordance with clause (ii), if the indebtedness of a 
member of the uniformed services to the United States occurs, through 
no fault of the member, as a result of the overpayment of pay or 
allowances to the member or upon the settlement of the member's 
accounts, the Secretary concerned may not recover the indebtedness from 
the member, including a retired or former member, using deductions from 
the pay of the member, deductions from retired or separation pay, or 
any other collection method unless recovery of the indebtedness 
commences before the end of the 10-year period beginning on the date on 
which the indebtedness was incurred.
    ``(ii) Clause (i) applies with respect to indebtedness incurred on 
or after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
    ``(D)(i) Not later than January 1 of each of 2017 through 2027, the 
Director of the Defense Finance and Accounting Service shall review all 
cases occurring during the 10-year period prior to the date of the 
review of indebtedness of a member of the uniformed services, including 
a retired or former member, to the United States in which--
        ``(I) the recovery of the indebtedness commenced after the end 
    of the 10-year period beginning on the date on which the 
    indebtedness was incurred; or
        ``(II) the Director did not otherwise notify the member of such 
    indebtedness during such 10-year period.
    ``(ii) The Director shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees and the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate each review conducted under clause (i), 
including the amounts owed to the United States by the members included 
in such review.''.
    (b) Remission or Cancellation of Indebtedness of Reserves Not on 
Active Duty.--
        (1) Army.--Section 4837(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``on active duty as a member of the Army'' and 
    inserting ``as a member of the Army, whether as a regular or a 
    reserve in active status''.
        (2) Navy.--Section 6161(a) of such title is amended by striking 
    ``on active duty as a member of the naval service'' and inserting 
    ``as a member of the naval service, whether as a regular or a 
    reserve in active status''.
        (3) Air force.--Section 9837(a) of such title is amended by 
    striking ``on active duty as a member of the Air Force'' and 
    inserting ``as a member of the Air Force, whether as a regular or a 
    reserve in active status''.
        (4) Coast guard.--Section 461(1) of title 14, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking ``on active duty as a member of the 
    Coast Guard'' and inserting ``as a member of the Coast Guard, 
    whether as a regular or a reserve in active status''.
        (5) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
    shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
    shall apply with respect to debt incurred on or after October 7, 
    2001.
    (c) Benefits Paid to Members of California National Guard.--
        (1) Review of certain benefits paid.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
        review of all bonus pays, special pays, student loan 
        repayments, and similar special payments that were paid to 
        members of the National Guard of the State of California during 
        the period beginning on January 1, 2004, and ending on December 
        31, 2015.
            (B) Exception.--A review is not required under this 
        paragraph for benefits paid as described in subparagraph (A) 
        that were reviewed before the date of the enactment of this Act 
        and in which fraud or other ineligibility was identified in 
        connection with payment.
            (C) Conduct of review.--The Secretary shall establish a 
        process to expedite the review required by this paragraph. The 
        Secretary shall allocate appropriate personnel and other 
        resources of the Department of Defense for the process, and for 
        such other purposes as the Secretary considers appropriate, in 
        order to achieve the completion of the review by the date 
        specified in subparagraph (D).
            (D) Completion.--The review required by this paragraph 
        shall be completed by not later than July 30, 2017.
        (2) Review.--
            (A) In general.--In conducting the review of benefits paid 
        to members of the National Guard of the State of California 
        pursuant to paragraph (1), the board of review concerned 
        shall--
                (i) carry out a complete review of all bonus pay and 
            special pay contracts awarded to such members during the 
            period described in paragraph (1)(A) for which the 
            Department has reason to believe a recoupment of pay may be 
            warranted in order to determine whether such members were 
            eligible for the contracts so awarded and whether the 
            contracts so awarded accurately specified the amounts of 
            pay for which members were eligible;
                (ii) carry out a complete review of all student loan 
            repayment contracts awarded to such members during the 
            period for which the Department has reason to believe a 
            recoupment of payment may be warranted in order to 
            determine whether such members were eligible for the 
            contracts so awarded and whether the contracts so awarded 
            accurately specified the amounts of payment for which 
            members were eligible;
                (iii) carry out a complete review of any other similar 
            special payments paid to such members during the period for 
            which the Department has reason to believe a recoupment of 
            payments may be warranted in order to determine whether 
            such members were eligible for payment and in such amount;
                (iv) if any member is determined not to have been 
            eligible for a bonus pay, special pay, student loan 
            repayment, or other special payment paid, determine whether 
            waiver of recoupment is warranted; and
                (v) if any bonus pay, special pay, student loan 
            repayment, or other special payment paid to any such member 
            during the period has been recouped, determine whether the 
            recoupment was unwarranted.
            (B) Waiver of recoupment.--For purposes of clause (iv) of 
        subparagraph (A), the board of review shall determine that 
        waiver of recoupment is warranted with respect to a particular 
        member unless the board makes an affirmative determination, by 
        a preponderance of the evidence, that the member knew or 
        reasonably should have known that the member was ineligible for 
        the bonus pay, special pay, student loan repayment, or other 
        special payment otherwise subject to recoupment.
            (C) Propriety of recoupment.--For purposes of clause (v) of 
        subparagraph (A), the board of review shall determine that 
        recoupment was unwarranted with respect to a particular member 
        unless the board makes an affirmative determination, by a 
        preponderance of the evidence, that the member knew or 
        reasonably should have known that the member was ineligible for 
        the bonus pay, special pay, student loan repayment, or other 
        special payment recouped.
            (D) Standard of review.--In applying subparagraph (B) or 
        (C) in making a determination under clause (iv) or (v) of 
        subparagraph (A), as applicable, with respect to a member, the 
        board of review shall evaluate the evidence in a light most 
        favorable to the member.
        (3) Participation of members.--
            (A) In general.--A member subject to a determination under 
        clause (iv) or (v) of paragraph (2)(A) may submit to the board 
        of review concerned such documentary and other evidence as the 
        member considers appropriate to assist the board of review in 
        the determination.
            (B) Notice.--The Secretary shall notify, in writing, each 
        member subject to a determination under clause (iv) or (v) of 
        paragraph (2)(A) of the review under paragraph (1) and the 
        applicability of the determination process under such clause to 
        such member. The notice shall be provided at a time designed to 
        give each member a reasonable opportunity to submit documentary 
        and other evidence as authorized by subparagraph (A). The 
        notice shall provide each member the following:
                (i) Notice of the opportunity for such member to submit 
            evidence to assist the board of review.
                (ii) A description of resources available to such 
            member to submit such evidence.
            (C) Consideration.--In making a determination under clause 
        (iv) or (v) of paragraph (2)(A) with respect to a member, the 
        board of review shall undertake a comprehensive review of any 
        submissions made by the member pursuant to this paragraph.
        (4) Actions following review.--
            (A) Waiver of recoupment.--Upon completion of a review 
        pursuant to paragraph (2)(A)(iv) with respect to a member--
                (i) the board of review shall submit to the Secretary 
            concerned a notice setting forth--

                    (I) the determination of the board pursuant to that 
                paragraph with respect to the member; and
                    (II) the recommendation of the board whether or not 
                the recoupment of the bonus pay, special pay, student 
                loan repayment, or other special payment covered by the 
                determination should be waived; and

                (ii) the Secretary may waive recoupment of the pay, 
            repayment, or other payment from the member.
            (B) Repayment of amount recouped.--Upon completion of a 
        review pursuant to paragraph (2)(A)(v) with respect to a 
        member--
                (i) the board of review shall submit to the Secretary 
            concerned a notice setting forth--

                    (I) the determination of the board pursuant to that 
                paragraph with respect to the member; and
                    (II) the recommendation of the board whether or not 
                the recouped bonus pay, special pay, student loan 
                repayment, or other special payment covered by the 
                determination should be repaid the member; and

                (ii) the Secretary may repay the member the amount so 
            recouped.
            (C) Consumer credit and related matters.--If the Secretary 
        concerned waives recoupment of a bonus pay, special pay, 
        student loan repayment, or other special payment paid a member 
        pursuant to paragraph (4)(A)(ii), or repays a member an amount 
        of a bonus pay, special pay, student loan repayment, or other 
        special payment recouped pursuant to paragraph (4)(B)(ii), the 
        Secretary shall--
                (i) in the event the Secretary had previously notified 
            a consumer reporting agency of the existence of the debt 
            subject to the relief granted the member pursuant to this 
            paragraph, notify such consumer reporting agency that such 
            debt was never valid; and
                (ii) if the member is experiencing or has experienced 
            financial hardship as a result of the actions of the United 
            States to obtain recoupment of such debt, assist the 
            member, to the extent practicable, in addressing such 
            financial hardship in accordance with such mechanisms as 
            the Secretary shall develop for purposes of this clause.
            (D) Effect of consumer credit notification.--A consumer 
        reporting agency notified of the invalidity of a debt pursuant 
        to subparagraph (C)(i) may not, after the date of the notice, 
        make any consumer report containing any information relating to 
        the debt.
            (E) Definitions.--In this paragraph, the terms ``consumer 
        reporting agency'' and ``consumer report'' have the meaning 
        given such terms in section 603 of the Fair Credit Reporting 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 1681a).
        (5) Funding.--Amounts for activities under this subsection, 
    including for the conduct of the review required by paragraph (1), 
    for activities in connection with the review, for repayments 
    pursuant to paragraph (4)(B), and for activities under paragraph 
    (4)(C), shall be derived from amounts available for the National 
    Guard of the United States for the State of California.
        (6) Secretary of defense report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than August 1, 2017, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the review conducted pursuant to paragraph (1).
            (B) Elements.--The report under this paragraph shall 
        include the following:
                (i) The total amount of bonus pays, special pays, 
            student loan repayments, and other special pays paid to 
            members of the National Guard of the State of California 
            during the period beginning on September 1, 2001, and 
            ending on December 31, 2015.
                (ii) The number of bonus pay and special pay contracts 
            reviewed pursuant to paragraph (2)(A)(i), and the amounts 
            of such pays paid under each such contract.
                (iii) The number of student loan repayment contracts 
            reviewed pursuant to paragraph (2)(A)(ii), and the amounts 
            of such payments made pursuant to each such contract.
                (iv) The number of other special pay payments reviewed 
            pursuant to paragraph (2)(A)(iii), and the amounts of such 
            payments made to each particular member so paid.
                (v) The number of bonus pay and special pay contracts, 
            student loan repayments, and other special pay payments 
            that were determined pursuant to the review to be paid in 
            error, and the total amount, if any, recouped from each 
            member concerned.
                (vi) Any additional fraud or other ineligibility 
            identified in the course of the review in the payment of 
            bonus pays, special pays, student loan repayments, and 
            other special pays paid to the members of the National 
            Guard of the State of California during the period 
            beginning on September 1, 2001, and ending on December 31, 
            2015.
        (7) Comptroller general report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
        of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
        actions of the National Guard of the State of California 
        relating to the payment of bonus pays, special pays, student 
        loan repayments, and other special pays from 2004 through 2015.
            (B) Elements.--The report under this paragraph shall 
        include the following:
                (i) An assessment whether the National Guard of the 
            State of California and the National Guard Bureau have 
            established policies and procedures that will minimize the 
            chance of improper payment of such pays and repayments and 
            of managerial abuse in the payment of such pays and 
            repayments.
                (ii) An assessment whether the procedures, processes, 
            and resources of the Defense Finance and Accounting Service 
            and the Defense Office of Hearings and Appeals were 
            appropriate to identify and respond to fraud or other 
            ineligibility in connection with the payment of such pays 
            and repayments, and to do so in a timely manner.
                (iii) Any recommendations the Comptroller General 
            considers appropriate to streamline the procedures and 
            processes for the waiver of recoupment of the payment of 
            such pays and repayments by the United States when 
            recoupment is unwarranted.
    SEC. 672. MODIFICATION OF FLAT RATE PER DIEM REQUIREMENT FOR 
      PERSONNEL ON LONG-TERM TEMPORARY DUTY ASSIGNMENTS.
    (a) Modification of Flat Rate.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall take such 
    action as may be necessary to provide that, to the extent that 
    regulations implementing travel and transportation authorities for 
    military and civilian personnel of the Department of Defense impose 
    a flat rate per diem for meals and incidental expenses for 
    authorized travelers on long-term temporary duty assignments that 
    is at a reduced rate compared to the per diem rate otherwise 
    applicable, the Secretary concerned may waive the applicability of 
    such reduced rate and pay such travelers actual expenses up to the 
    full per diem rate for such travel in any case when the Secretary 
    concerned determines that the reduced flat rate per diem for meals 
    and incidental expenses is not sufficient under the circumstances 
    of the temporary duty assignment.
        (2) Applicability.--The Secretary concerned may exercise the 
    authority provided pursuant to paragraph (1) with respect to per 
    diem payable for any day on or after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
    (b) Delegation of Authority.--The authority pursuant to subsection 
(a) may be delegated by the Secretary concerned to an officer at the 
level of lieutenant general or vice admiral, or above. Such authority 
may not be delegated to an officer below that level.
    (c) Waiver of Collection of Receipts.--The Secretary concerned or 
an officer to whom the authority pursuant to subsection (a) is 
delegated pursuant to subsection (b) may waive any requirement for the 
submittal of receipts by travelers on long-term temporary duty 
assignments for the purpose of receiving the full per diem rate 
pursuant to subsection (a) if the Secretary concerned or officer, as 
described in subsection (b), personally certifies that requiring 
travelers to submit receipts for that purpose will negatively affect 
mission performance or create an undue administrative burden.
    (d) Secretary Concerned Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that term in section 101 
of title 37, United States Code.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

        Subtitle A--Reform of TRICARE and Military Health System

Sec. 701. TRICARE Select and other TRICARE reform.
Sec. 702. Reform of administration of the Defense Health Agency and 
          military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 703. Military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 704. Access to urgent and primary care under TRICARE program.
Sec. 705. Value-based purchasing and acquisition of managed care support 
          contracts for TRICARE program.
Sec. 706. Establishment of high performance military-civilian integrated 
          health delivery systems.
Sec. 707. Joint Trauma System.
Sec. 708. Joint Trauma Education and Training Directorate.
Sec. 709. Standardized system for scheduling medical appointments at 
          military treatment facilities.

                 Subtitle B--Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 711. Extended TRICARE program coverage for certain members of the 
          National Guard and dependents during certain disaster response 
          duty.
Sec. 712. Continuity of health care coverage for Reserve Components.
Sec. 713. Provision of hearing aids to dependents of retired members.
Sec. 714. Coverage of medically necessary food and vitamins for certain 
          conditions under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 715. Eligibility of certain beneficiaries under the TRICARE program 
          for participation in the Federal Employees Dental and Vision 
          Insurance Program.
Sec. 716. Applied behavior analysis.
Sec. 717. Evaluation and treatment of veterans and civilians at military 
          treatment facilities.
Sec. 718. Enhancement of use of telehealth services in military health 
          system.
Sec. 719. Authorization of reimbursement by Department of Defense to 
          entities carrying out State vaccination programs for costs of 
          vaccines provided to covered beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle C--Health Care Administration

Sec. 721. Authority to convert military medical and dental positions to 
          civilian medical and dental positions.
Sec. 722. Prospective payment of funds necessary to provide medical care 
          for the Coast Guard.
Sec. 723. Reduction of administrative requirements relating to automatic 
          renewal of enrollments in TRICARE Prime.
Sec. 724. Modification of authority of Uniformed Services University of 
          the Health Sciences to include undergraduate and other medical 
          education and training programs.
Sec. 725. Adjustment of medical services, personnel authorized 
          strengths, and infrastructure in military health system to 
          maintain readiness and core competencies of health care 
          providers.
Sec. 726. Program to eliminate variability in health outcomes and 
          improve quality of health care services delivered in military 
          medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 727. Acquisition strategy for health care professional staffing 
          services.
Sec. 728. Adoption of core quality performance metrics.
Sec. 729. Improvement of health outcomes and control of costs of health 
          care under TRICARE program through programs to involve covered 
          beneficiaries.
Sec. 730. Accountability for the performance of the military health 
          system of certain leaders within the system.
Sec. 731. Establishment of advisory committees for military treatment 
          facilities.

                  Subtitle D--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 741. Extension of authority for joint Department of Defense-
          Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
          Fund and report on implementation of information technology 
          capabilities.
Sec. 742. Pilot program on expansion of use of physician assistants to 
          provide mental health care to members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 743. Pilot program for prescription drug acquisition cost parity in 
          the TRICARE pharmacy benefits program.
Sec. 744. Pilot program on display of wait times at urgent care clinics 
          and pharmacies of military medical treatment facilities.
Sec. 745. Requirement to review and monitor prescribing practices at 
          military treatment facilities of pharmaceutical agents for 
          treatment of post-traumatic stress.
Sec. 746. Department of Defense study on preventing the diversion of 
          opioid medications.
Sec. 747. Incorporation into survey by Department of Defense of 
          questions on experiences of members of the Armed Forces with 
          family planning services and counseling.
Sec. 748. Assessment of transition to TRICARE program by families of 
          members of reserve components called to active duty and 
          elimination of certain charges for such families.
Sec. 749. Oversight of graduate medical education programs of military 
          departments.
Sec. 750. Study on health of helicopter and tiltrotor pilots.
Sec. 751. Comptroller General reports on health care delivery and waste 
          in military health system.

        Subtitle A--Reform of TRICARE and Military Health System

    SEC. 701. TRICARE SELECT AND OTHER TRICARE REFORM.
    (a) Establishment of TRICARE Select.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 1074n the following new section:
``Sec. 1075. TRICARE Select
    ``(a) Establishment.--(1) Not later than January 1, 2018, the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish a self-managed, preferred-provider 
network option under the TRICARE program. Such option shall be known as 
`TRICARE Select'.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall establish TRICARE Select in all areas. 
Under TRICARE Select, eligible beneficiaries will not have restrictions 
on the freedom of choice of the beneficiary with respect to health care 
providers.
    ``(b) Enrollment Eligibility.--(1) The beneficiary categories for 
purposes of eligibility to enroll in TRICARE Select and cost-sharing 
requirements applicable to such category are as follows:
        ``(A) An `active-duty family member' category that consists of 
    beneficiaries who are covered by section 1079 of this title (as 
    dependents of active duty members).
        ``(B) A `retired' category that consists of beneficiaries 
    covered by subsection (c) of section 1086 of this title, other than 
    Medicare-eligible beneficiaries described in subsection (d)(2) of 
    such section.
        ``(C) A `reserve and young adult' category that consists of 
    beneficiaries who are covered by--
            ``(i) section 1076d of this title;
            ``(ii) section 1076e; or
            ``(iii) section 1110b.
    ``(2) A covered beneficiary who elects to participate in TRICARE 
Select shall enroll in such option under section 1099 of this title.
    ``(c) Cost-sharing Requirements.--The cost-sharing requirements 
under TRICARE Select are as follows:
        ``(1) With respect to beneficiaries in the active-duty family 
    member category or the retired category by reason of being a member 
    or former member of the uniformed services who originally enlists 
    or is appointed in the uniformed services on or after January 1, 
    2018, or by reason of being a dependent of such a member, the cost-
    sharing requirements shall be calculated pursuant to subsection 
    (d)(1).
        ``(2)(A) Except as provided by subsection (e), with respect to 
    beneficiaries described in subparagraph (B) in the active-duty 
    family member category or the retired category, the cost-sharing 
    requirements shall be calculated as if the beneficiary were 
    enrolled in TRICARE Extra or TRICARE Standard as if TRICARE Extra 
    or TRICARE Standard, as the case may be, were still being carried 
    out by the Secretary.
        ``(B) Beneficiaries described in this subparagraph are 
    beneficiaries who are eligible to enroll in the TRICARE program by 
    reason of being a member or former member of the uniformed services 
    who originally enlists or is appointed in the uniformed services 
    before January 1, 2018, or by reason of being a dependent of such a 
    member.
        ``(3) With respect to beneficiaries in the reserve and young 
    adult category, the cost-sharing requirements shall be calculated 
    pursuant to subsection (d)(1) as if the beneficiary were in the 
    active-duty family member category or the retired category, as 
    applicable, except that the premiums calculated pursuant to section 
    1076d, 1076e, or 1110b of this title, as the case may be, shall 
    apply instead of any enrollment fee required under this section.
    ``(d) Cost-sharing Amounts for Certain Beneficiaries.--(1) 
Beneficiaries described in subsection (c)(1) enrolled in TRICARE Select 
shall be subject to cost-sharing requirements in accordance with the 
amounts and percentages under the following table during calendar year 
2018 and as such amounts are adjusted under paragraph (2) for 
subsequent years:


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Active-Duty Family Member   (Individual/
 ``TRICARE Select                      Family)                             Retired   (Individual/Family)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual Enrollment   $0                                             $450 / $900
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual deductible               E4 & below: $50 / $100             $150 / $300 Network
                               E5 & above: $150 / $300             $300 / $600 out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Annual   $1,000                                         $3,500
  catastrophic cap
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Outpatient visit   $15 primary care                               $25 primary care
 civilian network
                    $25 specialty care                             $40 specialty care
                    .............................................  .............................................
                    Out of network: 20%                            25% of out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ER visit civilian   $40 network                                    $80 network
           network
                    20% out of network                             25% out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Urgent care   $20 network                                    $40 network
  civilian network
                    20% out of network                             25% out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ambulatory surgery  $25 network                                    $95 network
  civilian network
                    20% out of network                             25% out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ambulance civilian  $15                                            $60
           network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Durable medical   10% of negotiated fee                          20% network
         equipment
  civilian network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Inpatient visit   $60 per network admission                      $175 per admission network
  civilian network
                    .............................................  .............................................
                    20% out of network                             25% out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inpatient skilled   $25 per day network                            $50 per day network
     nursing/rehab
          civilian
                    $50 per day out of network                     Lesser of $300 per day or 20% of billed
                                                                    charges out of network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    ``(2) Each dollar amount expressed as a fixed dollar amount in the 
table set forth in paragraph (1), and the amounts specified under 
paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (e), shall be annually indexed to 
the amount by which retired pay is increased under section 1401a of 
this title, rounded to the next lower multiple of $1. The remaining 
amount above such multiple of $1 shall be carried over to, and 
accumulated with, the amount of the increase for the subsequent year or 
years and made when the aggregate amount of increases carried over 
under this clause for a year is $1 or more.
    ``(3) Enrollment fees, deductible amounts, and catastrophic caps 
under this section are on a calendar-year basis.
    ``(e) Exceptions to Certain Cost-sharing Amounts for Certain 
Beneficiaries Eligible Prior to 2018.--(1) Subject to paragraph (4), 
and in accordance with subsection (d)(2), the Secretary shall establish 
an annual enrollment fee for beneficiaries described in subsection 
(c)(2)(B) in the retired category who enroll in TRICARE Select (other 
than such beneficiaries covered by paragraph (3)). Such enrollment fee 
shall be $150 for an individual and $300 for a family.
    ``(2) For the calendar year for which the Secretary first 
establishes the annual enrollment fee under paragraph (1), the 
Secretary shall adjust the catastrophic cap amount to be $3,500 for 
beneficiaries described in subsection (c)(2)(B) in the retired category 
who are enrolled in TRICARE Select (other than such beneficiaries 
covered by paragraph (3)).
    ``(3) The enrollment fee established pursuant to paragraph (1) and 
the catastrophic cap adjusted under paragraph (2) for beneficiaries 
described in subsection (c)(2)(B) in the retired category shall not 
apply with respect to the following beneficiaries:
        ``(A) Retired members and the family members of such members 
    covered by paragraph (1) of section 1086(c) of this title by reason 
    of being retired under chapter 61 of this title or being a 
    dependent of such a member.
        ``(B) Survivors covered by paragraph (2) of such section 
    1086(c).
    ``(4) The Secretary may not establish an annual enrollment fee 
under paragraph (1) until 90 days has elapsed following the date on 
which the Comptroller General of the United States is required to 
submit the review under paragraph (5).
    ``(5) Not later than February 1, 2020, the Comptroller General of 
the United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the House of Representatives and the Senate a review of the following:
        ``(A) Whether health care coverage for covered beneficiaries 
    has changed since the enactment of this section.
        ``(B) Whether covered beneficiaries are able to obtain 
    appointments for health care according to the access standards 
    established by the Secretary of Defense.
        ``(C) The percent of network providers that accept new patients 
    under the TRICARE program.
        ``(D) The satisfaction of beneficiaries under TRICARE Select.
    ``(f) Exception to Cost-sharing Requirements for TRICARE for Life 
Beneficiaries.--A beneficiary enrolled in TRICARE for Life is subject 
to cost-sharing requirements pursuant to section 1086(d)(3) of this 
title and calculated as if the beneficiary were enrolled in TRICARE 
Standard as if TRICARE Standard were still being carried out by the 
Secretary.
    ``(g) Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed as 
affecting the availability of TRICARE Prime and TRICARE for Life or the 
cost-sharing requirements for TRICARE for Life under section 1086(d)(3) 
of this title.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The terms `active-duty family member category', `retired 
    category', and `reserve and young adult category' mean the 
    respective categories of TRICARE Select enrollment described in 
    subsection (b).
        ``(2) The term `network' means--
            ``(A) with respect to health care services, such services 
        provided to beneficiaries by TRICARE-authorized civilian health 
        care providers who have entered into a contract under this 
        chapter with a contractor under the TRICARE program; and
            ``(B) with respect to providers, civilian health care 
        providers who have agreed to accept a pre-negotiated rate as 
        the total charge for services provided by the provider and to 
        file claims for beneficiaries.
        ``(3) The term `out-of-network' means, with respect to health 
    care services, such services provided by TRICARE-authorized 
    civilian providers who have not entered into a contract under this 
    chapter with a contractor under the TRICARE program.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 1074n, the following 
    new item:

``1075. TRICARE Select.''.

    (b) TRICARE Prime Cost Sharing.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 1075, as added by subsection 
    (a), the following new section:
``Sec. 1075a. TRICARE Prime: cost sharing
    ``(a) Cost-sharing Requirements.--The cost-sharing requirements 
under TRICARE Prime are as follows:
        ``(1) There are no cost-sharing requirements for beneficiaries 
    who are covered by section 1074(a) of this title.
        ``(2) With respect to beneficiaries in the active-duty family 
    member category or the retired category (as described in section 
    1075(b)(1) of this title) by reason of being a member or former 
    member of the uniformed services who originally enlists or is 
    appointed in the uniformed services on or after January 1, 2018, or 
    by reason of being a dependent of such a member, the cost-sharing 
    requirements shall be calculated pursuant to subsection (b)(1).
        ``(3)(A) With respect to beneficiaries described in 
    subparagraph (B) in the active-duty family member category or the 
    retired category (as described in section 1075(b)(1) of this 
    title), the cost-sharing requirements shall be calculated in 
    accordance with the other provisions of this chapter without regard 
    to subsection (b).
        ``(B) Beneficiaries described in this subparagraph are 
    beneficiaries who are eligible to enroll in the TRICARE program by 
    reason of being a member or former member of the uniformed services 
    who originally enlists or is appointed in the uniformed services 
    before January 1, 2018, or by reason of being a dependent of such a 
    member.
    ``(b) Cost-sharing Amounts.--(1) Beneficiaries described in 
subsection (a)(2) enrolled in TRICARE Prime shall be subject to cost-
sharing requirements in accordance with the amounts and percentages 
under the following table during calendar year 2018 and as such amounts 
are adjusted under paragraph (2) for subsequent years:


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       Active-Duty Family Member   (Individual/
  ``TRICARE Prime                      Family)                             Retired   (Individual/Family)
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual Enrollment   $0                                             $350 / $700
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Annual deductible   No                                             No
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Annual   $1,000                                         $3,500
  catastrophic cap
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Outpatient visit   $0                                             $20 primary care
  civilian network
                                                                  ----------------------------------------------
                    .............................................  $30 specialty care
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
ER visit civilian   $0                                             $60 network
           network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Urgent care   $0                                             $30 network
  civilian network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ambulatory surgery  $0                                             $60 network
  civilian network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ambulance civilian  $0                                             $40
           network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Durable medical   $0                                             20% of negotiated fee, network
         equipment
  civilian network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
  Inpatient visit   $0                                             $150 per admission
  civilian network
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Inpatient skilled   $0                                             $30 per day network
     nursing/rehab
          civilian
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 


    ``(2) Each dollar amount expressed as a fixed dollar amount in the 
table set forth in paragraph (1) shall be annually indexed to the 
amount by which retired pay is increased under section 1401a of this 
title, rounded to the next lower multiple of $1. The remaining amount 
above such multiple of $1 shall be carried over to, and accumulated 
with, the amount of the increase for the subsequent year or years and 
made when the aggregate amount of increases carried over under this 
clause for a year is $1 or more.
    ``(3) Enrollment fees, deductible amounts, and catastrophic caps 
under this section are on a calendar-year basis.
    ``(c) Special Rule for Amounts Without Referrals.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (b)(1), the cost-sharing amount for a beneficiary enrolled 
in TRICARE Prime who does not obtain a referral for care under 
paragraph (1) of section 1075f(a) of this title (or a waiver pursuant 
to paragraph (2) of such section for such care) shall be an amount 
equal to 50 percent of the allowed point-of-service charge for such 
care.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 1075, as added by 
    subsection (a), the following new item:

``1075a. TRICARE Prime: cost sharing.''.

    (c) Referrals and Preauthorization for TRICARE Prime.--Section 
1095f of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1095f. TRICARE program: referrals and preauthorizations under 
     TRICARE Prime
    ``(a) Referrals.--(1) Except as provided by paragraph (2), a 
beneficiary enrolled in TRICARE Prime shall be required to obtain a 
referral for care through a designated primary care manager (or other 
care coordinator) prior to obtaining care under the TRICARE program.
    ``(2) The Secretary may waive the referral requirement in paragraph 
(1) in such circumstances as the Secretary may establish for purposes 
of this subsection.
    ``(3) The cost-sharing amounts for a beneficiary enrolled in 
TRICARE Prime who does not obtain a referral for care under paragraph 
(1) (or a waiver pursuant to paragraph (2) for such care) shall be 
determined under section 1075a(c) of this title.
    ``(b) Preauthorization.--A beneficiary enrolled in TRICARE Prime 
shall be required to obtain preauthorization only with respect to a 
referral for the following:
        ``(1) Inpatient hospitalization.
        ``(2) Inpatient care at a skilled nursing facility.
        ``(3) Inpatient care at a rehabilitation facility.
    ``(c) Prohibition Regarding Prior Authorization for Certain 
Referrals.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that no contract for 
managed care support under the TRICARE program includes any requirement 
that a managed care support contractor require a primary care or 
specialty care provider to obtain prior authorization before referring 
a patient to a specialty care provider that is part of the network of 
health care providers or institutions of the contractor.''.
    (d) Enrollment Periods.--
        (1) Annual periods and qualifying events.--Section 1099(b) of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended by amending paragraph (1) 
    to read as follows:
        ``(1) allow covered beneficiaries to elect to enroll in a 
    health care plan, or modify a previous election, from eligible 
    health care plans designated by the Secretary of Defense during--
            ``(A) an annual open enrollment period; and
            ``(B) any period based on a qualifying event experienced by 
        the beneficiary, as determined appropriate by the Secretary; 
        or''.
        (2) Application.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement the 
    initial annual open enrollment period pursuant to section 
    1099(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by paragraph 
    (1), during 2018.
        (3) Grace period during first year.--
            (A) At any time during the one-year period beginning on the 
        date on which the initial annual open enrollment period begins 
        pursuant to section 1099(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
        as amended by paragraph (1), a covered beneficiary may make an 
        election, or modify such an election, described in such 
        section.
            (B) If during such one-year period an individual who is 
        eligible to enroll in the TRICARE program, but does not elect 
        to enroll in such program, receives health care services for an 
        episode of care that would be covered under the TRICARE program 
        if such individual were enrolled in the TRICARE program, the 
        Secretary--
                (i) shall pay the out-of-network fees only for the 
            first episode of care and inform the individual of the 
            opportunity to enroll in the TRICARE program; and
                (ii) may not pay any costs relating to any subsequent 
            episode of care if such individual is not enrolled in the 
            TRICARE program.
        (4) Transition plan.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing on the 
    transition plan of the Department of Defense for implementing an 
    annual enrollment period for TRICARE Prime and TRICARE Select 
    pursuant to section 1099(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as 
    amended by paragraph (1). Such plan shall include strategies to 
    notify each beneficiary of the changes to the TRICARE options and 
    the changes to the enrollment process.
    (e) Termination of TRICARE Standard and TRICARE Extra.--Beginning 
on January 1, 2018, the Secretary of Defense may not carry out TRICARE 
Standard and TRICARE Extra under the TRICARE program. The Secretary 
shall ensure that any individual who is covered under TRICARE Standard 
or TRICARE Extra as of December 31, 2017, enrolls in TRICARE Prime or 
TRICARE Select, as the case may be, as of January 1, 2018, for the 
individual to continue coverage under the TRICARE program.
    (f) Implementation Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than June 1, 2017, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives and the Senate an implementation plan to 
    improve access to health care for TRICARE beneficiaries pursuant to 
    the amendments made by this section.
        (2) Elements.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) ensure that at least 85 percent of the beneficiary 
        population under TRICARE Select is covered by the network by 
        January 1, 2018;
            (B) ensure access standards for appointments for health 
        care that meet or exceed those of high-performing health care 
        systems in the United States, as determined by the Secretary;
            (C) establish mechanisms for monitoring compliance with 
        access standards;
            (D) establish health care provider-to-beneficiary ratios;
            (E) monitor on a monthly basis complaints by beneficiaries 
        with respect to network adequacy and the availability of health 
        care providers;
            (F) establish requirements for mechanisms to monitor the 
        responses to complaints by beneficiaries;
            (G) establish mechanisms to evaluate the quality metrics of 
        the network providers established under section 728;
            (H) include any recommendations for legislative action the 
        Secretary determines necessary to carry out the plan; and
            (I) include any other elements the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    (g) GAO Reviews.--
        (1) Implementation plan.--Not later than December 1, 2017, the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and 
    the Senate a review of the implementation plan of the Secretary 
    under paragraph (1) of subsection (f), including an assessment of 
    the adequacy of the plan in meeting the elements specified in 
    paragraph (2) of such subsection.
        (2) Network.--Not later than September 1, 2017, the Comptroller 
    General shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives and the Senate a review of the network 
    established under TRICARE Extra, including the following:
            (A) An identification of the percent of beneficiaries who 
        are covered by the network.
            (B) An assessment of the extent to which beneficiaries are 
        able to obtain appointments under TRICARE Extra.
            (C) The percent of network providers under TRICARE Extra 
        that accept new patients under the TRICARE program.
            (D) An assessment of the satisfaction of beneficiaries 
        under TRICARE Extra.
    (h) Pilot Program on Incorporation of Value-based Health Care in 
Purchased Care Component of TRICARE Program.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall carry out a pilot program to demonstrate and 
    assess the feasibility of incorporating value-based health care 
    methodology in the purchased care component of the TRICARE program 
    by reducing copayments or cost shares for targeted populations of 
    covered beneficiaries in the receipt of high-value medications and 
    services and the use of high-value providers under such purchased 
    care component, including by exempting certain services from 
    deductible requirements.
        (2) Requirements.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) identify each high-value medication and service that is 
        covered under the purchased care component of the TRICARE 
        program for which a reduction or elimination of the copayment 
        or cost share for such medication or service would encourage 
        covered beneficiaries to use the medication or service;
            (B) reduce or eliminate copayments or cost shares for 
        covered beneficiaries to receive high-value medications and 
        services;
            (C) reduce or eliminate copayments or cost shares for 
        covered beneficiaries to receive health care services from 
        high-value providers;
            (D) credit the amount of any reduction or elimination of a 
        copayment or cost share under subparagraph (B) or (C) for a 
        covered beneficiary towards meeting a deductible applicable to 
        the covered beneficiary in the purchased care component of the 
        TRICARE program to the same extent as if such reduction or 
        elimination had not applied; and
            (E) develop a process to reimburse high-value providers at 
        rates higher than those rates for health care providers that 
        are not high-value providers.
        (3) Report on value-based health care methodology.--Not later 
    than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report that includes the 
    following:
            (A) A list of each high-value medication and service 
        identified under paragraph (2)(A) for which the copayment or 
        cost share amount will be reduced or eliminated under the pilot 
        program to encourage covered beneficiaries to use such 
        medications and services through the purchased care component 
        of the TRICARE program.
            (B) For each high-value medication and service identified 
        under paragraph (2)(A), the amount of the copayment or cost 
        share required under the purchased care component of the 
        TRICARE program and the amount of any reduction or elimination 
        of such copayment or cost share pursuant to the pilot program.
            (C) A description of a plan to identify and communicate to 
        covered beneficiaries, through multiple communication media--
                (i) the list of high-value medications and services 
            described in subparagraph (A); and
                (ii) a list of high-value providers.
            (D) A description of modifications, if any, to existing 
        health care contracts that may be required to implement value-
        based health care methodology in the purchased care component 
        of the TRICARE program under the pilot program and the 
        estimated costs of those contract modifications.
        (4) Comptroller general preliminary review and assessment.--
            (A) Not later than March 1, 2021, the Comptroller General 
        of the United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        review and assessment of the preliminary results of the pilot 
        program.
            (B) The review and assessment required under subparagraph 
        (A) shall include the following:
                (i) An assessment of the extent of the use of value-
            based health care methodology in the purchased care 
            component of the TRICARE program under the pilot program.
                (ii) An analysis demonstrating how reducing or 
            eliminating the copayment or cost share for each high-value 
            medication and service identified under paragraph (2)(A) 
            resulted in--

                    (I) increased adherence to medication regimens;
                    (II) improvement of quality measures;
                    (III) improvement of health outcomes;
                    (IV) reduction of number of emergency room visits 
                or hospitalizations; and
                    (V) enhancement of experience of care for covered 
                beneficiaries.

                (iii) Such recommendations for incentivizing the use of 
            high-value medications and services to improve health 
            outcomes and the experience of care for beneficiaries as 
            the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
        (5) Review and assessment of pilot program.--
            (A) Not later than January 1, 2023, the Secretary shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
        the House of Representatives a review and assessment of the 
        pilot program.
            (B) The review and assessment required under subparagraph 
        (A) shall include the following:
                (i) An assessment of the extent of the use of value-
            based health care methodology in the purchased care 
            component of the TRICARE program under the pilot program.
                (ii) An analysis demonstrating how reducing or 
            eliminating the copayment or cost share for each high-value 
            medication and service identified under paragraph (2)(A) 
            resulted in--

                    (I) increased adherence to medication regimens;
                    (II) improvement of quality measures;
                    (III) improvement of health outcomes; and
                    (IV) enhancement of experience of care for covered 
                beneficiaries.

                (iii) A cost-benefit analysis of the implementation of 
            value-based health care methodology in the purchased care 
            component of the TRICARE program under the pilot program.
                (iv) Such recommendations for incentivizing the use of 
            high-value medications and services to improve health 
            outcomes and the experience of care for covered 
            beneficiaries as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (6) Termination.--The Secretary may not carry out the pilot 
    program after December 31, 2022.
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The terms ``uniformed services'', ``covered beneficiary'', 
    ``TRICARE Extra'', ``TRICARE for Life'', ``TRICARE Prime'', and 
    ``TRICARE Standard'', have the meaning given those terms in section 
    1072 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsection (j).
        (2) The term ``TRICARE Select'' means the self-managed, 
    preferred-provider network option under the TRICARE program 
    established by section 1075 of such title, as added by subsection 
    (a).
        (3) The term ``chronic conditions'' includes diabetes, chronic 
    obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, congestive heart failure, 
    hypertension, history of stroke, coronary artery disease, mood 
    disorders, and such other diseases or conditions as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
        (4) The term ``high-value medications and services'' means 
    prescription medications and clinical services for the management 
    of chronic conditions that the Secretary determines would improve 
    health outcomes and create health value for covered beneficiaries 
    (such as preventive care, primary and specialty care, diagnostic 
    tests, procedures, and durable medical equipment).
        (5) The term ``high-value provider'' means an individual or 
    institutional health care provider that provides health care under 
    the purchased care component of the TRICARE program and that 
    consistently improves the experience of care, meets established 
    quality of care and effectiveness metrics, and reduces the per 
    capita costs of health care.
        (6) The term ``value-based health care methodology'' means a 
    methodology for identifying specific prescription medications and 
    clinical services provided under the TRICARE program for which 
    reduction of copayments, cost shares, or both, would improve the 
    management of specific chronic conditions because of the high value 
    and clinical effectiveness of such medications and services for 
    such chronic conditions.
    (j) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) In general.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended as 
    follows:
            (A) Section 1072 is amended--
                (i) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the 
            following:
        ``(7) The term `TRICARE program' means the various programs 
    carried out by the Secretary of Defense under this chapter and any 
    other provision of law providing for the furnishing of medical and 
    dental care and health benefits to members and former members of 
    the uniformed services and their dependents, including the 
    following health plan options:
            ``(A) TRICARE Prime.
            ``(B) TRICARE Select.
            ``(C) TRICARE for Life.''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(11) The term `TRICARE Extra' means the preferred-provider 
    option of the TRICARE program made available prior to January 1, 
    2018, under which TRICARE Standard beneficiaries may obtain 
    discounts on cost sharing as a result of using TRICARE network 
    providers.
        ``(12) The term `TRICARE Select' means the self-managed, 
    preferred-provider network option under the TRICARE program 
    established by section 1075 of this title.
        ``(13) The term `TRICARE for Life' means the Medicare 
    wraparound coverage option of the TRICARE program made available to 
    the beneficiary by reason of section 1086(d) of this title.
        ``(14) The term `TRICARE Prime' means the managed care option 
    of the TRICARE program.
        ``(15) The term `TRICARE Standard' means the TRICARE program 
    made available prior to January 1, 2018, covering--
            ``(A) medical care to which a dependent described in 
        section 1076(a)(2) of this title is entitled; and
            ``(B) health benefits contracted for under the authority of 
        section 1079(a) of this title and subject to the same rates and 
        conditions as apply to persons covered under that section.''.
            (B) Section 1076d is amended--
                (i) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting after 
            ``coverage.'' the following: ``Such premium shall apply 
            instead of any enrollment fees required under section 1075 
            of this section.''; and
                (ii) in subsection (f), by striking paragraph (2) and 
            inserting the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) The term `TRICARE Reserve Select' means the TRICARE 
    Select self-managed, preferred-provider network option under 
    section 1075 made available to beneficiaries by reason of this 
    section and in accordance with subsection (d)(1).''; and
                (iii) by striking ``TRICARE Standard'' each place it 
            appears (including in the heading of such section) and 
            inserting ``TRICARE Reserve Select''.
            (C) Section 1076e is amended--
                (i) in subsection (d)(1), by inserting after 
            ``coverage.'' the following: ``Such premium shall apply 
            instead of any enrollment fees required under section 1075 
            of this section.''; and
                (ii) in subsection (f), by striking paragraph (2) and 
            inserting the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) The term `TRICARE Retired Reserve' means the TRICARE 
    Select self-managed, preferred-provider network option under 
    section 1075 made available to beneficiaries by reason of this 
    section and in accordance with subsection (d)(1).'';
                (iii) in subsection (b), by striking ``TRICARE Standard 
            coverage at'' and inserting ``TRICARE coverage at''; and
                (iv) by striking ``TRICARE Standard'' each place it 
            appears (including in the heading of such section) and 
            inserting ``TRICARE Retired Reserve''.
            (D) Section 1079a is amended--
                (i) in the section heading, by striking ``CHAMPUS'' and 
            inserting ``TRICARE program''; and
                (ii) by striking ``the Civilian Health and Medical 
            Program of the Uniformed Services'' and inserting ``the 
            TRICARE program''.
            (E) Section 1099(c) is amended by striking paragraph (2) 
        and inserting the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) A plan under the TRICARE program.''.
            (F) Section 1110b(c)(1) is amended by inserting after 
        ``(b).'' the following: ``Such premium shall apply instead of 
        any enrollment fees required under section 1075 of this 
        section.''.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is further 
    amended--
            (A) in the item relating to section 1076d, by striking 
        ``TRICARE Standard'' and inserting ``TRICARE Reserve Select'';
            (B) in the item relating to section 1076e, by striking 
        ``TRICARE Standard'' and inserting ``TRICARE Retired Reserve'';
            (C) in the item relating to section 1079a, by striking 
        ``CHAMPUS'' and inserting ``TRICARE program''; and
            (D) in the item relating to section 1095f, by striking 
        ``for specialty health care'' and inserting ``and 
        preauthorizations under TRICARE Prime''.
        (3) Conforming style.--Any new language inserted or added to 
    title 10, United States Code, by an amendment made by this 
    subsection shall conform to the typeface and typestyle of the 
    matter in which the language is so inserted or added.
    (k) Application.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to the provision of health care under the TRICARE program 
beginning on January 1, 2018.
    SEC. 702. REFORM OF ADMINISTRATION OF THE DEFENSE HEALTH AGENCY AND 
      MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 1073b the following new section:
``Sec. 1073c. Administration of Defense Health Agency and military 
     medical treatment facilities
    ``(a) Administration of Military Medical Treatment Facilities.--(1) 
Beginning October 1, 2018, the Director of the Defense Health Agency 
shall be responsible for the administration of each military medical 
treatment facility, including with respect to--
        ``(A) budgetary matters;
        ``(B) information technology;
        ``(C) health care administration and management;
        ``(D) administrative policy and procedure;
        ``(E) miliary medical construction; and
        ``(F) any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
    appropriate.
    ``(2) The commander of each military medical treatment facility 
shall be responsible for--
        ``(A) ensuring the readiness of the members of the armed forces 
    and civilian employees at such facility; and
        ``(B) furnishing the health care and medical treatment provided 
    at such facility.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall establish within the Defense 
Health Agency a professional staff to provide policy, oversight, and 
direction to carry out subsection (a). The Secretary shall carry out 
this paragraph by appointing the positions specified in subsections (b) 
and (c).
    ``(b) DHA Assistant Director.--(1) There is in the Defense Health 
Agency an Assistant Director for Health Care Administration. The 
Assistant Director shall--
        ``(A) be a career appointee within the Department; and
        ``(B) report directly to the Director of the Defense Health 
    Agency.
    ``(2) The Assistant Director shall be appointed from among 
individuals who have equivalent education and experience as a chief 
executive officer leading a large, civilian health care system.
    ``(3) The Assistant Director shall be responsible for the 
following:
        ``(A) Establishing priorities for health care administration 
    and management.
        ``(B) Establishing policies, procedures, and direction for the 
    provision of direct care at military medical treatment facilities.
        ``(C) Establishing priorities for budgeting matters with 
    respect to the provision of direct care at military medical 
    treatment facilities.
        ``(D) Establishing policies, procedures, and direction for 
    clinic management and operations at military medical treatment 
    facilities.
        ``(E) Establishing priorities for information technology at and 
    between the military medical treatment facilities.
    ``(c) DHA Deputy Assistant Directors.--(1)(A) There is in the 
Defense Health Agency a Deputy Assistant Director for Information 
Operations.
    ``(B) The Deputy Assistant Director for Information Operations 
shall be responsible for policies, management, and execution of 
information technology operations at and between the military medical 
treatment facilities.
    ``(2)(A) There is in the Defense Health Agency a Deputy Assistant 
Director for Financial Operations.
    ``(B) The Deputy Assistant Director for Financial Operations shall 
be responsible for the policy, procedures, and direction of budgeting 
matters and financial management with respect to the provision of 
direct care across the military health system.
    ``(3)(A) There is in the Defense Health Agency a Deputy Assistant 
Director for Health Care Operations.
    ``(B) The Deputy Assistant Director for Health Care Operations 
shall be responsible for the policy, procedures, and direction of 
health care administration in the military medical treatment 
facilities.
    ``(4)(A) There is in the Defense Health Agency a Deputy Assistant 
Director for Medical Affairs.
    ``(B) The Deputy Assistant Director for Medical Affairs shall be 
responsible for policy, procedures, and direction of clinical quality 
and process improvement, patient safety, infection control, graduate 
medical education, clinical integration, utilization review, risk 
management, patient experience, and civilian physician recruiting.
    ``(5) Each Deputy Assistant Director appointed under paragraphs (1) 
through (4) shall report directly to the Assistant Director for Health 
Care Administration.
    ``(d) Certain Responsibilities of DHA Director.--(1) In addition to 
the other duties of the Director of the Defense Health Agency, the 
Director shall coordinate with the Joint Staff Surgeon to ensure that 
the Director most effectively carries out the responsibilities of the 
Defense Health Agency as a combat support agency under section 193 of 
this title.
    ``(2) The responsibilities of the Director shall include the 
following:
        ``(A) Ensuring that the Defense Health Agency meets the 
    operational needs of the commanders of the combatant commands.
        ``(B) Coordinating with the military departments to ensure that 
    the staffing at the military medical treatment facilities supports 
    readiness requirements for members of the armed forces and health 
    care personnel.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `career appointee' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 3132(a)(4) of title 5.
        ``(2) The term `Defense Health Agency' means the Defense Agency 
    established pursuant to Department of Defense Directive 5136.13, or 
    such successor Defense Agency.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 1073b the following new item:

``1073c. Administration of Defense Health Agency and military medical 
          treatment facilities.''.

    (b) Positions of Surgeon General in the Armed Forces.--
        (1) Surgeon general of the army.--Section 3036 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (d), by striking ``(1)'';
            (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (g);
            (C) by inserting after subsection (d) a new subsection (e);
            (D) by transferring paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection 
        (d) to subsection (e), as added by subparagraph (C), and 
        redesignating such paragraphs as paragraphs (1) and (2), 
        respectively; and
            (E) by adding after subsection (e), as added by 
        subparagraph (C), the following new subsection (f):
    ``(f)(1) The Surgeon General serves as the principal advisor to the 
Secretary of the Army and the Chief of Staff of the Army on all health 
and medical matters of the Army, including strategic planning and 
policy development relating to such matters.
    ``(2) The Surgeon General serves as the chief medical advisor of 
the Army to the Director of the Defense Health Agency on matters 
pertaining to military health readiness requirements and safety of 
members of the Army.
    ``(3) The Surgeon General, acting under the authority, direction, 
and control of the Secretary of the Army, shall recruit, organize, 
train, and equip, medical personnel of the Army.''.
        (2) Surgeon general of the navy.--
            (A) In general.--Section 5137 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 5137. Surgeon General: appointment; duties
    ``(a) Appointment.--The Surgeon General of the Navy shall be 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, for a term of four years, from officers on the active-duty list 
of the Navy in any corps of the Navy Medical Department.
    ``(b) Duties.--(1) The Surgeon General serves as the Chief of the 
Bureau of Medicine and Surgery and serves as the principal advisor to 
the Secretary of the Navy and the Chief of Naval Operations on all 
health and medical matters of the Navy and the Marine Corps, including 
strategic planning and policy development relating to such matters.
    ``(2) The Surgeon General serves as the chief medical advisor of 
the Navy and the Marine Corps to the Director of the Defense Health 
Agency on matters pertaining to military health readiness requirements 
and safety of members of the Navy and the Marine Corps.
    ``(3) The Surgeon General, acting under the authority, direction, 
and control of the Secretary of the Navy, shall recruit, organize, 
train, and equip, medical personnel of the Navy and the Marine 
Corps.''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 513 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 5137 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``5137. Surgeon General: appointment; duties.''.

        (3) Surgeon general of the air force.--
            (A) In general.--Section 8036 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 8036. Surgeon General: appointment; duties
    ``(a) Appointment.--The Surgeon General of the Air Force shall be 
appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate from officers of the Air Force who are in the Air Force medical 
department.
    ``(b) Duties.--(1) The Surgeon General serves as the principal 
advisor to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of Staff of the 
Air Force on all health and medical matters of the Air Force, including 
strategic planning and policy development relating to such matters.
    ``(2) The Surgeon General serves as the chief medical advisor of 
the Air Force to the Director of the Defense Health Agency on matters 
pertaining to military health readiness requirements and safety of 
members of the Air Force.
    ``(3) The Surgeon General, acting under the authority, direction, 
and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, shall recruit, organize, 
train, and equip, medical personnel of the Air Force.''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 805 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 8036 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``8036. Surgeon General: appointment; duties.''.

    (c) Appointments.--The Secretary of Defense shall make appointments 
of the positions under section 1073c of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a)--
        (1) by not later than October 1, 2018; and
        (2) by not increasing the number of full-time equivalent 
    employees of the Defense Health Agency.
    (d) Implementation Plan.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
    to implement section 1073c of title 10, United States Code, as 
    added by subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The plan developed under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) How the Secretary will carry out subsection (a) of such 
        section 1073c.
            (B) Efforts to eliminate duplicative activities carried out 
        by the elements of the Defense Health Agency and the military 
        departments.
            (C) Efforts to maximize efficiencies in the activities 
        carried out by the Defense Health Agency.
            (D) How the Secretary will implement such section 1073c in 
        a manner that reduces the number of members of the Armed 
        Forces, civilian employees who are full-time equivalent 
        employees, and contractors relating to the headquarters 
        activities of the military health system, as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
    (e) Reports.--
        (1) Interim report.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives and the Senate a report containing--
            (A) a preliminary draft of the plan developed under 
        subsection (d)(1); and
            (B) any recommendations for legislative actions the 
        Secretary determines necessary to carry out the plan.
        (2) Final report.--Not later than March 1, 2018, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate a report containing the final 
    version of the plan developed under subsection (d)(1).
        (3) Comptroller general reviews.--
            (A) The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
        submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate--
                (i) a review of the preliminary draft of the plan 
            submitted under paragraph (1) by not later than September 
            1, 2017; and
                (ii) a review of the final version of the plan 
            submitted under paragraph (2) by not later than September 
            1, 2018.
            (B) Each review of the plan conducted under subparagraph 
        (A) shall determine whether the Secretary has addressed the 
        required elements for the plan under subsection (d)(2).
    SEC. 703. MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) Administration.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    amended by section 702, is further amended by inserting after 
    section 1073c the following new section:
``Sec. 1073d. Military medical treatment facilities
    ``(a) In General.--To support the medical readiness of the armed 
forces and the readiness of medical personnel, the Secretary of 
Defense, in consultation with the Secretaries of the military 
departments, shall maintain the military medical treatment facilities 
described in subsections (b), (c), and (d).
    ``(b) Medical Centers.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall maintain 
medical centers in areas with a large population of members of the 
armed forces and covered beneficiaries.
    ``(2) Medical centers shall serve as referral facilities for 
members and covered beneficiaries who require comprehensive health care 
services that support medical readiness.
    ``(3) Medical centers shall consist of the following:
        ``(A) Inpatient and outpatient tertiary care facilities that 
    incorporate specialty and subspecialty care.
        ``(B) Graduate medical education programs.
        ``(C) Residency training programs.
        ``(D) Level one or level two trauma care capabilities.
    ``(4) The Secretary may designate a medical center as a regional 
center of excellence for unique and highly specialized health care 
services, including with respect to polytrauma, organ transplantation, 
and burn care.
    ``(c) Hospitals.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall maintain 
hospitals in areas where civilian health care facilities are unable to 
support the health care needs of members of the armed forces and 
covered beneficiaries.
    ``(2) Hospitals shall provide--
        ``(A) inpatient and outpatient health services to maintain 
    medical readiness; and
        ``(B) such other programs and functions as the Secretary 
    determines appropriate.
    ``(3) Hospitals shall consist of inpatient and outpatient care 
facilities with limited specialty care that the Secretary determines--
        ``(A) is cost effective; or
        ``(B) is not available at civilian health care facilities in 
    the area of the hospital.
    ``(d) Ambulatory Care Centers.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
maintain ambulatory care centers in areas where civilian health care 
facilities are able to support the health care needs of members of the 
armed forces and covered beneficiaries.
    ``(2) Ambulatory care centers shall provide the outpatient health 
services required to maintain medical readiness, including with respect 
to partnerships established pursuant to section 706 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
    ``(3) Ambulatory care centers shall consist of outpatient care 
facilities with limited specialty care that the Secretary determines--
        ``(A) is cost effective; or
        ``(B) is not available at civilian health care facilities in 
    the area of the ambulatory care center.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter, as amended by section 702, is further amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 1073c the following 
    new item:

``1073d. Military medical treatment facilities.''.

        (3) Satellite centers.--In addition to the centers of 
    excellence designated under section 1073d(b)(4) of title 10, United 
    States Code, as added by paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense 
    may establish satellite centers of excellence to provide specialty 
    care for certain conditions, including with respect to--
            (A) post-traumatic stress;
            (B) traumatic brain injury; and
            (C) such other conditions as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (b) Exception.--In carrying out section 1073d of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Defense 
may not restructure or realign the infrastructure of, or modify the 
health care services provided by, a military medical treatment facility 
unless the Secretary determines that, if such a restructure, 
realignment, or modification will eliminate the ability of a covered 
beneficiary to access health care services at a military medical 
treatment facility, the covered beneficiary will be able to access such 
health care services through the purchased care component of the 
TRICARE program.
    (c) Update of Study.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration 
    with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall update the 
    report described in paragraph (2) to address the restructuring or 
    realignment of military medical treatment facilities pursuant to 
    section 1073d of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (a), including with respect to any expansions or 
    consolidations of such facilities.
        (2) Report described.--The report described in this paragraph 
    is the Military Health System Modernization Study dated May 29th, 
    2015, required by section 713(a)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
    ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3414).
        (3) Submission.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the updated report under paragraph 
    (1).
    (d) Implementation Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees an implementation plan to 
    restructure or realign the military medical treatment facilities 
    pursuant to section 1073d of title 10, United States Code, as added 
    by subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The implementation plan under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) With respect to each military medical treatment 
        facility--
                (i) whether the facility will be realigned or 
            restructured under the plan;
                (ii) whether the functions of such facility will be 
            expanded or consolidated;
                (iii) the costs of such realignment or restructuring;
                (iv) a description of any changes to the military and 
            civilian personnel assigned to such facility as of the date 
            of the plan;
                (v) a timeline for such realignment or restructuring;
                (vi) the justifications for such realignment or 
            restructuring, including an assessment of the capacity of 
            the civilian health care facilities located near such 
            facility;
                (vii) a comprehensive assessment of the health care 
            services provided at the facility;
                (viii) a description of the current accessibility of 
            covered beneficiaries to health care services provided at 
            the facility and proposed modifications to that 
            accessibility, including with respect to types of services 
            provided;
                (ix) a description of the current availability of 
            urgent care, emergent care, and specialty care at the 
            facility and in the TRICARE provider network in the area in 
            which the facility is located, and proposed modifications 
            to the availability of such care;
                (x) a description of the current level of coordination 
            between the facility and local health care providers in the 
            area in which the facility is located and proposed 
            modifications to such level of coordination; and
                (xi) a description of any unique challenges to 
            providing health care at the facility, with a focus on 
            challenges relating to rural, remote, and insular areas, as 
            appropriate.
            (B) A description of the relocation of the graduate medical 
        education programs and the residency programs.
            (C) A description of the plans to assist members of the 
        Armed Forces and covered beneficiaries with travel and lodging, 
        if necessary, in connection with the receipt of specialty care 
        services at regional centers of excellence designated under 
        subsection (b)(4) of such section 1073d.
            (D) A description of how the Secretary will carry out 
        subsection (b).
        (3) GAO report.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary of Defense submits the report under paragraph (1), 
    the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a review of such report.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 704. ACCESS TO URGENT AND PRIMARY CARE UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1077 the following new section:
``Sec. 1077a. Access to military medical treatment facilities and other 
     facilities
    ``(a) Urgent Care.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
military medical treatment facilities, at locations the Secretary 
determines appropriate, provide urgent care services for members of the 
armed forces and covered beneficiaries until 11:00 p.m. each day.
    ``(2) With respect to areas in which a military medical treatment 
facility covered by paragraph (1) is not located, the Secretary shall 
ensure that members of the armed forces and covered beneficiaries may 
access urgent care clinics through the health care provider network 
under the TRICARE program.
    ``(3) A covered beneficiary may access urgent care services without 
the need for preauthorization for such services.
    ``(4) The Secretary shall--
        ``(A) publish information about changes in access to urgent 
    care under the TRICARE program--
            ``(i) on the primary publicly available Internet website of 
        the Department; and
            ``(ii) on the primary publicly available Internet website 
        of each military medical treatment facility; and
        ``(B) ensure that such information is made available on the 
    publicly available Internet website of each current managed care 
    support contractor that has established a health care provider 
    network under the TRICARE program.
    ``(b) Nurse Advice Line.--The Secretary shall ensure that the nurse 
advice line of the Department directs covered beneficiaries seeking 
access to care to the source of the most appropriate level of health 
care required to treat the medical conditions of the beneficiaries, 
including urgent care services described in subsection (a).
    ``(c) Primary Care Clinics.--(1) The Secretary shall ensure that 
primary care clinics at military medical treatment facilities are 
available for members of the armed forces and covered beneficiaries 
between the hours determined appropriate under paragraph (2), including 
with respect to expanded hours described in subparagraph (B) of such 
paragraph.
    ``(2)(A) The Secretary shall determine the hours that each primary 
care clinic at a military medical treatment facility is available for 
members of the armed forces and covered beneficiaries based on--
        ``(i) the needs of the military medical treatment facility to 
    meet the access standards under the TRICARE Prime program; and
        ``(ii) the primary care utilization patterns of members and 
    covered beneficiaries at such military medical treatment facility.
    ``(B) The primary care clinic hours at a military medical treatment 
facility determined under subparagraph (A) shall include expanded hours 
beyond regular business hours during weekdays and the weekend if the 
Secretary determines under such subparagraph that sufficient demand 
exists at the military medical treatment facility for such expanded 
primary care clinic hours.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1077 the following new item:

``1077a. Access to military medical treatment facilities and other 
          facilities''.

    (c) Implementation.--The Secretary of Defense shall implement--
        (1) subsection (a) of section 1077a of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, by not later than 
    one year after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
        (2) subsection (c) of such section by not later than 180 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 705. VALUE-BASED PURCHASING AND ACQUISITION OF MANAGED CARE 
      SUPPORT CONTRACTS FOR TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) Value-based Health Care.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
    implement value-based incentive programs as part of any contract 
    awarded under chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
    provision of health care services to covered beneficiaries to 
    encourage health care providers under the TRICARE program 
    (including physicians, hospitals, and other persons and facilities 
    involved in providing such health care services) to improve the 
    following:
            (A) The quality of health care provided to covered 
        beneficiaries under the TRICARE program.
            (B) The experience of covered beneficiaries in receiving 
        health care under the TRICARE program.
            (C) The health of covered beneficiaries.
        (2) Value-based incentive programs.--
            (A) Development.--In developing value-based incentive 
        programs under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
                (i) link payments to health care providers under the 
            TRICARE program to improved performance with respect to 
            quality, cost, and reducing the provision of inappropriate 
            care;
                (ii) consider the characteristics of the population of 
            covered beneficiaries affected by the value-based incentive 
            program;
                (iii) consider how the value-based incentive program 
            would affect the receipt of health care under the TRICARE 
            program by such covered beneficiaries;
                (iv) establish or maintain an assurance that such 
            covered beneficiaries will have timely access to health 
            care during the operation of the value-based incentive 
            program;
                (v) ensure that such covered beneficiaries do not incur 
            any additional costs by reason of the value-based incentive 
            program; and
                (vi) consider such other factors as the Secretary 
            considers appropriate.
            (B) Scope and metrics.--With respect to a value-based 
        incentive program developed and implemented under paragraph 
        (1), the Secretary shall ensure that--
                (i) the size, scope, and duration of the value-based 
            incentive program is reasonable in relation to the purpose 
            of the value-based incentive program; and
                (ii) the value-based incentive program relies on the 
            core quality performance metrics adopted pursuant to 
            section 728.
        (3) Use of existing models.--In developing a value-based 
    incentive program under paragraph (1), the Secretary may adapt a 
    value-based incentive program conducted by a TRICARE managed care 
    support contractor, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 
    or any other Federal Government, State government, or commercial 
    health care program.
    (b) Transfer of Contracting Responsibility.--With respect to the 
acquisition of any managed care support contracts under the TRICARE 
program initiated after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall transfer contracting responsibility for the 
solicitation and award of such contracts from the Defense Health Agency 
to the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics.
    (c) Acquisition of Contracts.--
        (1) Strategy.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall develop and implement a strategy to ensure that 
    managed care support contracts under the TRICARE program entered 
    into with private sector entities, other than overseas medical 
    support contracts--
            (A) improve access to health care for covered 
        beneficiaries;
            (B) improve health outcomes for covered beneficiaries;
            (C) improve the quality of health care received by covered 
        beneficiaries;
            (D) enhance the experience of covered beneficiaries in 
        receiving health care; and
            (E) lower per capita costs to the Department of Defense of 
        health care provided to covered beneficiaries.
        (2) Applicability of strategy.--
            (A) In general.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) 
        shall apply to all managed care support contracts under the 
        TRICARE program entered into with private sector entities.
            (B) Modification of contracts.--Contracts entered into 
        prior to the implementation of the strategy required by 
        paragraph (1) shall be modified to ensure consistency with such 
        strategy.
        (3) Local, regional, and national health plans.--In developing 
    and implementing the strategy required by paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall ensure that local, regional, and national health 
    plans have an opportunity to participate in the competition for 
    managed care support contracts under the TRICARE program.
        (4) Continuous innovation.--The strategy required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include incentives for the incorporation of innovative 
    ideas and solutions into managed care support contracts under the 
    TRICARE program through the use of teaming agreements, 
    subcontracts, and other contracting mechanisms that can be used to 
    develop and continuously refresh high-performing networks of health 
    care providers at the national, regional, and local level.
        (5) Elements of strategy.--The strategy required by paragraph 
    (1) shall provide for the following with respect to managed care 
    support contracts under the TRICARE program:
            (A) The maximization of flexibility in the design and 
        configuration of networks of individual and institutional 
        health care providers, including a focus on the development of 
        high-performing networks of health care providers.
            (B) The establishment of an integrated medical management 
        system between military medical treatment facilities and health 
        care providers in the private sector that, when appropriate, 
        effectively coordinates and integrates health care across the 
        continuum of care.
            (C) With respect to telehealth services--
                (i) the maximization of the use of such services to 
            provide real-time interactive communications between 
            patients and health care providers and remote patient 
            monitoring; and
                (ii) the use of standardized payment methods to 
            reimburse health care providers for the provision of such 
            services.
            (D) The use of value-based reimbursement methodologies, 
        including through the use of value-based incentive programs 
        under subsection (a), that transfer financial risk to health 
        care providers and managed care support contractors.
            (E) The use of financial incentives for contractors and 
        health care providers to receive an equitable share in the cost 
        savings to the Department resulting from improvement in health 
        outcomes for covered beneficiaries and the experience of 
        covered beneficiaries in receiving health care.
            (F) The use of incentives that emphasize prevention and 
        wellness for covered beneficiaries receiving health care 
        services from private sector entities to seek such services 
        from high-value health care providers.
            (G) The adoption of a streamlined process for enrollment of 
        covered beneficiaries to receive health care and timely 
        assignment of primary care managers to covered beneficiaries.
            (H) The elimination of the requirement for a referral to be 
        authorized prior receiving specialty care services at a 
        facility of the Department of Defense or through the TRICARE 
        program.
            (I) The use of incentives to encourage covered 
        beneficiaries to participate in medical and lifestyle 
        intervention programs.
        (6) Rural, remote, and isolated areas.--In developing and 
    implementing the strategy required by paragraph (1), the Secretary 
    shall--
            (A) assess the unique characteristics of providing health 
        care services in Alaska, Hawaii, and the territories and 
        possessions of the United States, and in rural, remote, or 
        isolated locations in the contiguous 48 States;
            (B) consider the various challenges inherent in developing 
        robust networks of health care providers in those locations;
            (C) develop a provider reimbursement rate structure in 
        those locations that ensures--
                (i) timely access of covered beneficiaries to health 
            care services;
                (ii) the delivery of high-quality primary and specialty 
            care;
                (iii) improvement in health outcomes for covered 
            beneficiaries; and
                (iv) an enhanced experience of care for covered 
            beneficiaries; and
            (D) ensure that managed care support contracts under the 
        TRICARE program in those locations will--
                (i) establish individual and institutional provider 
            networks that will provide timely access to care for 
            covered beneficiaries, including pursuant to such networks 
            relating to an Indian tribe or tribal organization that is 
            party to the Alaska Native Health Compact with the Indian 
            Health Service or has entered into a contract with the 
            Indian Health Service to provide health care in rural 
            Alaska or other locations in the United States; and
                (ii) deliver high-quality care, better health outcomes, 
            and a better experience of care for covered beneficiaries.
    (d) Report Prior to Certain Contract Modifications.--Not later than 
60 days before the date on which the Secretary of Defense first 
modifies a contract awarded under chapter 55 of title 10, United States 
Code, to implement a value-based incentive program under subsection 
(a), or the managed care support contract acquisition strategy under 
subsection (c), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on any 
implementation plan of the Secretary with respect to such value-based 
incentive program or managed care support contract acquisition 
strategy.
    (e) Comptroller General Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the Secretary submits the report under subsection (d), the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report that assesses the compliance of the 
    Secretary of Defense with the requirements of subsection (a) and 
    subsection (c).
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include an assessment of the following:
            (A) Whether the approach of the Department of Defense for 
        acquiring managed care support contracts under the TRICARE 
        program--
                (i) improves access to care;
                (ii) improves health outcomes;
                (iii) improves the experience of care for covered 
            beneficiaries; and
                (iv) lowers per capita health care costs.
            (B) Whether the Department has, in its requirements for 
        managed care support contracts under the TRICARE program, 
        allowed for--
                (i) maximum flexibility in network design and 
            development;
                (ii) integrated medical management between military 
            medical treatment facilities and network providers;
                (iii) the maximum use of the full range of telehealth 
            services;
                (iv) the use of value-based reimbursement methods that 
            transfer financial risk to health care providers and 
            managed care support contractors;
                (v) the use of prevention and wellness incentives to 
            encourage covered beneficiaries to seek health care 
            services from high-value providers;
                (vi) a streamlined enrollment process and timely 
            assignment of primary care managers;
                (vii) the elimination of the requirement to seek 
            authorization for referrals for specialty care services;
                (viii) the use of incentives to encourage covered 
            beneficiaries to engage in medical and lifestyle 
            intervention programs; and
                (ix) the use of financial incentives for contractors 
            and health care providers to receive an equitable share in 
            cost savings resulting from improvements in health outcomes 
            and the experience of care for covered beneficiaries.
            (C) Whether the Department has considered, in developing 
        requirements for managed care support contracts under the 
        TRICARE program, the following:
                (i) The unique characteristics of providing health care 
            services in Alaska, Hawaii, and the territories and 
            possessions of the United States, and in rural, remote, or 
            isolated locations in the contiguous 48 States;
                (ii) The various challenges inherent in developing 
            robust networks of health care providers in those 
            locations.
                (iii) A provider reimbursement rate structure in those 
            locations that ensures--

                    (I) timely access of covered beneficiaries to 
                health care services;
                    (II) the delivery of high-quality primary and 
                specialty care;
                    (III) improvement in health outcomes for covered 
                beneficiaries; and
                    (IV) an enhanced experience of care for covered 
                beneficiaries.

    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The terms ``covered beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' 
    have the meaning given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, 
    United States Code.
        (2) The term ``high-performing networks of health care 
    providers'' means networks of health care providers that, in 
    addition to such other requirements as the Secretary of Defense may 
    specify for purposes of this section, do the following:
            (A) Deliver high quality health care as measured by leading 
        health quality measurement organizations such as the National 
        Committee for Quality Assurance and the Agency for Healthcare 
        Research and Quality.
            (B) Achieve greater efficiency in the delivery of health 
        care by identifying and implementing within such network 
        improvement opportunities that guide patients through the 
        entire continuum of care, thereby reducing variations in the 
        delivery of health care and preventing medical errors and 
        duplication of medical services.
            (C) Improve population-based health outcomes by using a 
        team approach to deliver case management, prevention, and 
        wellness services to high-need and high-cost patients.
            (D) Focus on preventive care that emphasizes--
                (i) early detection and timely treatment of disease;
                (ii) periodic health screenings; and
                (iii) education regarding healthy lifestyle behaviors.
            (E) Coordinate and integrate health care across the 
        continuum of care, connecting all aspects of the health care 
        received by the patient, including the patient's health care 
        team.
            (F) Facilitate access to health care providers, including--
                (i) after-hours care;
                (ii) urgent care; and
                (iii) through telehealth appointments, when 
            appropriate.
            (G) Encourage patients to participate in making health care 
        decisions.
            (H) Use evidence-based treatment protocols that improve the 
        consistency of health care and eliminate ineffective, wasteful 
        health care practices.
    SEC. 706. ESTABLISHMENT OF HIGH PERFORMANCE MILITARY-CIVILIAN 
      INTEGRATED HEALTH DELIVERY SYSTEMS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary of 
Defense shall establish military-civilian integrated health delivery 
systems through partnerships with other health systems, including local 
or regional health systems in the private sector--
        (1) to improve access to health care for covered beneficiaries;
        (2) to enhance the experience of covered beneficiaries in 
    receiving health care;
        (3) to improve health outcomes for covered beneficiaries;
        (4) to share resources between the Department of Defense and 
    the private sector, including such staff, equipment, and training 
    assets as may be required to carry out such integrated health 
    delivery systems;
        (5) to maintain services within military treatment facilities 
    that are essential for the maintenance of operational medical force 
    readiness skills of health care providers of the Department; and
        (6) to provide members of the Armed Forces with additional 
    training opportunities to maintain such readiness skills.
    (b) Elements of Systems.--Each military-civilian integrated health 
delivery system established under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) deliver high quality health care as measured by leading 
    national health quality measurement organizations;
        (2) achieve greater efficiency in the delivery of health care 
    by identifying and implementing within each such system improvement 
    opportunities that guide patients through the entire continuum of 
    care, thereby reducing variations in the delivery of health care 
    and preventing medical errors and duplication of medical services;
        (3) improve population-based health outcomes by using a team 
    approach to deliver case management, prevention, and wellness 
    services to high-need and high-cost patients;
        (4) focus on preventive care that emphasizes--
            (A) early detection and timely treatment of disease;
            (B) periodic health screenings; and
            (C) education regarding healthy lifestyle behaviors;
        (5) coordinate and integrate health care across the continuum 
    of care, connecting all aspects of the health care received by the 
    patient, including the patient's health care team;
        (6) facilitate access to health care providers, including--
            (A) after-hours care;
            (B) urgent care; and
            (C) through telehealth appointments, when appropriate;
        (7) encourage patients to participate in making health care 
    decisions;
        (8) use evidence-based treatment protocols that improve the 
    consistency of health care and eliminate ineffective, wasteful 
    health care practices; and
        (9) improve coordination of behavioral health services with 
    primary health care.
    (c) Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--In establishing military-civilian integrated 
    health delivery systems through partnerships under subsection (a), 
    the Secretary shall seek to enter into memoranda of understanding 
    or contracts between military treatment facilities and health 
    maintenance organizations, health care centers of excellence, 
    public or private academic medical institutions, regional health 
    organizations, integrated health systems, accountable care 
    organizations, and such other health systems as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
        (2) Private sector care.--Memoranda of understanding and 
    contracts entered into under paragraph (1) shall ensure that 
    covered beneficiaries are eligible to enroll in and receive medical 
    services under the private sector components of military-civilian 
    integrated health delivery systems established under subsection 
    (a).
        (3) Value-based reimbursement methodologies.--The Secretary 
    shall incorporate value-based reimbursement methodologies, such as 
    capitated payments, bundled payments, or pay for performance, into 
    memoranda of understanding and contracts entered into under 
    paragraph (1) to reimburse entities for medical services provided 
    to covered beneficiaries under such memoranda of understanding and 
    contracts.
        (4) Quality of care.--Each memorandum of understanding or 
    contract entered into under paragraph (1) shall ensure that the 
    quality of services received by covered beneficiaries through a 
    military-civilian integrated health delivery system under such 
    memorandum of understanding or contract is at least comparable to 
    the quality of services received by covered beneficiaries from a 
    military treatment facility.
    (d) Covered Beneficiary Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered beneficiary'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 
of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 707. JOINT TRAUMA SYSTEM.
    (a) Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and 
    the Senate an implementation plan to establish a Joint Trauma 
    System within the Defense Health Agency that promotes improved 
    trauma care to members of the Armed Forces and other individuals 
    who are eligible to be treated for trauma at a military medical 
    treatment facility.
        (2) Implementation.--The Secretary shall implement the plan 
    under paragraph (1) after a 90-day period has elapsed following the 
    date on which the Comptroller General of the United States is 
    required to submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
    of Representatives and the Senate the review under subsection (c). 
    In implementing such plan, the Secretary shall take into account 
    any recommendation made by the Comptroller General under such 
    review.
    (b) Elements.--The Joint Trauma System described in subsection 
(a)(1) shall include the following elements:
        (1) Serve as the reference body for all trauma care provided 
    across the military health system.
        (2) Establish standards of care for trauma services provided at 
    military medical treatment facilities.
        (3) Coordinate the translation of research from the centers of 
    excellence of the Department of Defense into standards of clinical 
    trauma care.
        (4) Coordinate the incorporation of lessons learned from the 
    trauma education and training partnerships pursuant to section 708 
    into clinical practice.
    (c) Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which the 
Secretary submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate the implementation plan under subsection 
(a)(1), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
such committees a review of such plan to determine if each element 
under subsection (b) is included in such plan.
    (d) Review of Military Trauma System.--In establishing a Joint 
Trauma System, the Secretary of Defense may seek to enter into an 
agreement with a non-governmental entity with subject matter experts 
to--
        (1) conduct a system-wide review of the military trauma system, 
    including a comprehensive review of combat casualty care and 
    wartime trauma systems during the period beginning on January 1, 
    2001, and ending on the date of the review, including an assessment 
    of lessons learned to improve combat casualty care in future 
    conflicts; and
        (2) make publicly available a report containing such review and 
    recommendations to establish a comprehensive trauma system for the 
    Armed Forces.
    SEC. 708. JOINT TRAUMA EDUCATION AND TRAINING DIRECTORATE.
    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
Joint Trauma Education and Training Directorate (in this section 
referred to as the ``Directorate'') to ensure that the traumatologists 
of the Armed Forces maintain readiness and are able to be rapidly 
deployed for future armed conflicts. The Secretary shall carry out this 
section in collaboration with the Secretaries of the military 
departments.
    (b) Duties.--The duties of the Directorate are as follows:
        (1) To enter into and coordinate the partnerships under 
    subsection (c).
        (2) To establish the goals of such partnerships necessary for 
    trauma teams led by traumatologists to maintain professional 
    competency in trauma care.
        (3) To establish metrics for measuring the performance of such 
    partnerships in achieving such goals.
        (4) To develop methods of data collection and analysis for 
    carrying out paragraph (3).
        (5) To communicate and coordinate lessons learned from such 
    partnerships with the Joint Trauma System established under section 
    707.
        (6) To develop standardized combat casualty care instruction 
    for all members of the Armed Forces, including the use of 
    standardized trauma training platforms.
        (7) To develop a comprehensive trauma care registry to compile 
    relevant data from point of injury through rehabilitation of 
    members of the Armed Forces.
        (8) To develop quality of care outcome measures for combat 
    casualty care.
        (9) To direct the conduct of research on the leading causes of 
    morbidity and mortality of members of the Armed Forces in combat.
    (c) Partnerships.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary may enter into partnerships with 
    civilian academic medical centers and large metropolitan teaching 
    hospitals that have level I civilian trauma centers to provide 
    integrated combat trauma teams, including forward surgical teams, 
    with maximum exposure to a high volume of patients with critical 
    injuries.
        (2) Trauma teams.--Under the partnerships entered into with 
    civilian academic medical centers and large metropolitan teaching 
    hospitals under paragraph (1), trauma teams of the Armed Forces led 
    by traumatologists of the Armed Forces shall embed within the 
    trauma centers of the medical centers and hospitals on an enduring 
    basis.
        (3) Selection.--The Secretary shall select civilian academic 
    medical centers and large metropolitan teaching hospitals to enter 
    into partnerships under paragraph (1) based on patient volume, 
    acuity, and other factors the Secretary determines necessary to 
    ensure that the traumatologists of the Armed Forces and the 
    associated clinical support teams have adequate and continuous 
    exposure to critically injured patients.
        (4) Consideration.--In entering into partnerships under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary may consider the experiences and 
    lessons learned by the military departments that have entered into 
    memoranda of understanding with civilian medical centers for trauma 
    care.
    (d) Personnel Management Plan.--
        (1) Plan.--The Secretary shall establish a personnel management 
    plan for the following wartime medical specialties:
            (A) Emergency medical services and prehospital care.
            (B) Trauma surgery.
            (C) Critical care.
            (D) Anesthesiology.
            (E) Emergency medicine.
            (F) Other wartime medical specialties the Secretary 
        determines appropriate for purposes of the plan.
        (2) Elements.--The elements of the plan established under 
    paragraph (1) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
            (A) An accession plan for the number of qualified medical 
        personnel to maintain wartime medical specialties on an annual 
        basis in order to maintain the required number of trauma teams 
        as determined by the Secretary.
            (B) The number of positions required in each such medical 
        specialty.
            (C) Crucial organizational and operational assignments for 
        personnel in each such medical specialty.
            (D) Career pathways for personnel in each such medical 
        specialty.
        (3) Implementation.--The Secretaries of the military 
    departments shall carry out the plan established under paragraph 
    (1).
    (e) Implementation Plan.--Not later than July 1, 2017, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the House of Representatives and the Senate an implementation plan 
for establishing the Joint Trauma Education and Training Directorate 
under subsection (a), entering into partnerships under subsection (c), 
and establishing the plan under subsection (d).
    (f) Level I Civilian Trauma Center Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``level I civilian trauma center'' means a comprehensive regional 
resource that is a tertiary care facility central to the trauma system 
and is capable of providing total care for every aspect of injury from 
prevention through rehabilitation.
    SEC. 709. STANDARDIZED SYSTEM FOR SCHEDULING MEDICAL APPOINTMENTS 
      AT MILITARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) Standardized System.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall implement a system for scheduling medical 
    appointments at military treatment facilities that is standardized 
    throughout the military health system to enable timely access to 
    care for covered beneficiaries.
        (2) Lack of variance.--The system implemented under paragraph 
    (1) shall ensure that the appointment scheduling processes and 
    procedures used within the military health system do not vary among 
    military treatment facilities.
    (b) Sole System.--Upon implementation of the system under 
subsection (a), no military treatment facility may use an appointment 
scheduling process other than such system.
    (c) Scheduling of Appointments.--
        (1) In general.--Under the system implemented under subsection 
    (a), each military treatment facility shall use a centralized 
    appointment scheduling capability for covered beneficiaries that 
    includes the ability to schedule appointments manually via 
    telephone as described in paragraph (2) or automatically via a 
    device that is connected to the Internet through an online 
    scheduling system described in paragraph (3).
        (2) Telephone appointment process.--
            (A) In general.--In the case of a covered beneficiary who 
        contacts a military treatment facility via telephone to 
        schedule an appointment under the system implemented under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall implement standard 
        processes to ensure that the needs of the covered beneficiary 
        are met during the first such telephone call.
            (B) Matters included.--The standard processes implemented 
        under subparagraph (A) shall include the following:
                (i) The ability of a covered beneficiary, during the 
            telephone call to schedule an appointment, to also schedule 
            wellness visits or follow-up appointments during the 180-
            day period beginning on the date of the request for the 
            visit or appointment.
                (ii) The ability of a covered beneficiary to indicate 
            the process through which the covered beneficiary prefers 
            to be reminded of future appointments, which may include 
            reminder telephone calls, emails, or cellular text messages 
            to the covered beneficiary at specified intervals prior to 
            appointments.
        (3) Online system.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall implement an online 
        scheduling system that is available 24 hours per day, seven 
        days per week, for purposes of scheduling appointments under 
        the system implemented under subsection (a).
            (B) Capabilities of online system.--The online scheduling 
        system implemented under subparagraph (A) shall have the 
        following capabilities:
                (i) An ability to send automated email and text message 
            reminders, including repeat reminders, to patients 
            regarding upcoming appointments.
                (ii) An ability to store appointment records to ensure 
            rapid access by medical personnel to appointment data.
    (d) Standards for Productivity of Health Care Providers.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall implement standards for 
    the productivity of health care providers at military treatment 
    facilities.
        (2) Matters considered.--In developing standards under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider--
            (A) civilian benchmarks for measuring the productivity of 
        health care providers;
            (B) the optimal number of medical appointments for each 
        health care provider that would be required, as determined by 
        the Secretary, to maintain access of covered beneficiaries to 
        health care from the Department; and
            (C) the readiness requirements of the Armed Forces.
    (e) Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2017, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
    the House of Representatives a comprehensive plan to implement the 
    system required under subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The plan required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description of the manual appointment process to be 
        used at military treatment facilities under the system required 
        under subsection (a).
            (B) A description of the automated appointment process to 
        be used at military treatment facilities under such system.
            (C) A timeline for the full implementation of such system 
        throughout the military health system.
    (f) Briefing.--Not later than February 1, 2018, the Secretary shall 
brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on the implementation of the system required under 
subsection (a) and the standards for the productivity of health care 
providers required under subsection (d).
    (g) Report on Missed Appointments.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1 each year, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on 
    the total number of medical appointments at military treatment 
    facilities for which a covered beneficiary failed to appear without 
    prior notification during the one-year period preceding the 
    submittal of the report.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include 
    for each military treatment facility the following:
            (A) An identification of the top five reasons for a covered 
        beneficiary missing an appointment.
            (B) A comparison of the number of missed appointments for 
        specialty care versus primary care.
            (C) An estimate of the cost to the Department of Defense of 
        missed appointments.
            (D) An assessment of strategies to reduce the number of 
        missed appointments.
    (h) Covered Beneficiary Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered beneficiary'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 
of title 10, United States Code.

                 Subtitle B--Other Health Care Benefits

    SEC. 711. EXTENDED TRICARE PROGRAM COVERAGE FOR CERTAIN MEMBERS OF 
      THE NATIONAL GUARD AND DEPENDENTS DURING CERTAIN DISASTER 
      RESPONSE DUTY.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1076e the following new section:
``Sec. 1076f. TRICARE program: extension of coverage for certain 
     members of the National Guard and dependents during certain 
     disaster response duty
    ``(a) Extended Coverage.--During a period in which a member of the 
National Guard is performing disaster response duty, the member may be 
treated as being on active duty for a period of more than 30 days for 
purposes of the eligibility of the member and dependents of the member 
for health care benefits under the TRICARE program if such period 
immediately follows a period in which the member served on full-time 
National Guard duty under section 502(f) of title 32, including 
pursuant to chapter 9 of such title, unless the Governor of the State 
(or, with respect to the District of Columbia, the mayor of the 
District of Columbia) determines that such extended eligibility is not 
in the best interest of the member or the State.
    ``(b) Contribution by State.--(1) The Secretary shall charge a 
State for the costs of providing coverage under the TRICARE program to 
members of the National Guard of the State and the dependents of the 
members pursuant to subsection (a). Such charges shall be paid from the 
funds of the State or from any other non-Federal funds.
    ``(2) Any amounts received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) 
shall be credited to the appropriation available for the Defense Health 
Program Account under section 1100 of this title, shall be merged with 
sums in such Account that are available for the fiscal year in which 
collected, and shall be available under subsection (b) of such section, 
including to carry out subsection (a) of this section.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `disaster response duty' means duty performed by 
    a member of the National Guard in State status pursuant to an 
    emergency declaration by the Governor of the State (or, with 
    respect to the District of Columbia, the mayor of the District of 
    Columbia) in response to a disaster or in preparation for an 
    imminent disaster.
        ``(2) The term `State' means each of the several States, the 
    District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any 
    territory or possession of the United States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
1076e the following new item:

``1076f. TRICARE program: extension of coverage for certain members of 
          the National Guard and dependents during certain disaster 
          response duty.''.
    SEC. 712. CONTINUITY OF HEALTH CARE COVERAGE FOR RESERVE 
      COMPONENTS.
    (a) Study.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study 
    of options for providing health care coverage that improves the 
    continuity of health care provided to current and former members of 
    the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve who are not--
            (A) serving on active duty;
            (B) eligible for the Transitional Assistance Management 
        Program under section 1145 of title 10, United States Code; or
            (C) eligible for the Federal Employees Health Benefit 
        Program.
        (2) Elements.--The study under paragraph (1) shall address the 
    following:
            (A) Whether to allow current and former members of the 
        Selected Reserve to participate in the Federal Employees Health 
        Benefit Program.
            (B) Whether to pay a stipend to current and former members 
        to continue coverage in a health plan obtained by the member.
            (C) Whether to allow current and former members to 
        participate in the TRICARE program under section 1076d of title 
        10, United States Code.
            (D) Whether to amend section 1076f of title 10, United 
        States Code, as added by section 711, to require the extension 
        of TRICARE program coverage for members of the National Guard 
        assigned to Homeland Response Force Units mobilized for a State 
        emergency pursuant to chapter 9 of title 32, United States 
        Code.
             (E) The findings and recommendations under section 748.
            (F) Any other options for providing health care coverage to 
        current and former members of the Selected Reserve the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
        (3) Consultation.--In carrying out the study under paragraph 
    (1), the Secretary shall consult with, and obtain the opinions of, 
    current and former members of the Selected Reserve, including the 
    leadership of the Selected Reserve.
        (4) Submission.--
            (A) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on the study under 
        paragraph (1).
            (B) Matters included.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include the following:
                (i) A description of the health care coverage options 
            addressed by the Secretary under paragraph (2).
                (ii) Identification of such health care coverage option 
            that the Secretary recommends as the best option.
                (iii) The justifications for such recommended best 
            option.
                (iv) The number and proportion of the current and 
            former members of the Selected Reserve projected to 
            participate in such recommended best option.
                (v) A determination of the appropriate cost sharing for 
            such recommended best option with respect to the percentage 
            contribution as a monthly premium for current members of 
            the Selected Reserve.
                (vi) An estimate of the cost of implementing such 
            recommended best option.
                (vii) Any legislative language required to implement 
            such recommended best option.
    (b) Pilot Program.--
        (1) Authorization.--The Secretary of Defense and the Director 
    may jointly carry out a pilot program, at the election of the 
    Secretary, under which the Director provides commercial health 
    insurance coverage to eligible reserve component members who enroll 
    in a health benefits plan under paragraph (4) as an individual, for 
    self plus one coverage, or for self and family coverage.
        (2) Elements.--The pilot program shall--
            (A) provide for enrollment by eligible reserve component 
        members, at the election of the member, in a health benefits 
        plan under paragraph (4) during an open enrollment period 
        established by the Director for purposes of this subsection;
            (B) include a variety of national and regional health 
        benefits plans that--
                (i) meet the requirements of this subsection;
                (ii) are broadly representative of the health benefits 
            plans available in the commercial market; and
                (iii) do not contain unnecessary restrictions, as 
            determined by the Director; and
            (C) offer a sufficient number of health benefits plans in 
        order to provide eligible reserve component beneficiaries with 
        an ample choice of health benefits plans, as determined by the 
        Director.
        (3) Duration.--If the Secretary elects to carry out the pilot 
    program, the Secretary and the Director shall carry out the pilot 
    program for not less than five years.
        (4) Health benefits plans.--
            (A) In general.--In providing health insurance coverage 
        under the pilot program, the Director shall contract with 
        qualified carriers for a variety of health benefits plans.
            (B) Description of plans.--Health benefits plans contracted 
        for under this subsection--
                (i) may vary by type of plan design, covered benefits, 
            geography, and price;
                (ii) shall include maximum limitations on out-of-pocket 
            expenses paid by an eligible reserve component beneficiary 
            for the health care provided; and
                (iii) may not exclude an eligible reserve component 
            member who chooses to enroll.
            (C) Quality of plans.--The Director shall ensure that each 
        health benefits plan offered under this subsection offers a 
        high degree of quality, as determined by criteria that 
        include--
                (i) access to an ample number of medical providers, as 
            determined by the Director;
                (ii) adherence to industry-accepted quality 
            measurements, as determined by the Director;
                (iii) access to benefits described in paragraph (5), 
            including ease of referral for health care services; and
                (iv) inclusion in the services covered by the plan of 
            advancements in medical treatments and technology as soon 
            as practicable in accordance with generally accepted 
            standards of medicine.
        (5) Benefits.--A health benefits plan offered by the Director 
    under this subsection shall include, at a minimum, the following 
    benefits:
            (A) The health care benefits provided under chapter 55 of 
        title 10, United States Code, excluding pharmaceutical, dental, 
        and extended health care option benefits.
            (B) Such other benefits as the Director determines 
        appropriate.
        (6) Care at facilities of uniformed services.--
            (A) In general.--If an eligible reserve component 
        beneficiary receives benefits described in paragraph (5) at a 
        facility of the uniformed services, the health benefits plan 
        under which the beneficiary is covered shall be treated as a 
        third-party payer under section 1095 of title 10, United States 
        Code, and shall pay charges for such benefits as determined by 
        the Secretary.
            (B) Military medical treatment facilities.--The Secretary, 
        in consultation with the Director--
                (i) may contract with qualified carriers with which the 
            Director has contracted under paragraph (4) to provide 
            health insurance coverage for health care services provided 
            at military treatment facilities under this subsection; and
                (ii) may receive payments under section 1095 of title 
            10, United States Code, from qualified carriers for health 
            care services provided at military medical treatment 
            facilities under this subsection.
        (7) Special rule relating to active duty period.--
            (A) In general.--An eligible reserve component member may 
        not receive benefits under a health benefits plan under this 
        subsection during any period in which the member is serving on 
        active duty for more than 30 days.
            (B) Treatment of dependents.--Subparagraph (A) does not 
        affect the coverage under a health benefits plan of any 
        dependent of an eligible reserve component member.
        (8) Eligibility for federal employees health benefits 
    program.--An individual is not eligible to enroll in or be covered 
    under a health benefits plan under this subsection if the 
    individual is eligible to enroll in a health benefits plan under 
    the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program.
        (9) Cost sharing.--
            (A) Responsibility for payment.--
                (i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), an 
            eligible reserve component member shall pay an annual 
            premium amount calculated under subparagraph (B) for 
            coverage under a health benefits plan under this subsection 
            and additional amounts described in subparagraph (C) for 
            health care services in connection with such coverage.
                (ii) Active duty period.--

                    (I) In general.--During any period in which an 
                eligible reserve component member is serving on active 
                duty for more than 30 days, the eligible reserve 
                component member is not responsible for paying any 
                premium amount under subparagraph (B) or additional 
                amounts under subparagraph (C).
                    (II) Coverage of dependents.--With respect to a 
                dependent of an eligible reserve component member that 
                is covered under a health benefits plan under this 
                subsection, during any period described in subclause 
                (I) with respect to the member, the Secretary shall, on 
                behalf of the dependent, pay 100 percent of the total 
                annual amount of a premium for coverage of the 
                dependent under the plan and such cost-sharing amounts 
                as may be applicable under the plan.

            (B) Premium amount.--
                (i) In general.--The annual premium calculated under 
            this subparagraph is an amount equal to 28 percent of the 
            total annual amount of a premium under the health benefits 
            plan selected.
                (ii) Types of coverage.--The premium amounts calculated 
            under this subparagraph shall include separate calculations 
            for--

                    (I) coverage as an individual;
                    (II) self plus one coverage; and
                    (III) self and family coverage.

            (C) Additional amounts.--The additional amounts described 
        in this subparagraph with respect to an eligible reserve 
        component member are such cost-sharing amounts as may be 
        applicable under the health benefits plan under which the 
        member is covered.
        (10) Contracting.--
            (A) In general.--In contracting for health benefits plans 
        under paragraph (4), the Director may contract with qualified 
        carriers in a manner similar to the manner in which the 
        Director contracts with carriers under section 8902 of title 5, 
        United States Code, including that--
                (i) a contract under this subsection shall be for a 
            uniform term of not less than one year, but may be made 
            automatically renewable from term to term in the absence of 
            notice of termination by either party;
                (ii) a contract under this subsection shall contain a 
            detailed statement of benefits offered and shall include 
            such maximums, limitations, exclusions, and other 
            definitions of benefits determined by the Director in 
            accordance with paragraph (5);
                (iii) a contract under this subsection shall ensure 
            that an eligible reserve component member who is eligible 
            to enroll in a health benefits plan pursuant to such 
            contract is able to enroll in such plan; and
                (iv) the terms of a contract under this subsection 
            relating to the nature, provision, or extent of coverage or 
            benefits (including payments with respect to benefits) 
            shall supersede and preempt any conflicting State or local 
            law.
            (B) Evaluation of financial solvency.--The Director shall 
        perform a thorough evaluation of the financial solvency of an 
        insurance carrier before entering into a contract with the 
        insurance carrier under subparagraph (A).
        (11) Recommendations and data.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
        with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall provide 
        recommendations and data to the Director with respect to--
                (i) matters involving military medical treatment 
            facilities;
                (ii) matters unique to eligible reserve component 
            members and dependents of such members; and
                (iii) such other strategic guidance necessary for the 
            Director to administer this subsection as the Secretary of 
            Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Homeland 
            Security, considers appropriate.
            (B) Limitation on implementation.--The Director shall not 
        implement any recommendation provided by the Secretary of 
        Defense under subparagraph (A) if the Director determines that 
        the implementation of the recommendation would result in 
        eligible reserve components beneficiaries receiving less 
        generous health benefits under this subsection than the health 
        benefits commonly available to individuals under the Federal 
        Employees Health Benefits Program during the same period.
        (12) Transmission of information.--On an annual basis during 
    each year in which the pilot program is carried out, the Director 
    shall provide the Secretary with information on the use of health 
    care benefits under the pilot program, including--
            (A) the number of eligible reserve component beneficiaries 
        participating in the pilot program, listed by the health 
        benefits plan under which the beneficiary is covered;
            (B) the number of health benefits plans offered under the 
        pilot program and a description of each such plan; and
            (C) the costs of the health care provided under the plans.
        (13) Funding.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and the Director 
        shall jointly establish an appropriate mechanism to fund the 
        pilot program.
            (B) Availability of amounts.--Amounts shall be made 
        available to the Director pursuant to the mechanism established 
        under subparagraph (A), without fiscal year limitation--
                (i) for payments to health benefits plans under this 
            subsection; and
                (ii) to pay the costs of administering this subsection.
        (14) Reports.--
            (A) Initial reports.--Not later than one year after the 
        date on which the Secretary establishes the pilot program, and 
        annually thereafter for the following three years, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
        pilot program.
            (B) Matters included.--The report under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include, with respect to the year covered by the report, 
        the following:
                (i) The number of eligible reserve component 
            beneficiaries participating in the pilot program, listed by 
            the health benefits plan under which the beneficiary is 
            covered.
                (ii) The number of health benefits plans offered under 
            the pilot program.
                (iii) The cost of the pilot program to the Department 
            of Defense.
                (iv) The estimated cost savings, if any, to the 
            Department of Defense.
                (v) The average cost to the eligible reserve component 
            beneficiary.
                (vi) The effect of the pilot program on the medical 
            readiness of the members of the reserve components.
                (vii) The effect of the pilot program on access to 
            health care for members of the reserve components.
            (C) Final report.--Not later than 180 days before the date 
        on which the pilot program will terminate pursuant to paragraph 
        (3), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
        Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report on the pilot program that includes--
                (i) the matters specified under subparagraph (B); and
                (ii) the recommendation of the Secretary regarding 
            whether to make the pilot program permanent or to terminate 
            the pilot program.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Director'' means the Director of the Office of 
    Personnel Management.
        (2) The term ``eligible reserve component beneficiary'' means 
    an eligible reserve component member enrolled in, or a dependent of 
    such a member described in subparagraph (A), (D), or (I) of section 
    1072(2) of title 10, United States Code, covered under, a health 
    benefits plan under subsection (b).
        (3) The term ``eligible reserve component member'' means a 
    member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve of an Armed 
    Force.
        (4) The term ``extended health care option'' means the program 
    of extended benefits under subsections (d) and (e) of section 1079 
    of title 10, United States Code.
        (5) The term ``Federal Employees Health Benefits Program'' 
    means the health insurance program under chapter 89 of title 5, 
    United States Code.
        (6) The term ``qualified carrier'' means an insurance carrier 
    that is licensed to issue group health insurance in any State, the 
    District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
    Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and any 
    territory or possession of the United States.
    SEC. 713. PROVISION OF HEARING AIDS TO DEPENDENTS OF RETIRED 
      MEMBERS.
    Section 1077 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(16), by striking ``A hearing aid'' and 
    inserting ``Except as provided by subsection (g), a hearing aid''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) In addition to the authority to provide a hearing aid under 
subsection (a)(16), hearing aids may be sold under this section to 
dependents of former members of the uniformed services at cost to the 
United States.''.
    SEC. 714. COVERAGE OF MEDICALLY NECESSARY FOOD AND VITAMINS FOR 
      CERTAIN CONDITIONS UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Section 1077 of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 713, is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting before the period at the 
        end the following: ``, including, in accordance with subsection 
        (g), medically necessary vitamins''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(18) In accordance with subsection (g), medically necessary 
    food and the medical equipment and supplies necessary to administer 
    such food (other than durable medical equipment and supplies).''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h)(1) Vitamins that may be provided under subsection (a)(3) are 
vitamins used for the management of a covered disease or condition 
pursuant to the prescription, order, or recommendation (as applicable) 
of a physician or other health care professional qualified to make such 
prescription, order, or recommendation.
    ``(2) Medically necessary food that may be provided under 
subsection (a)(18)--
        ``(A) is food, including a low protein modified food product or 
    an amino acid preparation product, that is--
            ``(i) furnished pursuant to the prescription, order, or 
        recommendation (as applicable) of a physician or other health 
        care professional qualified to make such prescription, order, 
        or recommendation, for the dietary management of a covered 
        disease or condition;
            ``(ii) a specially formulated and processed product (as 
        opposed to a naturally occurring foodstuff used in its natural 
        state) for the partial or exclusive feeding of an individual by 
        means of oral intake or enteral feeding by tube;
            ``(iii) intended for the dietary management of an 
        individual who, because of therapeutic or chronic medical 
        needs, has limited or impaired capacity to ingest, digest, 
        absorb, or metabolize ordinary foodstuffs or certain nutrients, 
        or who has other special medically determined nutrient 
        requirements, the dietary management of which cannot be 
        achieved by the modification of the normal diet alone;
            ``(iv) intended to be used under medical supervision, which 
        may include in a home setting; and
            ``(v) intended only for an individual receiving active and 
        ongoing medical supervision under which the individual requires 
        medical care on a recurring basis for, among other things, 
        instructions on the use of the food; and
        ``(B) may not include--
            ``(i) food taken as part of an overall diet designed to 
        reduce the risk of a disease or medical condition or as weight-
        loss products, even if the food is recommended by a physician 
        or other health care professional;
            ``(ii) food marketed as gluten-free for the management of 
        celiac disease or non-celiac gluten sensitivity;
            ``(iii) food marketed for the management of diabetes; or
            ``(iv) such other products as the Secretary determines 
        appropriate.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `covered disease or condition' 
means--
        ``(A) inborn errors of metabolism;
        ``(B) medical conditions of malabsorption;
        ``(C) pathologies of the alimentary tract or the 
    gastrointestinal tract;
        ``(D) a neurological or physiological condition; and
        ``(E) such other diseases or conditions the Secretary 
    determines appropriate.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to health care provided under chapter 55 of such title on or 
after the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    SEC. 715. ELIGIBILITY OF CERTAIN BENEFICIARIES UNDER THE TRICARE 
      PROGRAM FOR PARTICIPATION IN THE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES DENTAL AND 
      VISION INSURANCE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--
        (1) Dental benefits.--Section 8951 of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``paragraph (1) or (2)'' 
        and inserting ``paragraph (1), (2), or (8)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) The term `covered TRICARE-eligible individual' means an 
    individual entitled to dental care under chapter 55 of title 10, 
    pursuant to section 1076c of such title, who the Secretary of 
    Defense determines should be an eligible individual for purposes of 
    this chapter.''.
        (2) Vision benefits.--Section 8981 of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``paragraph (1) or (2)'' 
        and inserting ``paragraph (1), (2), or (8)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8)(A) The term `covered TRICARE-eligible individual'--
            ``(i) means an individual entitled to medical care under 
        chapter 55 of title 10, pursuant to section 1076d, 1076e, 
        1079(a), 1086(c), or 1086(d) of such title, who the Secretary 
        of Defense determines in accordance with an agreement entered 
        into under subparagraph (B) should be an eligible individual 
        for purposes of this chapter; and
            ``(ii) does not include an individual covered under section 
        1110b of title 10.
        ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall enter into an agreement 
    with the Director of the Office relating to classes of individuals 
    described in subparagraph (A)(i) who should be eligible individuals 
    for purposes of this chapter.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Dental benefits.--Section 8958(c) of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) in the case of a covered TRICARE-eligible individual who 
    receives pay from the Federal Government or an annuity from the 
    Federal Government due to the death of a member of the uniformed 
    services (as defined in section 101 of title 10), and is not a 
    former spouse of a member of the uniformed services, be withheld 
    from--
            ``(A) the pay (including retired pay) of such individual; 
        or
            ``(B) the annuity paid to such individual; or
        ``(4) in the case of a covered TRICARE-eligible individual who 
    is not described in paragraph (3), be billed to such individual 
    directly.''.
        (2) Vision benefits.--Section 8988(c) of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) in the case of a covered TRICARE-eligible individual who 
    receives pay from the Federal Government or an annuity from the 
    Federal Government due to the death of a member of the uniformed 
    services (as defined in section 101 of title 10), and is not a 
    former spouse of a member of the uniformed services, be withheld 
    from--
            ``(A) the pay (including retired pay) of such individual; 
        or
            ``(B) the annuity paid to such individual; or
        ``(4) in the case of a covered TRICARE-eligible individual who 
    is not described in paragraph (3), be billed to such individual 
    directly.''.
        (3) Plan for dental insurance for certain retirees, surviving 
    spouses, and other dependents.--Subsection (a) of section 1076c of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Requirement for Plan.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a dental insurance plan for retirees of the uniformed 
services, certain unremarried surviving spouses, and dependents in 
accordance with this section.
    ``(2) The Secretary may satisfy the requirement under paragraph (1) 
by entering into an agreement with the Director of the Office of 
Personnel Management to allow persons described in subsection (b) to 
enroll in an insurance plan under chapter 89A of title 5 that provides 
benefits similar to those benefits required to be provided under 
subsection (d).''.
    (c) Applicability.--The amendments made by this section shall apply 
with respect to the first contract year for chapter 89A or 89B of title 
5, United States Code, as applicable, that begins on or after January 
1, 2018.
    SEC. 716. APPLIED BEHAVIOR ANALYSIS.
    (a) Rates of Reimbursement.--
        (1) In general.--In furnishing applied behavior analysis under 
    the TRICARE program to individuals described in paragraph (2) 
    during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
    Act and ending on December 31, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    ensure that the reimbursement rates for providers of applied 
    behavior analysis are not less than the rates that were in effect 
    on March 31, 2016.
        (2) Individuals described.--Individuals described in this 
    paragraph are individuals who are covered beneficiaries by reason 
    of being a member or former member of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or 
    Marine Corps, including the reserve components thereof, or a 
    dependent of such a member or former member.
    (b) Analysis.--
        (1) In general.--Upon the completion of the Department of 
    Defense Comprehensive Autism Care Demonstration, the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Health Affairs shall conduct an analysis 
    to--
            (A) use data gathered during the demonstration to set 
        future reimbursement rates for providers of applied behavior 
        analysis under the TRICARE program;
            (B) review comparative commercial insurance claims for 
        purposes of setting such future rates, including by--
                (i) conducting an analysis of the comparative total of 
            commercial insurance claims billed for applied behavior 
            analysis; and
                (ii) reviewing any covered beneficiary limitations on 
            access to applied behavior analysis services at various 
            military installations throughout the United States; and
            (C) determine whether the use of applied behavioral 
        analysis under the demonstration has improved outcomes for 
        covered beneficiaries with autism spectrum disorder.
        (2) Submission.--The Assistant Secretary shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives the analysis conducted under paragraph (1).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 717. EVALUATION AND TREATMENT OF VETERANS AND CIVILIANS AT 
      MILITARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall authorize a veteran 
(in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs) or civilian to 
be evaluated and treated at a military treatment facility if the 
Secretary of Defense determines that--
        (1) the evaluation and treatment of the individual is necessary 
    to attain the relevant mix and volume of medical casework required 
    to maintain medical readiness skills and competencies of health 
    care providers at the facility;
        (2) the health care providers at the facility have the 
    competencies, skills, and abilities required to treat the 
    individual; and
        (3) the facility has available space, equipment, and materials 
    to treat the individual.
    (b) Priority of Covered Beneficiaries.--The evaluation and 
treatment of covered beneficiaries at military treatment facilities 
shall be prioritized ahead of the evaluation and treatment of veterans 
and civilians at such facilities under subsection (a).
    (c) Reimbursement for Treatment.--
        (1) Civilians.--A military treatment facility that evaluates or 
    treats an individual (other than an individual described in 
    paragraph (2)) under subsection (a) shall bill the individual and 
    accept reimbursement from the individual or a third-party payer (as 
    that term is defined in section 1095(h) of title 10, United States 
    Code) on behalf of such individual for the costs of any health care 
    services provided to the individual under such subsection.
        (2) Veterans.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
    memorandum of agreement with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
    under which the Secretary of Veterans Affairs will pay a military 
    treatment facility using a prospective payment methodology 
    (including interagency transfers of funds or obligational authority 
    and similar transactions) for the costs of any health care services 
    provided at the facility under subsection (a) to individuals 
    eligible for such health care services from the Department of 
    Veterans Affairs.
        (3) Use of amounts.--The Secretary of Defense shall make 
    available to a military treatment facility any amounts collected by 
    such facility under paragraph (1) or (2) for health care services 
    provided to an individual under subsection (a).
    (d) Covered Beneficiary Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered beneficiary'' has the meaning given that term in section 1072 
of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 718. ENHANCEMENT OF USE OF TELEHEALTH SERVICES IN MILITARY 
      HEALTH SYSTEM.
    (a) Incorporation of Telehealth.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall incorporate, 
    throughout the direct care and purchased care components of the 
    military health system, the use of telehealth services, including 
    mobile health applications--
            (A) to improve access to primary care, urgent care, 
        behavioral health care, and specialty care;
            (B) to perform health assessments;
            (C) to provide diagnoses, interventions, and supervision;
            (D) to monitor individual health outcomes of covered 
        beneficiaries with chronic diseases or conditions;
            (E) to improve communication between health care providers 
        and patients; and
            (F) to reduce health care costs for covered beneficiaries 
        and the Department of Defense.
        (2) Types of telehealth services.--The telehealth services 
    required to be incorporated under paragraph (1) shall include those 
    telehealth services that--
            (A) maximize the use of secure messaging between health 
        care providers and covered beneficiaries to improve the access 
        of covered beneficiaries to health care and reduce the number 
        of visits to medical facilities for health care needs;
            (B) allow covered beneficiaries to schedule appointments; 
        and
            (C) allow health care providers, through video conference, 
        telephone or tablet applications, or home health monitoring 
        devices--
                (i) to assess and evaluate disease signs and symptoms;
                (ii) to diagnose diseases;
                (iii) to supervise treatments; and
                (iv) to monitor health outcomes.
    (b) Coverage of Items or Services.--An item or service furnished to 
a covered beneficiary via a telecommunications system shall be covered 
under the TRICARE program to the same extent as the item or service 
would be covered if furnished in the location of the covered 
beneficiary.
    (c) Reimbursement Rates for Telehealth Services.--The Secretary 
shall develop standardized payment methods to reimburse health care 
providers for telehealth services provided to covered beneficiaries in 
the purchased care component of the TRICARE program, including by using 
reimbursement rates that incentivize the provision of telehealth 
services.
    (d) Reduction or Elimination of Copayments.--The Secretary shall 
reduce or eliminate, as the Secretary considers appropriate, copayments 
or cost shares for covered beneficiaries in connection with the receipt 
of telehealth services under the purchased care component of the 
TRICARE program.
    (e) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report describing the full range of 
        telehealth services to be available in the direct care and 
        purchased care components of the military health system and the 
        copayments and cost shares, if any, associated with those 
        services.
            (B) Reimbursement plan.--The report required under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include a plan to develop standardized 
        payment methods to reimburse health care providers for 
        telehealth services provided to covered beneficiaries in the 
        purchased care component of the TRICARE program, as required 
        under subsection (c).
        (2) Final report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than three years after the date 
        on which the Secretary begins incorporating, throughout the 
        direct care and purchased care components of the military 
        health system, the use of telehealth services as required under 
        subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
        Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
        report describing the impact made by the use of telehealth 
        services, including mobile health applications, to carry out 
        the actions specified in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of 
        subsection (a)(1).
            (B) Elements.--The report required under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include an assessment of the following:
                (i) The satisfaction of covered beneficiaries with 
            telehealth services furnished by the Department of Defense.
                (ii) The satisfaction of health care providers in 
            providing telehealth services furnished by the Department.
                (iii) The effect of telehealth services furnished by 
            the Department on the following:

                    (I) The ability of covered beneficiaries to access 
                health care services in the direct care and purchased 
                care components of the military health system.
                    (II) The frequency of use of telehealth services by 
                covered beneficiaries.
                    (III) The productivity of health care providers 
                providing care furnished by the Department.
                    (IV) The reduction, if any, in the use by covered 
                beneficiaries of health care services in military 
                treatment facilities or medical facilities in the 
                private sector.
                    (V) The number and types of appointments for the 
                receipt of telehealth services furnished by the 
                Department.
                    (VI) The savings, if any, realized by the 
                Department by furnishing telehealth services to covered 
                beneficiaries.

    (f) Regulations.--
        (1) Interim final rule.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe an 
    interim final rule to implement this section.
        (2) Final rule.--Not later than 180 days after prescribing the 
    interim final rule under paragraph (1) and considering public 
    comments with respect to such interim final rule, the Secretary 
    shall prescribe a final rule to implement this section.
        (3) Objectives.--The regulations prescribed under paragraphs 
    (1) and (2) shall accomplish the objectives set forth in subsection 
    (a) and ensure quality of care, patient safety, and the integrity 
    of the TRICARE program.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 719. AUTHORIZATION OF REIMBURSEMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      TO ENTITIES CARRYING OUT STATE VACCINATION PROGRAMS FOR COSTS OF 
      VACCINES PROVIDED TO COVERED BENEFICIARIES.
    (a) Reimbursement.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may reimburse an 
    amount determined under paragraph (2) to an entity carrying out a 
    State vaccination program for the cost of vaccines provided to 
    covered beneficiaries through such program.
        (2) Amount of reimbursement.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        the amount determined under this paragraph with respect to a 
        State vaccination program shall be the amount assessed by the 
        entity carrying out such program to purchase vaccines provided 
        to covered beneficiaries through such program.
            (B) Limitation.--The amount determined under this paragraph 
        to provide vaccines to covered beneficiaries through a State 
        vaccination program may not exceed the amount that the 
        Department would reimburse an entity under the TRICARE program 
        for providing vaccines to the number of covered beneficiaries 
        who were involved in the applicable State vaccination program.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered beneficiary; tricare program.--The terms ``covered 
    beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given those 
    terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) State vaccination program.--The term ``State vaccination 
    program'' means a vaccination program that provides vaccinations to 
    individuals in a State and is carried out by an entity (including 
    an agency of the State) within the State.

                 Subtitle C--Health Care Administration

    SEC. 721. AUTHORITY TO CONVERT MILITARY MEDICAL AND DENTAL 
      POSITIONS TO CIVILIAN MEDICAL AND DENTAL POSITIONS.
    (a) Limited Authority for Conversion.--
        (1) Authority.--Chapter 49 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 976 the following new section:
``Sec. 977. Conversion of military medical and dental positions to 
   civilian medical and dental positions: limitation
    ``(a) Process.--The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration with the 
Secretaries of the military departments, shall establish a process to 
define the military medical and dental personnel requirements necessary 
to meet operational medical force readiness requirements.
    ``(b) Requirements Relating to Conversion.--A military medical or 
dental position within the Department of Defense may be converted to a 
civilian medical or dental position if the Secretary determines that 
the position is not necessary to meet operational medical force 
readiness requirements, as determined pursuant to subsection (a).
    ``(c) Grade or Level Converted.--In carrying out a conversion under 
subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense--
        ``(1) shall convert the applicable military position to a 
    civilian position with a level of compensation commensurate with 
    the skills and experience necessary to carry out the duties of such 
    civilian position; and
        ``(2) may not place any limitation on the grade or level to 
    which the military position is so converted.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `military medical or dental position' means a 
    position for the performance of health care functions within the 
    armed forces held by a member of the armed forces.
        ``(2) The term `civilian medical or dental position' means a 
    position for the performance of health care functions within the 
    Department of Defense held by an employee of the Department or of a 
    contractor of the Department.
        ``(3) The term `conversion', with respect to a military medical 
    or dental position, means a change of the position to a civilian 
    medical or dental position, effective as of the date of the manning 
    authorization document of the military department making the change 
    (through a change in designation from military to civilian in the 
    document, the elimination of the listing of the position as a 
    military position in the document, or through any other means 
    indicating the change in the document or otherwise).''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 49 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 976 the following new item:

``977. Conversion of military medical and dental positions to civilian 
          medical and dental positions: limitation.''.

        (3) Effective date of conversion authority.--The Secretary of 
    Defense may not carry out section 977(b) of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by paragraph (1), until the date that is 180 days 
    after the date on which the Secretary submits the report under 
    subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
that includes the following:
        (1) A description of the process established under section 
    977(a) of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), 
    to define the military medical and dental personnel requirements 
    necessary to meet operational medical force readiness requirements.
        (2) A complete list, by position, of the military medical and 
    dental personnel requirements necessary to meet operational medical 
    force readiness requirements.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 721 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 
198; 10 U.S.C. 129c note) is repealed.
    SEC. 722. PROSPECTIVE PAYMENT OF FUNDS NECESSARY TO PROVIDE MEDICAL 
      CARE FOR THE COAST GUARD.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 13 of title 14, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 520. Prospective payment of funds necessary to provide medical 
   care
    ``(a) Prospective Payment Required.--In lieu of the reimbursement 
required under section 1085 of title 10, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall make a prospective payment to the Secretary of Defense 
of an amount that represents the actuarial valuation of treatment or 
care--
        ``(1) that the Department of Defense shall provide to members 
    of the Coast Guard, former members of the Coast Guard, and 
    dependents of such members and former members (other than former 
    members and dependents of former members who are a Medicare-
    eligible beneficiary or for whom the payment for treatment or care 
    is made from the Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Care Fund) at 
    facilities under the jurisdiction of the Department of Defense or a 
    military department; and
        ``(2) for which a reimbursement would otherwise be made under 
    section 1085.
    ``(b) Amount.--The amount of the prospective payment under 
subsection (a) shall be--
        ``(1) in the case of treatment or care to be provided to 
    members of the Coast Guard and their dependents, derived from 
    amounts appropriated for the operating expenses of the Coast Guard;
        ``(2) in the case of treatment or care to be provided former 
    members of the Coast Guard and their dependents, derived from 
    amounts appropriated for retired pay;
        ``(3) determined under procedures established by the Secretary 
    of Defense;
        ``(4) paid during the fiscal year in which treatment or care is 
    provided; and
        ``(5) subject to adjustment or reconciliation as the 
    Secretaries determine appropriate during or promptly after such 
    fiscal year in cases in which the prospective payment is determined 
    excessive or insufficient based on the services actually provided.
    ``(c) No Prospective Payment When Service in Navy.--No prospective 
payment shall be made under this section for any period during which 
the Coast Guard operates as a service in the Navy.
    ``(d) Relationship to TRICARE.--This section shall not be construed 
to require a payment for, or the prospective payment of an amount that 
represents the value of, treatment or care provided under any TRICARE 
program.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The analysis for chapter 13 of title 14, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

``520. Prospective payment of funds necessary to provide medical 
          care.''.

    (c) Repeal.--Section 217 of the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 
2016 (Public Law 114-120), as amended by section 3503, and the item 
relating to that section in the table of contents in section 2 of such 
Act, are repealed.
    SEC. 723. REDUCTION OF ADMINISTRATIVE REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO 
      AUTOMATIC RENEWAL OF ENROLLMENTS IN TRICARE PRIME.
    Section 1097a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(1) An'' and inserting 
    ``An''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (2).
    SEC. 724. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF UNIFORMED SERVICES 
      UNIVERSITY OF THE HEALTH SCIENCES TO INCLUDE UNDERGRADUATE AND 
      OTHER MEDICAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2112(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a)(1) There is established a Uniformed Services University of 
the Health Sciences (in this chapter referred to as the `University') 
with authority to grant appropriate certificates, certifications, 
undergraduate degrees, and advanced degrees.
    ``(2) The University shall be so organized as to graduate not fewer 
than 100 medical students annually.
    ``(3) The headquarters of the University shall be at a site or 
sites selected by the Secretary of Defense within 25 miles of the 
District of Columbia.''.
    (b) Administration.--Section 2113 of such title is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``located in or near 
        the District of Columbia'';
            (B) in the third sentence, by striking ``in or near the 
        District of Columbia''; and
            (C) by striking the fifth sentence; and
        (2) in subsection (e)(3), by inserting after ``programs'' the 
    following: ``, including certificate, certification, and 
    undergraduate degree programs,''.
    (c) Repeal of Expired Provision.--Section 2112a of such title is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a) Closure Prohibited.--
    ''.
    SEC. 725. ADJUSTMENT OF MEDICAL SERVICES, PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED 
      STRENGTHS, AND INFRASTRUCTURE IN MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM TO 
      MAINTAIN READINESS AND CORE COMPETENCIES OF HEALTH CARE 
      PROVIDERS.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided by subsection (c), not later 
than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall implement measures to maintain the critical 
wartime medical readiness skills and core competencies of health care 
providers within the Armed Forces.
    (b) Measures.--The measures under subsection (a) shall include 
measures under which the Secretary ensures the following:
        (1) Medical services provided through the military health 
    system at military medical treatment facilities--
            (A) maintain the critical wartime medical readiness skills 
        and core competencies of health care providers within the Armed 
        Forces; and
            (B) ensure the medical readiness of the Armed Forces.
        (2) The authorized strengths for military and civilian 
    personnel throughout the military health system--
            (A) maintain the critical wartime medical readiness skills 
        and core competencies of health care providers within the Armed 
        Forces; and
            (B) ensure the medical readiness of the Armed Forces.
        (3) The infrastructure in the military health system, including 
    infrastructure of military medical treatment facilities--
            (A) maintains the critical wartime medical readiness skills 
        and core competencies of health care providers within the Armed 
        Forces; and
            (B) ensures the medical readiness of the Armed Forces.
        (4) Any covered beneficiary who may be affected by the measures 
    implemented under subsection (a) will be able to receive through 
    the purchased care component of the TRICARE program any medical 
    services that will not be available to such covered beneficiary at 
    a military medical treatment facility by reason of such measures.
    (c) Exception.--The Secretary is not required to implement measures 
under subsection (a)(1) with respect to military medical treatment 
facilities located in a foreign country if the Secretary determines 
that providing medical services in addition to the medical services 
described in such subsection is necessary to ensure that covered 
beneficiaries located in that foreign country have access to a similar 
level of care available to covered beneficiaries located in the United 
States.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``clinical and logistical capabilities'' means 
    those capabilities relating to the provision of health care that 
    are necessary to accomplish operational requirements, including--
            (A) combat casualty care;
            (B) medical response to and treatment of injuries sustained 
        from chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, or explosive 
        incidents;
            (C) diagnosis and treatment of infectious diseases;
            (D) aerospace medicine;
            (E) undersea medicine;
            (F) diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of specialized 
        medical conditions;
            (G) diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries that 
        are not related to battle; and
            (H) humanitarian assistance.
        (2) The terms ``covered beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' 
    have the meanings given those terms in section 1072 of title 10, 
    United States Code.
        (3) The term ``critical wartime medical readiness skills and 
    core competencies'' means those essential medical capabilities, 
    including clinical and logistical capabilities, that are--
            (A) necessary to be maintained by health care providers 
        within the Armed Forces for national security purposes; and
            (B) vital to the provision of effective and timely health 
        care during contingency operations.
    SEC. 726. PROGRAM TO ELIMINATE VARIABILITY IN HEALTH OUTCOMES AND 
      IMPROVE QUALITY OF HEALTH CARE SERVICES DELIVERED IN MILITARY 
      MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) Program.--Beginning not later than January 1, 2018, the 
Secretary of Defense shall implement a program--
        (1) to establish best practices for the delivery of health care 
    services for certain diseases or conditions at military medical 
    treatment facilities, as selected by the Secretary;
        (2) to incorporate such best practices into the daily 
    operations of military medical treatment facilities selected by the 
    Secretary for purposes of the program, with priority in selection 
    given to facilities that provide specialty care; and
        (3) to eliminate variability in health outcomes and to improve 
    the quality of health care services delivered at military medical 
    treatment facilities selected by the Secretary for purposes of the 
    program.
    (b) Use of Clinical Practice Guidelines.--In carrying out the 
program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop, implement, 
monitor, and update clinical practice guidelines reflecting the best 
practices established under paragraph (1) of such subsection.
    (c) Development.--In developing the clinical practice guidelines 
under subsection (b), the Secretary shall ensure that such development 
includes a baseline assessment of health care delivery and outcomes at 
military medical treatment facilities to evaluate and determine 
evidence-based best practices, within the direct care component of the 
military health system and the private sector, for treating the 
diseases or conditions selected by the Secretary under subsection 
(a)(1).
    (d) Implementation.--The Secretary shall implement the clinical 
practice guidelines under subsection (b) in military medical treatment 
facilities selected by the Secretary under subsection (a)(2) using 
means determined appropriate by the Secretary, including by 
communicating with the relevant health care providers of the evidence 
upon which the guidelines are based and by providing education and 
training on the most appropriate implementation of the guidelines.
    (e) Monitoring.--The Secretary shall monitor the implementation of 
the clinical practice guidelines under subsection (b) using appropriate 
means, including by monitoring the results in clinical outcomes based 
on specific metrics included as part of the guidelines.
    (f) Updating.--The Secretary shall periodically update the clinical 
practice guidelines under subsection (b) based on the results of 
monitoring conducted under subsection (e) and by continuously assessing 
evidence-based best practices within the direct care component of the 
military health system and the private sector.
    (g) Continuous Cycle.--The Secretary shall establish a continuous 
cycle of carrying out subsections (c) through (f) with respect to the 
clinical practice guidelines established under subsection (a).
    SEC. 727. ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL 
      STAFFING SERVICES.
    (a) Acquisition Strategy.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop and 
    carry out a performance-based, strategic sourcing acquisition 
    strategy with respect to entering into contracts for the services 
    of health care professional staff at military medical treatment 
    facilities located in a State.
        (2) Elements.--The acquisition strategy under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) Except as provided by subparagraph (B), a requirement 
        that all the military medical treatment facilities that provide 
        direct care use contracts described under paragraph (1).
            (B) A process for a military medical treatment facility to 
        obtain a waiver of the requirement under subparagraph (A) in 
        order to use an acquisition strategy not described in paragraph 
        (1).
            (C) Identification of the responsibilities of the military 
        departments and the elements of the Department of Defense in 
        carrying out such strategy.
            (D) Projection of the demand by covered beneficiaries for 
        health care services, including with respect to primary care 
        and expanded-hours urgent care services.
            (E) Estimation of the workload gaps at military medical 
        treatment facilities for health care services, including with 
        respect to primary care and expanded-hours urgent care 
        services.
            (F) Methods to analyze, using reliable and detailed data 
        covering the entire direct care component of the military 
        health system, the amount of funds expended on contracts for 
        the services of health care professional staff.
            (G) Methods to identify opportunities to consolidate 
        requirements for such services and reduce cost.
            (H) Methods to measure cost savings that are realized by 
        using such contracts instead of purchased care.
            (I) Metrics to determine the effectiveness of such 
        strategy.
            (J) Metrics to evaluate the success of the strategy in 
        achieving its objectives, including metrics to assess the 
        effects of the strategy on the timeliness of beneficiary access 
        to professional health care services in military medical 
        treatment facilities.
            (K) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (b) Report.--Not later than July 1, 2017, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report on the status of implementing the 
acquisition strategy under paragraph (1) of subsection (a), including 
how each element under subparagraphs (A) through (K) of paragraph (2) 
of such subsection is being carried out.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered beneficiary'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``State'' means the several States and the 
    District of Columbia.
    (d) Conforming Repeal.--Section 725 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 1091 note) is repealed.
    SEC. 728. ADOPTION OF CORE QUALITY PERFORMANCE METRICS.
    (a) Adoption.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall adopt, to the 
    extent appropriate, the core quality performance metrics agreed 
    upon by the Core Quality Measures Collaborative for use by the 
    military health system and in contracts awarded to carry out the 
    TRICARE program.
        (2) Core measures.--The core quality performance metrics 
    described in paragraph (1) shall include the following sets:
            (A) Accountable care organizations, patient centered 
        medical homes, and primary care.
            (B) Cardiology.
            (C) Gastroenterology.
            (D) HIV and hepatitis C.
            (E) Medical oncology.
            (F) Obstetrics and gynecology.
            (G) Orthopedics.
            (H) Such other sets of core quality performance metrics 
        released by the Core Quality Measures Collaborative as the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Publication.--
        (1) Online availability.--Section 1073b of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``Not later than'' and all that follows 
            through ``2016, the Secretary'' and inserting ``The 
            Secretary''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new sentence: 
            ``Such data shall include the core quality performance 
            metrics adopted by the Secretary under section 728 of the 
            National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.''; 
            and
            (B) in the section heading, by inserting ``and publication 
        of certain data'' after ``reports''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 1073b and inserting the 
    following:

``1073b. Recurring reports and publication of certain data.''.

    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Core Quality Measures Collaborative'' means the 
    collaboration between the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 
    major health insurance companies, national physician organizations, 
    and other entities to reach consensus on core performance measures 
    reported by health care providers.
        (2) The term ``TRICARE program'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 729. IMPROVEMENT OF HEALTH OUTCOMES AND CONTROL OF COSTS OF 
      HEALTH CARE UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM THROUGH PROGRAMS TO INVOLVE 
      COVERED BENEFICIARIES.
    (a) Medical Intervention Incentive Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    program to incentivize covered beneficiaries to participate in 
    medical intervention programs established by the Secretary, such as 
    comprehensive disease management programs, that may include 
    lowering fees for enrollment in the TRICARE program by a certain 
    percentage or lowering copayment and cost-share amounts for health 
    care services during a particular year for covered beneficiaries 
    with chronic diseases or conditions described in paragraph (2) who 
    met participation milestones, as determined by the Secretary, in 
    the previous year in such medical intervention programs.
        (2) Chronic diseases or conditions described.--Chronic diseases 
    or conditions described in this paragraph may include diabetes, 
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, asthma, congestive heart 
    failure, hypertension, history of stroke, coronary artery disease, 
    mood disorders, obesity, and such other diseases or conditions as 
    the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (b) Lifestyle Intervention Incentive Program.--The Secretary shall 
establish a program to incentivize lifestyle interventions for covered 
beneficiaries, such as smoking cessation and weight reduction, that may 
include lowering fees for enrollment in the TRICARE program by a 
certain percentage or lowering copayment and cost share amounts for 
health care services during a particular year for covered beneficiaries 
who met participation milestones, as determined by the Secretary, in 
the previous year with respect to such lifestyle interventions, such as 
quitting smoking or achieving a lower body mass index by a certain 
percentage.
    (c) Healthy Lifestyle Maintenance Incentive Program.--The Secretary 
shall establish a program to incentivize the maintenance of a healthy 
lifestyle among covered beneficiaries, such as exercise and weight 
maintenance, that may include lowering fees for enrollment in the 
TRICARE program by a certain percentage or lowering copayment and cost-
share amounts for health care services during a particular year for 
covered beneficiaries who met participation milestones, as determined 
by the Secretary, in the previous year with respect to the maintenance 
of a healthy lifestyle, such as maintaining smoking cessation or 
maintaining a normal body mass index.
    (d) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2020, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
    the House of Representatives a report on the implementation of the 
    programs established under subsections (a), (b), and (c).
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A detailed description of the programs implemented 
        under subsections (a), (b), and (c).
            (B) An assessment of the impact of such programs on--
                (i) improving health outcomes for covered 
            beneficiaries; and
                (ii) lowering per capita health care costs for the 
            Department of Defense.
    (e) Regulations.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary 
shall prescribe an interim final rule to carry out this section.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 730. ACCOUNTABILITY FOR THE PERFORMANCE OF THE MILITARY HEALTH 
      SYSTEM OF CERTAIN LEADERS WITHIN THE SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall incorporate 
into the annual performance review of each military and civilian leader 
in the military health system, as determined by the Secretary of 
Defense, measures of accountability for the performance of the military 
health system described in subsection (b).
    (b) Measures of Accountability for Performance.--The measures of 
accountability for the performance of the military health system 
incorporated into the annual performance review of an individual 
pursuant to this section shall include measures to assess performance 
and assure accountability for the following:
        (1) Quality of care.
        (2) Access of beneficiaries to care.
        (3) Improvement in health outcomes for beneficiaries.
        (4) Patient safety.
        (5) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense, in 
    consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, 
    considers appropriate.
    (c) Report on Implementation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report on the incorporation of measures of 
    accountability for the performance of the military health system 
    into the annual performance reviews of individuals as required by 
    this section.
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A comprehensive plan for the use of measures of 
        accountability for performance in annual performance reviews 
        pursuant to this section as a means of assessing and assuring 
        accountability for the performance of the military health 
        system.
            (B) The identification of each leadership position in the 
        military health system determined under subsection (a) and a 
        description of the specific measures of accountability for 
        performance to be incorporated into the annual performance 
        reviews of each such position pursuant to this section.
    SEC. 731. ESTABLISHMENT OF ADVISORY COMMITTEES FOR MILITARY 
      TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish, under 
such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, an advisory committee 
for each military treatment facility.
    (b) Status of Certain Members of Advisory Committees.--A member of 
an advisory committee established under subsection (a) who is not a 
member of the Armed Forces on active duty or an employee of the Federal 
Government shall, with the approval of the commanding officer or 
director of the military treatment facility concerned, be treated as a 
volunteer under section 1588 of title 10, United States Code, in 
carrying out the duties of the member under this section.
    (c) Duties.--Each advisory committee established under subsection 
(a) for a military treatment facility shall provide to the commanding 
officer or director of such facility advice on the administration and 
activities of such facility as it relates to the experience of care for 
beneficiaries at such facility.

                 Subtitle D--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 741. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
      FUND AND REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 
      CAPABILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Section 1704(e) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2573), as amended by section 722 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291) and section 723 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92), is further 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2018''.
    (b) Report on Implementation of Information Technology 
Capabilities.--Not later than March 30, 2017, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report on plans to implement all information 
technology capabilities required by the executive agreement entered 
into under section 1701(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2567) that remain 
unimplemented as of the date of the report.
    SEC. 742. PILOT PROGRAM ON EXPANSION OF USE OF PHYSICIAN ASSISTANTS 
      TO PROVIDE MENTAL HEALTH CARE TO MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may conduct a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of expanding the use 
by the Department of Defense of physician assistants specializing in 
psychiatric medicine at medical facilities of the Department of Defense 
in order to meet the increasing demand for mental health care providers 
at such facilities through the use of a psychiatry fellowship program 
for physician assistants.
    (b) Report on Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--If the Secretary conducts the pilot program 
    under this section, not later than 90 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary completes the conduct of the pilot program, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the pilot 
    program.
        (2) Elements.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description of the implementation of the pilot 
        program, including a detailed description of the education and 
        training provided under the pilot program.
            (B) An assessment of potential cost savings, if any, to the 
        Department of Defense resulting from the pilot program.
            (C) A description of improvements, if any, to the access of 
        members of the Armed Forces to mental health care resulting 
        from the pilot program.
            (D) A recommendation as to the feasibility and advisability 
        of extending or expanding the pilot program.
    SEC. 743. PILOT PROGRAM FOR PRESCRIPTION DRUG ACQUISITION COST 
      PARITY IN THE TRICARE PHARMACY BENEFITS PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority to Establish Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense 
may conduct a pilot program to evaluate whether, in carrying out the 
TRICARE pharmacy benefits program under section 1074g of title 10, 
United States Code, extending additional discounts for prescription 
drugs filled at retail pharmacies will maintain or reduce prescription 
drug costs for the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements of Pilot Program.--In carrying out the pilot program 
under subsection (a), the Secretary shall require that for prescription 
medications, including non-generic maintenance medications, that are 
dispensed to TRICARE beneficiaries that are not Medicare eligible, 
through any TRICARE participating retail pharmacy, including small 
business pharmacies, manufacturers shall pay rebates such that those 
medications are available to the Department at the lowest rate 
available. In addition to utilizing the authority under section 
1074g(f) of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary shall have the 
authority to enter into a blanket purchase agreement with prescription 
drug manufacturers for supplemental discounts for prescription drugs 
dispensed in the pilot to be paid in the form of manufacturer's 
rebates.
    (c) Consultation.--The Secretary shall develop the pilot program in 
consultation with--
        (1) the Secretaries of the military departments;
        (2) the Chief of the Pharmacy Operations Division of the 
    Defense Health Agency; and
        (3) stakeholders, including TRICARE beneficiaries and retail 
    pharmacies.
    (d) Duration of Pilot Program.--If the Secretary carries out the 
pilot program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall commence such 
pilot program no later than October 1, 2017, and shall terminate such 
program no later than September 30, 2018.
    (e) Reports.--If the Secretary carries out the pilot program under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives 
reports on the pilot program as follows:
        (1) Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, a report containing an implementation plan for the pilot 
    program.
        (2) Not later than 180 days after the date on which the pilot 
    program commences, an interim report on the pilot program.
        (3) Not later than 90 days after the date on which the pilot 
    program terminates, a final report describing the results of the 
    pilot program, including--
            (A) any recommendations of the Secretary to expand such 
        program;
            (B) an analysis of the changes in prescription drug costs 
        for the Department of Defense relating to the pilot program;
            (C) an analysis of the impact on beneficiary access to 
        prescription drugs;
            (D) a survey of beneficiary satisfaction with the pilot 
        program; and
            (E) a summary of any fraud and abuse activities related to 
        the pilot and actions taken in response by the Department.
    SEC. 744. PILOT PROGRAM ON DISPLAY OF WAIT TIMES AT URGENT CARE 
      CLINICS AND PHARMACIES OF MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT FACILITIES.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--Beginning not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
shall carry out a pilot program for the display of wait times in urgent 
care clinics and pharmacies of military medical treatment facilities 
selected under subsection (b).
    (b) Selection of Facilities.--
        (1) Categories.--The Secretary shall select not fewer than four 
    military medical treatment facilities from each of the following 
    categories to participate in the pilot program:
            (A) Medical centers.
            (B) Hospitals.
            (C) Ambulatory care centers.
        (2) OCONUS locations.--Of the military medical treatment 
    facilities selected under each category described in subparagraphs 
    (A) through (C) of paragraph (1), not fewer than one shall be 
    located outside of the continental United States.
        (3) Contractor-operated facilities.--The Secretary may select 
    Government-owned, contractor-operated facilities among those 
    military medical treatment facilities selected under paragraph (1).
    (c) Urgent Care Clinics.--
        (1) Placement.--With respect to each military medical treatment 
    facility participating in the pilot program with an urgent care 
    clinic, the Secretary shall place in a conspicuous location at the 
    urgent care clinic an electronic sign that displays the current 
    average wait time determined under paragraph (2) for a patient to 
    be seen by a qualified medical professional.
        (2) Determination.--In carrying out paragraph (1), every 30 
    minutes, the Secretary shall determine the average wait time to 
    display under such paragraph by calculating, for the four-hour 
    period preceding the calculation, the average length of time 
    beginning at the time of the arrival of a patient at the urgent 
    care clinic and ending at the time at which the patient is first 
    seen by a qualified medical professional.
    (d) Pharmacies.--
        (1) Placement.--With respect to each military medical treatment 
    facility participating in the pilot program with a pharmacy, the 
    Secretary shall place in a conspicuous location at the pharmacy an 
    electronic sign that displays the current average wait time to 
    receive a filled prescription for a pharmaceutical agent.
        (2) Determination.--In carrying out paragraph (1), every 30 
    minutes, the Secretary shall determine the average wait time to 
    display under such paragraph by calculating, for the four-hour 
    period preceding the calculation, the average length of time 
    beginning at the time of submission by a patient of a prescription 
    for a pharmaceutical agent and ending at the time at which the 
    pharmacy dispenses the pharmaceutical agent to the patient.
    (e) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program for 
a period that is not more than two years.
    (f) Report.--
        (1) Submission.--Not later than 90 days after the completion of 
    the pilot program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
    Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a 
    report on the pilot program.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) the costs for displaying the wait times under 
        subsections (c) and (d);
            (B) any changes in patient satisfaction;
            (C) any changes in patient behavior with respect to using 
        urgent care and pharmacy services;
            (D) any changes in pharmacy operations and productivity;
            (E) a cost-benefit analysis of posting such wait times; and
            (F) the feasibility of expanding the posting of wait times 
        in emergency departments in military medical treatment 
        facilities.
    (g) Qualified Medical Professional Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``qualified medical professional'' means a doctor of medicine, a 
doctor of osteopathy, a physician assistant, or an advanced registered 
nurse practitioner.
    SEC. 745. REQUIREMENT TO REVIEW AND MONITOR PRESCRIBING PRACTICES 
      AT MILITARY TREATMENT FACILITIES OF PHARMACEUTICAL AGENTS FOR 
      TREATMENT OF POST-TRAUMATIC STRESS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) conduct a comprehensive review of the prescribing practices 
    at military treatment facilities of pharmaceutical agents for the 
    treatment of post-traumatic stress;
        (2) implement a process or processes to monitor the prescribing 
    practices at military treatment facilities of pharmaceutical agents 
    that are discouraged from use under the VA/DOD Clinical Practice 
    Guideline for Management of Post-Traumatic Stress; and
        (3) implement a plan to address any deviations from such 
    guideline in prescribing practices of pharmaceutical agents for 
    management of post-traumatic stress at such facilities.
    (b) Pharmaceutical Agent Defined.--In this section, the term 
``pharmaceutical agent'' has the meaning given that term in section 
1074g(g) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 746. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STUDY ON PREVENTING THE DIVERSION 
      OF OPIOID MEDICATIONS.
    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a study on the 
feasibility and effectiveness in preventing the diversion of opioid 
medications of the following measures:
        (1) Requiring that, in appropriate cases, opioid medications be 
    dispensed in vials using affordable technologies designed to 
    prevent access to the medications by anyone other than the intended 
    patient, such as a vial with a locking-cap closure mechanism.
        (2) Providing education on the risks of opioid medications to 
    individuals for whom such medications are prescribed, and to their 
    families, with special consideration given to raising awareness 
    among adolescents on such risks.
    (b) Briefing.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a briefing on the results of the study conducted 
    under subsection (a).
        (2) Elements.--The briefing under paragraph (1) shall include 
    an assessment of the cost effectiveness of the measures studied 
    under subsection (a).
    SEC. 747. INCORPORATION INTO SURVEY BY DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OF 
      QUESTIONS ON EXPERIENCES OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WITH 
      FAMILY PLANNING SERVICES AND COUNSELING.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall initiate action to integrate into the 
Health Related Behavior Survey of Active Duty Military Personnel 
questions designed to obtain information on the experiences of members 
of the Armed Forces--
        (1) in accessing family planning services and counseling; and
        (2) in using family planning methods, including information on 
    which method was preferred and whether deployment conditions 
    affected the decision on which family planning method or methods to 
    be used.
    SEC. 748. ASSESSMENT OF TRANSITION TO TRICARE PROGRAM BY FAMILIES 
      OF MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS CALLED TO ACTIVE DUTY AND 
      ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN CHARGES FOR SUCH FAMILIES.
    (a) Assessment of Transition to TRICARE Program.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete an 
    assessment of the extent to which families of members of the 
    reserve components of the Armed Forces serving on active duty 
    pursuant to a call or order to active duty for a period of more 
    than 30 days experience difficulties in transitioning from health 
    care arrangements relied upon when the member is not in such an 
    active duty status to health care benefits under the TRICARE 
    program.
        (2) Elements.--The assessment under paragraph (1) shall address 
    the following:
            (A) The extent to which family members of members of the 
        reserve components of the Armed Forces are required to change 
        health care providers when they become eligible for health care 
        benefits under the TRICARE program.
            (B) The extent to which health care providers in the 
        private sector with whom such family members have established 
        relationships when not covered under the TRICARE program are 
        providers who--
                (i) are in a preferred provider network under the 
            TRICARE program;
                (ii) are participating providers under the TRICARE 
            program; or
                (iii) will agree to treat covered beneficiaries at a 
            rate not to exceed 115 percent of the maximum allowable 
            charge under the TRICARE program.
            (C) The extent to which such family members encounter 
        difficulties associated with a change in health care claims 
        administration, health care authorizations, or other 
        administrative matters when transitioning to health care 
        benefits under the TRICARE program.
            (D) Any particular reasons for, or circumstances that 
        explain, the conditions described in subparagraphs (A), (B), 
        and (C).
            (E) The effects of the conditions described in 
        subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) on the health care experience 
        of such family members.
            (F) Recommendations for changes in policies and procedures 
        under the TRICARE program, or other administrative action by 
        the Secretary, to remedy or mitigate difficulties faced by such 
        family members in transitioning to health care benefits under 
        the TRICARE program.
            (G) Recommendations for legislative action to remedy or 
        mitigate such difficulties.
            (H) Such other matters as the Secretary determines relevant 
        to the assessment.
        (3) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after completing 
        the assessment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit 
        to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
        of Representatives a report detailing the results of the 
        assessment.
            (B) Analysis of recommendations.--The report required by 
        subparagraph (A) shall include an analysis of each 
        recommendation for legislative action addressed under paragraph 
        (2)(G), together with a cost estimate for implementing each 
        such action.
    (b) Expansion of Authority To Eliminate Balance Billing.--Section 
1079(h)(4)(C)(ii) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``in support of a contingency operation under a provision of 
law referred to in section 101(a)(13)(B) of this title''.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 749. OVERSIGHT OF GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION PROGRAMS OF 
      MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    (a) Process.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
implement a process to provide oversight of the graduate medical 
education programs of the military departments to ensure that such 
programs fully support the operational medical force readiness 
requirements for health care providers of the Armed Forces and the 
medical readiness of the Armed Forces. The process shall include the 
following:
        (1) A process to review such programs to ensure, to the extent 
    practicable, that such programs are--
            (A) conducted jointly among the military departments; and
            (B) focused on, and related to, operational medical force 
        readiness requirements.
        (2) A process to minimize duplicative programs relating to such 
    programs among the military departments.
        (3) A process to ensure that--
            (A) assignments of faculty, support staff, and students 
        within such programs are coordinated among the military 
        departments; and
            (B) the Secretary optimizes resources by using military 
        medical treatment facilities as training platforms when and 
        where most appropriate.
        (4) A process to review and, if necessary, restructure or 
    realign, such programs to sustain and improve operational medical 
    force readiness.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
Secretary establishes the process under subsection (a), the Secretary 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report that describes such process. The 
report shall include a description of each graduate medical education 
program of the military departments, categorized by the following:
        (1) Programs that provide direct support to operational medical 
    force readiness.
        (2) Programs that provide indirect support to operational 
    medical force readiness.
        (3) Academic programs that provide other medical support.
    (c) Comptroller General Review and Report.--
        (1) Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
    conduct a review of the process established under subsection (a), 
    including with respect to each process described in paragraphs (1) 
    through (4) of such subsection.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary submits the report under subsection (b), the 
    Comptroller General shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives the review 
    conducted under paragraph (1), including an assessment of the 
    elements of the process established under subsection (a).
    SEC. 750. STUDY ON HEALTH OF HELICOPTER AND TILTROTOR PILOTS.
    (a) Study Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
study of career helicopter and tiltrotor pilots to assess potential 
links between the operation of helicopter and tiltrotor aircraft and 
acute and chronic medical conditions experienced by such pilots.
    (b) Elements.--The study under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A study of career helicopter and tiltrotor pilots compared 
    to a control population that--
            (A) takes into account the amount of time such pilots 
        operated aircraft;
            (B) examines the severity and rates of acute and chronic 
        injuries experienced by such pilots; and
            (C) determines whether such pilots experience a higher 
        degree of acute and chronic medical conditions than the control 
        population.
        (2) If a higher degree of acute and chronic medical conditions 
    is observed among such pilots, an explanation of--
            (A) the specific causes of the conditions (such as whole 
        body vibration, seat and cockpit ergonomics, landing loads, 
        hard impacts, and pilot-worn gear); and
            (B) any costs associated with treating the conditions if 
        the causes are not mitigated.
        (3) A review of relevant scientific literature and prior 
    research.
        (4) Such other information as the Secretary determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Duration.--The duration of the study under subsection (a) shall 
be not more than two years.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the completion of the 
study under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report on the study.
    SEC. 751. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORTS ON HEALTH CARE DELIVERY AND 
      WASTE IN MILITARY HEALTH SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once each year 
thereafter for four years, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report assessing the delivery of health care 
in the military health system, with an emphasis on identifying 
potential waste and inefficiency.
    (b) Elements.--
        (1) In general.--The reports submitted under subsection (a) 
    shall, within the direct and purchased care components of the 
    military health system, evaluate the following:
            (A) Processes for ensuring that health care providers 
        adhere to clinical practice guidelines.
            (B) Processes for reporting and resolving adverse medical 
        events.
            (C) Processes for ensuring program integrity by identifying 
        and resolving medical fraud and waste.
            (D) Processes for coordinating care within and between the 
        direct and purchased care components of the military health 
        system.
            (E) Procedures for administering the TRICARE program.
            (F) Processes for assessing and overseeing the efficiency 
        of clinical operations of military hospitals and clinics, 
        including access to care for covered beneficiaries at such 
        facilities.
        (2) Additional information.--The reports submitted under 
    subsection (a) may include, if the Comptroller General considers 
    feasible--
            (A) an estimate of the costs to the Department of Defense 
        relating to any waste or inefficiency identified in the report; 
        and
            (B) such recommendations for action by the Secretary of 
        Defense as the Comptroller General considers appropriate, 
        including eliminating waste and inefficiency in the direct and 
        purchased care components of the military health system.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Rapid acquisition authority amendments.
Sec. 802. Authority for temporary service of Principal Military Deputies 
          to the Assistant Secretaries of the military departments for 
          acquisition as Acting Assistant Secretaries.
Sec. 803. Modernization of services acquisition.
Sec. 804. Defense Modernization Account amendments.

          Subtitle B--Department of Defense Acquisition Agility

Sec. 805. Modular open system approach in development of major weapon 
          systems.
Sec. 806. Development, prototyping, and deployment of weapon system 
          components or technology.
Sec. 807. Cost, schedule, and performance of major defense acquisition 
          programs.
Sec. 808. Transparency in major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 809. Amendments relating to technical data rights.

 Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 811. Modified restrictions on undefinitized contractual actions.
Sec. 812. Amendments relating to inventory and tracking of purchases of 
          services.
Sec. 813. Use of lowest price technically acceptable source selection 
          process.
Sec. 814. Procurement of personal protective equipment.
Sec. 815. Amendments related to detection and avoidance of counterfeit 
          electronic parts.
Sec. 816. Amendments to special emergency procurement authority.
Sec. 817. Compliance with domestic source requirements for footwear 
          furnished to enlisted members of the Armed Forces upon their 
          initial entry into the Armed Forces.
Sec. 818. Extension of authority for enhanced transfer of technology 
          developed at Department of Defense laboratories.
Sec. 819. Modified notification requirement for exercise of waiver 
          authority to acquire vital national security capabilities.
Sec. 820. Defense cost accounting standards.
Sec. 821. Increased micro-purchase threshold applicable to Department of 
          Defense procurements.
Sec. 822. Enhanced competition requirements.
Sec. 823. Revision to effective date of senior executive benchmark 
          compensation for allowable cost limitations.
Sec. 824. Treatment of independent research and development costs on 
          certain contracts.
Sec. 825. Exception to requirement to include cost or price to the 
          Government as a factor in the evaluation of proposals for 
          certain multiple-award task or delivery order contracts.
Sec. 826. Extension of program for comprehensive small business 
          contracting plans.
Sec. 827. Treatment of side-by-side testing of certain equipment, 
          munitions, and technologies manufactured and developed under 
          cooperative research and development agreements as use of 
          competitive procedures.
Sec. 828. Defense Acquisition Challenge Program amendments.
Sec. 829. Preference for fixed-price contracts.
Sec. 830. Requirement to use firm fixed-price contracts for foreign 
          military sales.
Sec. 831. Preference for performance-based contract payments.
Sec. 832. Contractor incentives to achieve savings and improve mission 
          performance.
Sec. 833. Sunset and repeal of certain contracting provisions.
Sec. 834. Flexibility in contracting award program.
Sec. 835. Protection of task order competition.
Sec. 836. Contract closeout authority.
Sec. 837. Closeout of old Department of the Navy contracts.

  Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 841. Change in date of submission to Congress of Selected 
          Acquisition Reports.
Sec. 842. Amendments relating to independent cost estimation and cost 
          analysis.
Sec. 843.  Revisions to Milestone B determinations.
Sec. 844. Review and report on sustainment planning in the acquisition 
          process.
Sec. 845. Revision to distribution of annual report on operational test 
          and evaluation.
Sec. 846. Repeal of major automated information systems provisions.
Sec. 847. Revisions to definition of major defense acquisition program.
Sec. 848. Acquisition strategy.
Sec. 849. Improved life-cycle cost control.
Sec. 850. Authority to designate increments or blocks of items delivered 
          under major defense acquisition programs as major subprograms 
          for purposes of acquisition reporting.
Sec. 851. Reporting of small business participation on Department of 
          Defense programs.
Sec. 852. Waiver of congressional notification for acquisition of 
          tactical missiles and munitions greater than quantity 
          specified in law.
Sec. 853. Multiple program multiyear contract pilot demonstration 
          program.
Sec. 854. Key performance parameter reduction pilot program.
Sec. 855. Mission integration management.

        Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 861. Project management.
Sec. 862. Authority to waive tenure requirement for program managers for 
          program definition and program execution periods.
Sec. 863. Purposes for which the Department of Defense Acquisition 
          Workforce Development Fund may be used; advisory panel 
          amendments.
Sec. 864. Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund 
          determination adjustment.
Sec. 865. Limitations on funds used for staff augmentation contracts at 
          management headquarters of the Department of Defense and the 
          military departments.
Sec. 866. Senior Military Acquisition Advisors in the Defense 
          Acquisition Corps.
Sec. 867. Authority of the Secretary of Defense under the acquisition 
          demonstration project.

           Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 871. Market research for determination of price reasonableness in 
          acquisition of commercial items.
Sec. 872. Value analysis for the determination of price reasonableness.
Sec. 873. Clarification of requirements relating to commercial item 
          determinations.
Sec. 874. Inapplicability of certain laws and regulations to the 
          acquisition of commercial items and commercially available 
          off-the-shelf items.
Sec. 875. Use of commercial or non-Government standards in lieu of 
          military specifications and standards.
Sec. 876. Preference for commercial services.
Sec. 877. Treatment of commingled items purchased by contractors as 
          commercial items.
Sec. 878. Treatment of services provided by nontraditional contractors 
          as commercial items.
Sec. 879. Defense pilot program for authority to acquire innovative 
          commercial items, technologies, and services using general 
          solicitation competitive procedures.
Sec. 880. Pilot programs for authority to acquire innovative commercial 
          items using general solicitation competitive procedures.

                   Subtitle G--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 881. Greater integration of the national technology and industrial 
          base.
Sec. 882. Integration of civil and military roles in attaining national 
          technology and industrial base objectives.
Sec. 883. Pilot program for distribution support and services for weapon 
          systems contractors.
Sec. 884. Nontraditional and small contractor innovation prototyping 
          program.

                        Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 885. Report on bid protests.
Sec. 886. Review and report on indefinite delivery contracts.
Sec. 887.  Review and report on contractual flow-down provisions.
Sec. 888. Requirement and review relating to use of brand names or 
          brand-name or equivalent descriptions in solicitations.
Sec. 889. Inclusion of information on common grounds for sustaining bid 
          protests in annual Government Accountability Office reports to 
          Congress.
Sec. 890. Study and report on contracts awarded to minority-owned and 
          women-owned businesses.
Sec. 891. Authority to provide reimbursable auditing services to certain 
          non-Defense Agencies.
Sec. 892. Selection of service providers for auditing services and audit 
          readiness services.
Sec. 893. Amendments to contractor business system requirements.
Sec. 894. Improved management practices to reduce cost and improve 
          performance of certain Department of Defense organizations.
Sec. 895. Exemption from requirement for capital planning and investment 
          control for information technology equipment included as 
          integral part of a weapon or weapon system.
Sec. 896. Modifications to pilot program for streamlining awards for 
          innovative technology projects.
Sec. 897. Rapid prototyping funds for the military departments.
Sec. 898. Establishment of Panel on Department of Defense and AbilityOne 
          Contracting Oversight, Accountability, and Integrity; Defense 
          Acquisition University training.
Sec. 899. Coast Guard major acquisition programs.
Sec. 899A. Enhanced authority to acquire products and services produced 
          in Africa in support of certain activities.

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

    SEC. 801. RAPID ACQUISITION AUTHORITY AMENDMENTS.
    Section 806 of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; and'' and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(C) developed or procured under the rapid fielding or rapid 
    prototyping acquisition pathways under section 804 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
    10 U.S.C. 2302 note); and'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(3) Specific procedures in accordance with the guidance 
    developed under section 804(a) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 
    U.S.C. 2302 note).''; and
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (2)(A)--
                (i) by striking ``Whenever the Secretary'' and 
            inserting ``(i) Except as provided under clause (ii), 
            whenever the Secretary''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new clause:
        ``(ii) Clause (i) does not apply to acquisitions initiated in 
    the case of a determination by the Secretary that funds are 
    necessary to immediately initiate a project under the rapid 
    fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition pathways under section 
    804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
    (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) if the designated official 
    for acquisitions using such pathways is the service acquisition 
    executive.'';
            (B) in paragraph (3)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or upon the 
            Secretary making a determination that funds are necessary 
            to immediately initiate a project under the rapid fielding 
            or rapid prototyping acquisition pathways under section 804 
            of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
            2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) based on a 
            compelling national security need,'' after ``of paragraph 
            (1),'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (B)--

                    (I) by striking ``The authority'' and inserting 
                ``Except as provided under subparagraph (C), the 
                authority'';
                    (II) in clause (ii), by striking ``; and'' and 
                inserting a semicolon;
                    (III) in clause (iii), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (IV) by adding at the end the following new clause:

            ``(iv) in the case of a determination by the Secretary that 
        funds are necessary to immediately initiate a project under the 
        rapid fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition pathways under 
        section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), in 
        an amount not more than $200,000,000 during any fiscal year.''; 
        and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
        ``(C) For each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018, the limits set 
    forth in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (B) do not apply to 
    the exercise of authority under such clauses provided that the 
    total amount of supplies and associated support services acquired 
    as provided under such subparagraph does not exceed $800,000,000 
    during such fiscal year.'';
            (C) in paragraph (4)--
                (i) by redesignating subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E) as 
            subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F), respectively; and
                (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following 
            new subparagraph:
        ``(C) In the case of a determination by the Secretary under 
    paragraph (3)(A) that funds are necessary to immediately initiate a 
    project under the rapid fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition 
    pathways under section 804 of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), 
    the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of 
    the determination within 10 days after the date of the use of such 
    funds.''; and
            (D) in paragraph (5)--
                (i) by striking ``Any acquisition'' and inserting ``(A) 
            Any acquisition''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
        ``(B) Subparagraph (A) does not apply to acquisitions initiated 
    in the case of a determination by the Secretary that funds are 
    necessary to immediately initiate a project under the rapid 
    fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition pathways under section 
    804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
    (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note).''.
    SEC. 802. AUTHORITY FOR TEMPORARY SERVICE OF PRINCIPAL MILITARY 
      DEPUTIES TO THE ASSISTANT SECRETARIES OF THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS 
      FOR ACQUISITION AS ACTING ASSISTANT SECRETARIES.
    (a) Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and 
Technology.--Section 3016(b)(5)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``In the event 
of a vacancy in the position of Assistant Secretary of the Army for 
Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology, the Principal Military Deputy 
may serve as Acting Assistant Secretary for a period of not more than 
one year.''.
    (b) Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, Development, and 
Acquisition.--Section 5016(b)(4)(B) of such title is amended by adding 
at the end the following new sentence: ``In the event of a vacancy in 
the position of Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, 
Development, and Acquisition, the Principal Military Deputy may serve 
as Acting Assistant Secretary for a period of not more than one 
year.''.
    (c) Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition.--Section 
8016(b)(4)(B) of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``In the event of a vacancy in the position of 
Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, the Principal 
Military Deputy may serve as Acting Assistant Secretary for a period of 
not more than one year.''.
    SEC. 803. MODERNIZATION OF SERVICES ACQUISITION.
    (a) Review of Services Acquisition Categories.--Not later than 180 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
Defense shall review and, if necessary, revise Department of Defense 
Instruction 5000.74, dated January 5, 2016 (in this section referred to 
as the ``Acquisition of Services Instruction''), and other guidance 
pertaining to the acquisition of services. In conducting the review, 
the Secretary shall examine--
        (1) how the acquisition community should consider the changing 
    nature of the technology and professional services markets, 
    particularly the convergence of hardware and services; and
        (2) the services acquisition portfolio groups referenced in the 
    Acquisition of Services Instruction and other guidance in order to 
    ensure the portfolio groups are fully reflective of changes to the 
    technology and professional services market.
    (b) Guidance Regarding Training and Development of the Acquisition 
Workforce.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue 
    guidance addressing the training and development of the Department 
    of Defense workforce engaged in the procurement of services, 
    including those personnel not designated as members of the 
    acquisition workforce.
        (2) Identification of training and professional development 
    opportunities and alternatives.--The guidance required under 
    paragraph (1) shall identify training and professional development 
    opportunities and alternatives, not limited to existing Department 
    of Defense institutions, that focus on and provide relevant 
    training and professional development in commercial business models 
    and contracting.
        (3) Treatment of training and professional development.--Any 
    training and professional development provided pursuant to this 
    subsection outside Department of Defense institutions shall be 
    deemed to be equivalent to similar training certified or provided 
    by the Defense Acquisition University.
    SEC. 804. DEFENSE MODERNIZATION ACCOUNT AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Funds Available for Account.--Section 2216(b)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``commencing''.
    (b) Transfers to Account.--Section 2216(c) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(A)--
            (A) by striking ``or the Secretary of Defense with respect 
        to Defense-wide appropriations accounts'' and inserting ``, or 
        the Secretary of Defense with respect to Defense-wide 
        appropriations accounts,''; and
            (B) by striking ``that Secretary'' and inserting ``the 
        Secretary concerned'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)(B)--
            (A) by inserting after ``following funds'' the following: 
        ``that have been appropriated for fiscal years after fiscal 
        year 2016 and are'';
            (B) in clause (i)--
                (i) by striking ``for procurement'' and inserting ``for 
            new obligations'';
                (ii) by striking ``a particular procurement'' and 
            inserting ``an acquisition program''; and
                (iii) by striking ``that procurement'' and inserting 
            ``that program'';
            (C) by striking clause (ii); and
            (D) by redesignating clause (iii) as clause (ii);
        (3) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``, other than funds referred to in 
        subparagraph (B)(iii) of such paragraph,''; and
            (B) by striking ``if--'' and all that follows through ``(B) 
        the balance of funds'' and inserting ``if the balance of 
        funds'';
        (4) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by striking ``credited to'' both places it appears and 
        inserting ``deposited in''; and
            (B) by inserting ``and obligation'' after ``available for 
        transfer''; and
        (5) by striking paragraph (4).
    (c) Authorized Use of Funds.--Section 2216(d) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``commencing''; and
            (B) by striking ``Secretary of Defense'' and inserting 
        ``Secretary concerned'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``a procurement program'' and 
    inserting ``an acquisition program'';
        (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
        ``(3) For research, development, test, and evaluation, for 
    procurement, and for sustainment activities necessary for paying 
    costs of unforeseen contingencies that are approved by the 
    milestone decision authority concerned, that could prevent an 
    ongoing acquisition program from meeting critical schedule or 
    performance requirements.''; and
        (4) by inserting at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) For paying costs of changes to program requirements or 
    system configuration that are approved by the configuration 
    steering board for a major defense acquisition program.''.
    (d) Limitations.--Section 2216(e) of such title is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``procurement program'' both 
    places it appears and inserting ``acquisition program''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``authorized appropriations'' 
    and inserting ``authorized appropriations, unless the procedures 
    for initiating a new start program are complied with''.
    (e) Transfer of Funds.--Section 2216(f)(1) of such title is amended 
by striking ``Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``Secretary of a 
military department, or the Secretary of Defense with respect to 
Defense-wide appropriations accounts,''.
    (f) Availability of Funds by Appropriation.--Section 2216(g) of 
such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``in accordance with the provisions of 
    appropriations Acts''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following: ``Funds deposited in 
    the Defense Modernization Account shall remain available for 
    obligation until the end of the third fiscal year that follows the 
    fiscal year in which the amounts are deposited in the account.''.
    (g) Secretary to Act Through Comptroller.--Section 2216(h)(2) of 
such title is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
    subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), respectively;
        (2) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as so redesignated, 
    the following new subparagraph (A):
            ``(A) the establishment and management of subaccounts for 
        each of the military departments and Defense Agencies concerned 
        for the use of funds in the Defense Modernization Account, 
        consistent with each military department's or Defense Agency's 
        deposits in the Account;'';
        (3) in subparagraph (C), as so redesignated, by inserting ``and 
    subaccounts'' after ``Account''; and
        (4) in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated, by striking 
    ``subsection (c)(1)(B)(iii)'' and inserting ``subsection 
    (c)(1)(B)(ii)''.
    (h) Definitions.--Paragraph (1) of section 2216(i) of such title is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) The term `major defense acquisition program' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 2430(a) of this title.''.
    (j) Expiration of Authority.--Section 2216(j)(1) of such title is 
amended by striking ``terminates at the close of September 30, 2006'' 
and inserting ``terminates at the close of September 30, 2022''.

         Subtitle B--Department of Defense Acquisition Agility

    SEC. 805. MODULAR OPEN SYSTEM APPROACH IN DEVELOPMENT OF MAJOR 
      WEAPON SYSTEMS.
    (a) Modular Open System Approach.--
        (1) In general.--Part IV of subtitle A of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by inserting after chapter 144A the 
    following new chapter:

     ``CHAPTER 144B--WEAPON SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND RELATED MATTERS

``Subchapter 
                                                                    Sec.
``I. Modular Open System Approach in Development of Weapon Systems 2446a

``II. Development, Prototyping, and Deployment of Weapon System 
Components and Technology......................................... 2447a

``III. Cost, Schedule, and Performance of Major Defense 
Acquisition Programs.............................................. 2448a

 ``SUBCHAPTER I--MODULAR OPEN SYSTEM APPROACH IN DEVELOPMENT OF WEAPON 
                                SYSTEMS

``Sec.
``2446a. Requirement for modular open system approach in major defense 
          acquisition programs; definitions.
``2446b. Requirement to address modular open system approach in program 
          capabilities development and acquisition weapon system design.
``2446c. Requirements relating to availability of major system 
          interfaces and support for modular open system approach.

``Sec. 2446a. Requirement for modular open system approach in major 
     defense acquisition programs; definitions
    ``(a) Modular Open System Approach Requirement.--A major defense 
acquisition program that receives Milestone A or Milestone B approval 
after January 1, 2019, shall be designed and developed, to the maximum 
extent practicable, with a modular open system approach to enable 
incremental development and enhance competition, innovation, and 
interoperability.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this chapter:
        ``(1) The term `modular open system approach' means, with 
    respect to a major defense acquisition program, an integrated 
    business and technical strategy that--
            ``(A) employs a modular design that uses major system 
        interfaces between a major system platform and a major system 
        component, between major system components, or between major 
        system platforms;
            ``(B) is subjected to verification to ensure major system 
        interfaces comply with, if available and suitable, widely 
        supported and consensus-based standards;
            ``(C) uses a system architecture that allows severable 
        major system components at the appropriate level to be 
        incrementally added, removed, or replaced throughout the life 
        cycle of a major system platform to afford opportunities for 
        enhanced competition and innovation while yielding--
                ``(i) significant cost savings or avoidance;
                ``(ii) schedule reduction;
                ``(iii) opportunities for technical upgrades;
                ``(iv) increased interoperability, including system of 
            systems interoperability and mission integration; or
                ``(v) other benefits during the sustainment phase of a 
            major weapon system; and
            ``(D) complies with the technical data rights set forth in 
        section 2320 of this title.
        ``(2) The term `major system platform' means the highest level 
    structure of a major weapon system that is not physically mounted 
    or installed onto a higher level structure and on which a major 
    system component can be physically mounted or installed.
        ``(3) The term `major system component'--
            ``(A) means a high level subsystem or assembly, including 
        hardware, software, or an integrated assembly of both, that can 
        be mounted or installed on a major system platform through 
        well-defined major system interfaces; and
            ``(B) includes a subsystem or assembly that is likely to 
        have additional capability requirements, is likely to change 
        because of evolving technology or threat, is needed for 
        interoperability, facilitates incremental deployment of 
        capabilities, or is expected to be replaced by another major 
        system component.
        ``(4) The term `major system interface'--
            ``(A) means a shared boundary between a major system 
        platform and a major system component, between major system 
        components, or between major system platforms, defined by 
        various physical, logical, and functional characteristics, such 
        as electrical, mechanical, fluidic, optical, radio frequency, 
        data, networking, or software elements; and
            ``(B) is characterized clearly in terms of form, function, 
        and the content that flows across the interface in order to 
        enable technological innovation, incremental improvements, 
        integration, and interoperability.
        ``(5) The term `program capability document' means, with 
    respect to a major defense acquisition program, a document that 
    specifies capability requirements for the program, such as a 
    capability development document or a capability production 
    document.
        ``(6) The terms `program cost targets' and `fielding target' 
    have the meanings provided in section 2448a(a) of this title.
        ``(7) The term `major defense acquisition program' has the 
    meaning provided in section 2430 of this title.
        ``(8) The term `major weapon system' has the meaning provided 
    in section 2379(f) of this title.
``Sec. 2446b. Requirement to address modular open system approach in 
     program capabilities development and acquisition weapon system 
     design
    ``(a) Program Capability Document.--A program capability document 
for a major defense acquisition program shall identify and 
characterize--
        ``(1) the extent to which requirements for system performance 
    are likely to evolve during the life cycle of the system because of 
    evolving technology, threat, or interoperability needs; and
        ``(2) for requirements that are expected to evolve, the minimum 
    acceptable capability that is necessary for initial operating 
    capability of the major defense acquisition program.
    ``(b) Analysis of Alternatives.--The Director of Cost Assessment 
and Performance Evaluation, in formulating study guidance for analyses 
of alternatives for major defense acquisition programs and performing 
such analyses under section 139a(d)(4) of this title, shall ensure that 
any such analysis for a major defense acquisition program includes 
consideration of evolutionary acquisition, prototyping, and a modular 
open system approach.
    ``(c) Acquisition Strategy.--In the case of a major defense 
acquisition program that uses a modular open system approach, the 
acquisition strategy required under section 2431a of this title shall--
        ``(1) clearly describe the modular open system approach to be 
    used for the program;
        ``(2) differentiate between the major system platform and major 
    system components being developed under the program, as well as 
    major system components developed outside the program that will be 
    integrated into the major defense acquisition program;
        ``(3) clearly describe the evolution of major system components 
    that are anticipated to be added, removed, or replaced in 
    subsequent increments;
        ``(4) identify additional major system components that may be 
    added later in the life cycle of the major system platform;
        ``(5) clearly describe how intellectual property and related 
    issues, such as technical data deliverables, that are necessary to 
    support a modular open system approach, will be addressed; and
        ``(6) clearly describe the approach to systems integration and 
    systems-level configuration management to ensure mission and 
    information assurance.
    ``(d) Request for Proposals.--The milestone decision authority for 
a major defense acquisition program that uses a modular open system 
approach shall ensure that a request for proposals for the development 
or production phases of the program shall describe the modular open 
system approach and the minimum set of major system components that 
must be included in the design of the major defense acquisition 
program.
    ``(e) Milestone B.--A major defense acquisition program may not 
receive Milestone B approval under section 2366b of this title until 
the milestone decision authority determines in writing that--
        ``(1) in the case of a program that uses a modular open system 
    approach--
            ``(A) the program incorporates clearly defined major system 
        interfaces between the major system platform and major system 
        components, between major system components, and between major 
        system platforms;
            ``(B) such major system interfaces are consistent with the 
        widely supported and consensus-based standards that exist at 
        the time of the milestone decision, unless such standards are 
        unavailable or unsuitable for particular major system 
        interfaces; and
            ``(C) the Government has arranged to obtain appropriate and 
        necessary intellectual property rights with respect to such 
        major system interfaces upon completion of the development of 
        the major system platform; or
        ``(2) in the case of a program that does not use a modular open 
    system approach, that the use of a modular open system approach is 
    not practicable.
``Sec. 2446c. Requirements relating to availability of major system 
     interfaces and support for modular open system approach
    ``The Secretary of each military department shall--
        ``(1) coordinate with the other military departments, the 
    defense agencies, defense and other private sector entities, 
    national standards-setting organizations, and, when appropriate, 
    with elements of the intelligence community with respect to the 
    specification, identification, development, and maintenance of 
    major system interfaces and standards for use in major system 
    platforms, where practicable;
        ``(2) ensure that major system interfaces incorporate 
    commercial standards and other widely supported consensus-based 
    standards that are validated, published, and maintained by 
    recognized standards organizations to the maximum extent 
    practicable;
        ``(3) ensure that sufficient systems engineering and 
    development expertise and resources are available to support the 
    use of a modular open system approach in requirements development 
    and acquisition program planning;
        ``(4) ensure that necessary planning, programming, and 
    budgeting resources are provided to specify, identify, develop, and 
    sustain the modular open system approach, associated major system 
    interfaces, systems integration, and any additional program 
    activities necessary to sustain innovation and interoperability; 
    and
        ``(5) ensure that adequate training in the use of a modular 
    open system approach is provided to members of the requirements and 
    acquisition workforce.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of chapters for title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by adding after the item relating to 
    chapter 144A the following new item:

``144B. Weapon Systems Development and Related Matters..........2446a''.

        (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 2366b(a)(3) of such title is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (K); and
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (L) the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(M) the requirements of section 2446b(e) of this title 
        are met; and''.
        (4) Effective date.--Subchapter I of chapter 144B of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall take effect on 
    January 1, 2017.
    (b) Requirement to Include Modular Open System Approach in Selected 
Acquisition Reports.--Section 2432(c)(1) of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (F);
        (2) by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); and
        (3) by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following new 
    subparagraph (G):
        ``(G) for each major defense acquisition program that receives 
    Milestone B approval after January 1, 2019, a brief summary 
    description of the key elements of the modular open system approach 
    as defined in section 2446a of this title or, if a modular open 
    system approach was not used, the rationale for not using such an 
    approach; and''.
    SEC. 806. DEVELOPMENT, PROTOTYPING, AND DEPLOYMENT OF WEAPON SYSTEM 
      COMPONENTS OR TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Development, Prototyping, and Deployment of Weapon System 
Components or Technology.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 144B of title 10, United States Code, 
    as added by section 805, is further amended by adding at the end 
    the following new subchapter:

  ``SUBCHAPTER II--DEVELOPMENT, PROTOTYPING, AND DEPLOYMENT OF WEAPON 
                    SYSTEM COMPONENTS OR TECHNOLOGY

``Sec.
``2447a. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: 
          display of budget information.
``2447b. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: 
          oversight.
``2447c. Requirements and limitations for weapon system component or 
          technology prototype projects.
``2447d. Mechanisms to speed deployment of successful weapon system 
          component or technology prototypes.
``2447e. Definition of weapon system component.

``Sec. 2447a. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: 
     display of budget information
    ``(a) Requirements for Budget Display.--In the defense budget 
materials for any fiscal year after fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of 
Defense shall, with respect to advanced component development and 
prototype activities (within the research, development, test, and 
evaluation budget), set forth the amounts requested for each of the 
following:
        ``(1) Acquisition programs of record.
        ``(2) Development, prototyping, and experimentation of weapon 
    system components or other technologies, including those based on 
    commercial items and technologies, separate from acquisition 
    programs of record.
        ``(3) Other budget line items as determined by the Secretary of 
    Defense.
    ``(b) Additional Requirements.--For purposes of subsection (a)(2), 
the amounts requested for development, prototyping, and experimentation 
of weapon system components or other technologies shall be--
        ``(1) structured into either capability, weapon system 
    component, or technology portfolios that reflect the priority areas 
    for prototype projects; and
        ``(2) justified with general descriptions of the types of 
    capability areas and technologies being funded or expected to be 
    funded during the fiscal year concerned.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `budget' and 
`defense budget materials' have the meaning given those terms in 
section 234 of this title.
``Sec. 2447b. Weapon system component or technology prototype projects: 
     oversight
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of each military department 
shall establish an oversight board or identify a similar existing group 
of senior advisors for managing prototype projects for weapon system 
components and other technologies and subsystems, including the use of 
funds for such projects, within the military department concerned.
    ``(b) Membership.--Each oversight board shall be comprised of 
senior officials with--
        ``(1) expertise in requirements; research, development, test, 
    and evaluation; acquisition; sustainment; or other relevant areas 
    within the military department concerned;
        ``(2) awareness of technology development activities and 
    opportunities in the Department of Defense, industry, and other 
    sources; and
        ``(3) awareness of the component capability requirements of 
    major weapon systems, including scheduling and fielding goals for 
    such component capabilities.
    ``(c) Functions.--The functions of each oversight board are as 
follows:
        ``(1) To issue a strategic plan every three years that 
    prioritizes the capability and weapon system component portfolio 
    areas for conducting prototype projects, based on assessments of--
            ``(A) high priority warfighter needs;
            ``(B) capability gaps or readiness issues with major weapon 
        systems;
            ``(C) opportunities to incrementally integrate new 
        components into major weapon systems based on commercial 
        technology or science and technology efforts that are expected 
        to be sufficiently mature to prototype within three years; and
            ``(D) opportunities to reduce operation and support costs 
        of major weapon systems.
        ``(2) To annually recommend funding levels for weapon system 
    component or technology development and prototype projects across 
    capability or weapon system component portfolios.
        ``(3) To annually recommend to the service acquisition 
    executive of the military department concerned specific weapon 
    system component or technology development and prototype projects, 
    subject to the requirements and limitations in section 2447c of 
    this title.
        ``(4) To ensure projects are managed by experts within the 
    Department of Defense who are knowledgeable in research, 
    development, test, and evaluation and who are aware of 
    opportunities for incremental deployment of component capabilities 
    and other technologies to major weapon systems or directly to 
    support warfighting capabilities.
        ``(5) To ensure projects are conducted in a manner that allows 
    for appropriate experimentation and technology risk.
        ``(6) To ensure projects have a plan for technology transition 
    of the prototype into a fielded system, program of record, or 
    operational use, as appropriate, upon successful achievement of 
    technical and project goals.
        ``(7) To ensure necessary technical, contracting, and financial 
    management resources are available to support each project.
        ``(8) To submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    semiannual notification that includes the following:
            ``(A) each weapon system component or technology prototype 
        project initiated during the preceding six months, including an 
        explanation of each project and its required funding.
            ``(B) the results achieved from weapon system component 
        prototype and technology projects completed and tested during 
        the preceding six months.
``Sec. 2447c. Requirements and limitations for weapon system component 
     or technology prototype projects
    ``(a) Limitation on Prototype Project Duration.--A prototype 
project shall be completed within two years of its initiation.
    ``(b) Merit-based Selection Process.--A prototype project shall be 
selected by the service acquisition executive of the military 
department concerned through a merit-based selection process that 
identifies the most promising, innovative, and cost-effective 
prototypes that address one or more of the elements set forth in 
subsection (c)(1) of section 2447b of this title and are expected to be 
successfully demonstrated in a relevant environment.
    ``(c) Type of Transaction.--Prototype projects shall be funded 
through contracts, cooperative agreements, or other transactions.
    ``(d) Funding Limit.--(1) Each prototype project may not exceed a 
total amount of $10,000,000 (based on fiscal year 2017 constant 
dollars), unless--
        ``(A) the Secretary of the military department, or the 
    Secretary's designee, approves a larger amount of funding for the 
    project, not to exceed $50,000,000; and
        ``(B) the Secretary, or the Secretary's designee, submits to 
    the congressional defense committees, within 30 days after approval 
    of such funding for the project, a notification that includes--
            ``(i) the project;
            ``(ii) expected funding for the project; and
            ``(iii) a statement of the anticipated outcome of the 
        project.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense may adjust the amounts (and the base 
fiscal year) provided in paragraph (1) on the basis of Department of 
Defense escalation rates.
    ``(e) Related Prototype Authorities.--Prototype projects that 
exceed the duration and funding limits established in this section 
shall be pursued under the rapid prototyping process established by 
section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note). In addition, nothing in 
this subchapter shall affect the authority to carry out prototype 
projects under section 2371b or any other section of this title related 
to prototyping.
``Sec. 2447d. Mechanisms to speed deployment of successful weapon 
     system component or technology prototypes
    ``(a) Selection of Prototype Project for Production and Rapid 
Fielding.--A weapon system component or technology prototype project 
may be selected by the service acquisition executive of the military 
department concerned for a follow-on production contract or other 
transaction without the use of competitive procedures, notwithstanding 
the requirements of section 2304 of this title, if--
        ``(1) the follow-on production project addresses a high 
    priority warfighter need or reduces the costs of a weapon system;
        ``(2) competitive procedures were used for the selection of 
    parties for participation in the original prototype project;
        ``(3) the participants in the original prototype project 
    successfully completed the requirements of the project; and
        ``(4) a prototype of the system to be procured was demonstrated 
    in a relevant environment.
    ``(b) Special Transfer Authority.--(1) The Secretary of a military 
department may, as specified in advance by appropriations Acts, 
transfer funds that remain available for obligation in procurement 
appropriation accounts of the military department to fund the low-rate 
initial production of the rapid fielding project until required funding 
for full-rate production can be submitted and approved through the 
regular budget process of the Department of Defense.
    ``(2) The funds transferred under this subsection to fund the low-
rate initial production of a rapid fielding project shall be for a 
period not to exceed two years, the amount for such period may not 
exceed $50,000,000, and the special transfer authority provided in this 
subsection may not be used more than once to fund procurement of a 
particular new or upgraded system.
    ``(3) The special transfer authority provided in this subsection is 
in addition to any other transfer authority available to the Department 
of Defense.
    ``(c) Notification to Congress.--Within 30 days after the service 
acquisition executive of a military department selects a weapon system 
component or technology project for a follow-on production contract or 
other transaction, the service acquisition executive shall notify the 
congressional defense committees of the selection and provide a brief 
description of the rapid fielding project.
``Sec. 2447e. Definition of weapon system component
    ``In this subchapter, the term `weapon system component' has the 
meaning given the term `major system component' in section 2446a of 
this title.''.
        (2) Effective date.--Subchapter II of chapter 144B of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall take effect on 
    January 1, 2017.
    (b) Addition to Requirements Needed Before Milestone A Approval.--
Section 2366a(b) of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (7);
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (9); and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following new 
    paragraph (8):
        ``(8) that, with respect to a program initiated after January 
    1, 2019, technology shall be developed in the program (after 
    Milestone A approval) only if the milestone decision authority 
    determines with a high degree of confidence that such development 
    will not delay the fielding target of the program, or, if the 
    milestone decision authority does not make such determination for a 
    major system component being developed under the program, the 
    milestone decision authority ensures that the technology related to 
    the major system component shall be sufficiently matured and 
    demonstrated in a relevant environment (after Milestone A approval) 
    separate from the program using the prototyping authorities in 
    subchapter II of chapter 144B of this title or other authorities, 
    as appropriate, and have an effective plan for adoption or 
    insertion by the relevant program; and''.
    SEC. 807. COST, SCHEDULE, AND PERFORMANCE OF MAJOR DEFENSE 
      ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Cost, Schedule, and Performance of Major Defense Acquisition 
Programs.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 144B of title 10, United States Code, 
    as added by section 805, is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new subchapter:

  ``SUBCHAPTER III--COST, SCHEDULE, AND PERFORMANCE OF MAJOR DEFENSE 
                          ACQUISITION PROGRAMS

``Sec.
``2448a. Program cost, fielding, and performance goals in planning major 
          defense acquisition programs.
``2448b. Independent technical risk assessments.

``Sec. 2448a. Program cost, fielding, and performance goals in planning 
     major defense acquisition programs
    ``(a) Program Cost and Fielding Targets.--(1) Before funds are 
obligated for technology development, systems development, or 
production of a major defense acquisition program, the Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure, by establishing the goals described in paragraph 
(2), that the milestone decision authority for the major defense 
acquisition program approves a program that will--
        ``(A) be affordable;
        ``(B) incorporate program planning that anticipates the 
    evolution of capabilities to meet changing threats, technology 
    insertion, and interoperability; and
        ``(C) be fielded when needed.
    ``(2) The goals described in this paragraph are goals for--
        ``(A) the procurement unit cost and sustainment cost (referred 
    to in this section as the `program cost targets');
        ``(B) the date for initial operational capability (referred to 
    in this section as the `fielding target'); and
        ``(C) technology maturation, prototyping, and a modular open 
    system approach to evolve system capabilities and improve 
    interoperability.
    ``(b) Delegation.--The responsibilities of the Secretary of Defense 
in subsection (a) may be delegated only to the Deputy Secretary of 
Defense.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `procurement unit cost' has the meaning provided 
    in section 2432(a)(2) of this title.
        ``(2) The term `initial capabilities document' has the meaning 
    provided in section 2366a(d)(2) of this title.
``Sec. 2448b. Independent technical risk assessments
    ``(a) In General.--With respect to a major defense acquisition 
program, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that an independent 
technical risk assessment is conducted--
        ``(1) before any decision to grant Milestone A approval for the 
    program pursuant to section 2366a of this title, that identifies 
    critical technologies and manufacturing processes that need to be 
    matured; and
        ``(2) before any decision to grant Milestone B approval for the 
    program pursuant to section 2366b of this title, any decision to 
    enter into low-rate initial production or full-rate production, or 
    at any other time considered appropriate by the Secretary, that 
    includes the identification of any critical technologies or 
    manufacturing processes that have not been successfully 
    demonstrated in a relevant environment.
    ``(b) Categorization of Technical Risk Levels.--The Secretary shall 
issue guidance and a framework for categorizing the degree of technical 
and manufacturing risk in a major defense acquisition program.''.
        (2) Effective date.--Subchapter III of chapter 144B of title 
    10, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with 
    respect to major defense acquisition programs that reach Milestone 
    A after October 1, 2017.
    (b) Modification of Milestone Decision Authority.--Effective 
January 1, 2017, subsection (d) of section 2430 of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by section 825(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
907), is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``subject to paragraph 
    (5),'' before ``the Secretary determines''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) The authority of the Secretary of Defense to designate an 
alternative milestone decision authority for a program with respect to 
which the Secretary determines that the program is addressing a joint 
requirement, as set forth in paragraph (2)(A), shall apply only for a 
major defense acquisition program that reaches Milestone A after 
October 1, 2016, and before October 1, 2019.''.
    (c) Adherence to Requirements in Major Defense Acquisition 
Programs.--Section 2547 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections (c) 
    and (d), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Adherence to Requirements in Major Defense Acquisition 
Programs.--The Secretary of the military department concerned shall 
ensure that the program capability document supporting a Milestone B or 
subsequent decision for a major defense acquisition program may not be 
approved until the chief of the armed force concerned determines in 
writing that the requirements in the document are necessary and 
realistic in relation to the program cost and fielding targets 
established under section 2448a(a) of this title.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end of subsection (d), as so redesignated, 
    the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) The term `program capability document' has the meaning 
    provided in section 2446a(b)(5) of this title.''.
    (d) Amendment Relating to Determination Required Before Milestone A 
Approval.--Section 2366a(b)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after ``areas of risk'' the following: ``, 
including risks determined by the identification of critical 
technologies required under section 2448b(a)(1) of this title or any 
other risk assessment''.
    (e) Amendment Relating to Certification Required Before Milestone B 
Approval.--Section 2366b(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``assessment by the Assistant 
    Secretary'' and all that follows through ``Test and Evaluation'' 
    and inserting ``technical risk assessment conducted under section 
    2448b of this title''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), as amended by section 805(a)(3)(B)--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C);
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (M) as 
        subparagraphs (E) through (N), respectively; and
            (C) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph (D):
            ``(D) the estimated procurement unit cost for the program 
        and the estimated date for initial operational capability for 
        the baseline description for the program (established under 
        section 2435) do not exceed the program cost and fielding 
        targets established under section 2448a(a) of this title, or, 
        if such estimated cost is higher than the program cost targets 
        or if such estimated date is later than the fielding target, 
        the program cost targets have been increased or the fielding 
        target has been delayed by the Secretary of Defense after a 
        request for such increase or delay by the milestone decision 
        authority;''.
    SEC. 808. TRANSPARENCY IN MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Milestone A Report.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2366a(c) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Submissions to Congress on Milestone A.--
        ``(1) Brief summary report.--Not later than 15 days after 
    granting Milestone A approval for a major defense acquisition 
    program, the milestone decision authority for the program shall 
    provide to the congressional defense committees and, in the case of 
    intelligence or intelligence-related activities, the congressional 
    intelligence committees a brief summary report that contains the 
    following elements:
            ``(A) The program cost and fielding targets established by 
        the Secretary of Defense under section 2448a(a) of this title.
            ``(B) The estimated cost and schedule for the program 
        established by the military department concerned, including--
                ``(i) the dollar values estimated for the program 
            acquisition unit cost and total life-cycle cost; and
                ``(ii) the planned dates for each program milestone and 
            initial operational capability.
            ``(C) The independent estimated cost for the program 
        established pursuant to section 2334(a)(6) of this title, and 
        any independent estimated schedule for the program, including--
                ``(i) as assessment of the major contributors to the 
            program acquisition unit cost and total life-cycle cost; 
            and
                ``(ii) the planned dates for each program milestone and 
            initial operational capability.
            ``(D) A summary of the technical or manufacturing risks 
        associated with the program, as determined by the military 
        department concerned, including identification of any critical 
        technologies or manufacturing processes that need to be 
        matured.
            ``(E) A summary of the independent technical risk 
        assessment conducted or approved under section 2448b of this 
        title, including identification of any critical technologies or 
        manufacturing processes that need to be matured.
            ``(F) A summary of any sufficiency review conducted by the 
        Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation of the 
        analysis of alternatives performed for the program (as referred 
        to in section 2366a(b)(6) of this title).
            ``(G) Any other information the milestone decision 
        authority considers relevant.
        ``(2) Additional information.--(A) At the request of any of the 
    congressional defense committees or, in the case of intelligence or 
    intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence 
    committees, the milestone decision authority shall submit to the 
    committee an explanation of the basis for a determination made 
    under subsection (b) with respect to a major defense acquisition 
    program, together with a copy of the written determination, or 
    further information or underlying documentation for the information 
    in a brief summary report submitted under paragraph (1), including 
    the independent cost and schedule estimates and the independent 
    technical risk assessments referred to in that paragraph.
        ``(B) The explanation or information shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.''.
        (2) Definitions.--Section 2366a(d) of such title is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(8) The term `fielding target' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 2448a(a) of this title.
        ``(9) The term `major system component' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2446a(b)(3) of this title.
        ``(10) The term `congressional intelligence committees' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 437(c) of this title.''.
    (b) Milestone B Report.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2366b(c) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Submissions to Congress on Milestone B.--
        ``(1) Brief summary report.--Not later than 15 days after 
    granting Milestone B approval for a major defense acquisition 
    program, the milestone decision authority for the program shall 
    provide to the congressional defense committees and, in the case of 
    intelligence or intelligence-related activities, the congressional 
    intelligence committees a brief summary report that contains the 
    following elements:
            ``(A) The program cost and fielding targets established by 
        the Secretary of Defense under section 2448a(a) of this title.
            ``(B) The estimated cost and schedule for the program 
        established by the military department concerned, including--
                ``(i) the dollar values estimated for the program 
            acquisition unit cost, average procurement unit cost, and 
            total life-cycle cost; and
                ``(ii) the planned dates for each program milestone, 
            initial operational test and evaluation, and initial 
            operational capability.
            ``(C) The independent estimated cost for the program 
        established pursuant to section 2334(a)(6) of this title, and 
        any independent estimated schedule for the program, including--
                ``(i) the dollar values and ranges estimated for the 
            program acquisition unit cost, average procurement unit 
            cost, and total life-cycle cost; and
                ``(ii) the planned dates for each program milestone, 
            initial operational test and evaluation, and initial 
            operational capability.
            ``(D) A summary of the technical and manufacturing risks 
        associated with the program, as determined by the military 
        department concerned, including identification of any critical 
        technologies or manufacturing processes that have not been 
        successfully demonstrated in a relevant environment.
            ``(E) A summary of the independent technical risk 
        assessment conducted or approved under section 2448b of this 
        title, including identification of any critical technologies or 
        manufacturing processes that have not been successfully 
        demonstrated in a relevant environment.
            ``(F) A statement of whether a modular open system approach 
        is being used for the program.
            ``(G) Any other information the milestone decision 
        authority considers relevant.
        ``(2) Certifications and determinations.--(A) The 
    certifications and determination under subsection (a) with respect 
    to a major defense acquisition program shall be submitted to the 
    congressional defense committees with the first Selected 
    Acquisition Report submitted under section 2432 of this title after 
    completion of the certification.
        ``(B) The milestone decision authority shall retain records of 
    the basis for the certifications and determination under paragraphs 
    (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a).
        ``(3) Additional information.--(A) At the request of any of the 
    congressional defense committees or, in the case of intelligence or 
    intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence 
    committees, the milestone decision authority shall submit to the 
    committee an explanation of the basis for the certifications and 
    determination under paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) 
    with respect to a major defense acquisition program or further 
    information or underlying documentation for the information in a 
    brief summary report submitted under paragraph (1), including the 
    independent cost and schedule estimates and the independent 
    technical risk assessments referred to in that paragraph.
        ``(B) The explanation or information shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.''.
        (2) Definitions.--Section 2366b(g) of such title is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(6) The term `fielding target' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 2448a(a) of this title.
        ``(7) The term `major system component' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2446a(b)(3) of this title.
        ``(8) The term `congressional intelligence committees' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 437(c) of this title.''.
    (c) Milestone C Report.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of such title is amended by 
    inserting after section 2366b the following new section:
``Sec. 2366c. Major defense acquisition programs: submissions to 
     Congress on Milestone C
    ``(a) Brief Summary Report.--Not later than 15 days after granting 
Milestone C approval for a major defense acquisition program, the 
milestone decision authority for the program shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees and, in the case of intelligence or 
intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence 
committees a brief summary report that contains the following:
        ``(1) The estimated cost and schedule for the program 
    established by the military department concerned, including--
            ``(A) the dollar values estimated for the program 
        acquisition unit cost, average procurement unit cost, and total 
        life-cycle cost; and
            ``(B) the planned dates for initial operational test and 
        evaluation and initial operational capability.
        ``(2) The independent estimated cost for the program 
    established pursuant to section 2334(a)(6) of this title, and any 
    independent estimated schedule for the program, including--
            ``(A) the dollar values estimated for the program 
        acquisition unit cost, average procurement unit cost, and total 
        life-cycle cost; and
            ``(B) the planned dates for initial operational test and 
        evaluation and initial operational capability.
        ``(3) A summary of any production, manufacturing, and fielding 
    risks associated with the program.
    ``(b) Additional Information.--At the request of any of the 
congressional defense committees or, in the case of intelligence or 
intelligence-related activities, the congressional intelligence 
committees, the milestone decision authority shall submit to the 
committee further information or underlying documentation for the 
information in a brief summary report submitted under subsection (a), 
including the independent cost and schedule estimates and the 
independent technical risk assessments referred to in that subsection.
    ``(c) Congressional Intelligence Committees Defined.--In this 
section, the term `congressional intelligence committees' has the 
meaning given that term in section 437(c) of this title.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 2366b the following new item:

``2366c. Major defense acquisition programs: submissions to Congress on 
          Milestone C.''.
    SEC. 809. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO TECHNICAL DATA RIGHTS.
    (a) Rights Relating to Item or Process Developed Exclusively at 
Private Expense.--Subsection (a)(2)(C)(iii) of section 2320 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after ``or process 
data'' the following: ``, including such data pertaining to a major 
system component''.
    (b) Rights Relating to Interface or Major System Interface.--
Subsection (a)(2) of section 2320 of such title is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (F) and (G) as subparagraphs 
    (H) and (I), respectively;
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``Except as provided in 
    subparagraphs (C) and (D),'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
    subparagraphs (C), (D), and (G),'';
        (3) in subparagraph (D)(i)(II), by striking ``is necessary'' 
    and inserting ``is a release, disclosure, or use of technical data 
    pertaining to an interface between an item or process and other 
    items or processes necessary'';
        (4) in subparagraph (E)--
            (A) by striking ``In the case'' and inserting ``Except as 
        provided in subparagraphs (F) and (G), in the case''; and
            (B) by striking ``negotiations). The United States shall 
        have'' and all that follows through ``such negotiated rights 
        shall'' and inserting the following: ``negotiations) and shall 
        be based on negotiations between the United States and the 
        contractor, except in any case in which the Secretary of 
        Defense determines, on the basis of criteria established in the 
        regulations, that negotiations would not be practicable. The 
        establishment of such rights shall''; and
        (5) by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new 
    subparagraphs (F) and (G):
        ``(F) Interfaces developed with mixed funding.--Notwithstanding 
    subparagraph (E), the United States shall have government purpose 
    rights in technical data pertaining to an interface between an item 
    or process and other items or processes that was developed in part 
    with Federal funds and in part at private expense, except in any 
    case in which the Secretary of Defense determines, on the basis of 
    criteria established in the regulations, that negotiation of 
    different rights in such technical data would be in the best 
    interest of the United States.
        ``(G) Major system interfaces developed exclusively at private 
    expense or with mixed funding.--Notwithstanding subparagraphs (B) 
    and (E), the United States shall have government purpose rights in 
    technical data pertaining to a major system interface developed 
    exclusively at private expense or in part with Federal funds and in 
    part at private expense and used in a modular open system approach 
    pursuant to section 2446a of this title, except in any case in 
    which the Secretary of Defense determines that negotiation of 
    different rights in such technical data would be in the best 
    interest of the United States. Such major system interface shall be 
    identified in the contract solicitation and the contract. For 
    technical data pertaining to a major system interface developed 
    exclusively at private expense for which the United States asserts 
    government purpose rights, the Secretary of Defense shall negotiate 
    with the contractor the appropriate and reasonable compensation for 
    such technical data.''.
    (c) Amendment Relating to Deferred Ordering.--Subsection (b)(9) of 
section 2320 of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking ``at any time'' and inserting ``, until the 
    date occurring six years after acceptance of the last item (other 
    than technical data) under a contract or the date of contract 
    termination, whichever is later,'';
        (2) by striking ``or utilized in the performance of a 
    contract'' and inserting ``in the performance of the contract''; 
    and
        (3) by striking clause (ii) of subparagraph (B) and inserting 
    the following:
                ``(ii) is described in subparagraphs (D)(i)(II), (F), 
            and (G) of subsection (a)(2); and''.
    (d) Definitions.--Section 2320 of such title is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (f), by inserting ``Covered Government 
    Support Contractor Defined.--'' before ``In this section''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Additional Definitions.--In this section, the terms `major 
system component', `major system interface', and `modular open system 
approach' have the meanings provided in section 2446a of this title.''.
    (e) Amendments to Add Certain Headings for Readability.--Section 
2320(a) of such title is further amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (2), by inserting after 
    ``(A)'' the following: ``Development exclusively with federal 
    funds.--'';
        (2) in subparagraph (B) of such paragraph, by inserting after 
    ``(B)'' the following: ``Development exclusively at private 
    expense.--'';
        (3) in subparagraph (C) of such paragraph, by inserting after 
    ``(C)'' the following: ``Exception to subparagraph (b).--'';
        (4) in subparagraph (D) of such paragraph, by inserting after 
    ``(D)'' the following: ``Exception to subparagraph (b).--''; and
        (5) in subparagraph (E) of such paragraph, by inserting after 
    ``(E)'' the following: ``Development with mixed funding.--''. 
    (f) Government-industry Advisory Panel Amendments.--Section 813(b) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public 
Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 892) is amended--
        (1) by adding at the end of paragraph (1) the following: ``The 
    panel shall develop recommendations for changes to sections 2320 
    and 2321 of title 10, United States Code, and the regulations 
    implementing such sections.'';
        (2) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as 
        subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph (D):
            ``(D) Ensuring that the Department of Defense and 
        Department of Defense contractors have the technical data 
        rights necessary to support the modular open system approach 
        requirement set forth in section 2446a of title 10, United 
        States Code, taking into consideration the distinct 
        characteristics of major system platforms, major system 
        interfaces, and major system components developed exclusively 
        with Federal funds, exclusively at private expense, and with a 
        combination of Federal funds and private expense.''; and
        (3) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
        ``(4) Final report.--Not later than February 1, 2017, the 
    advisory panel shall submit its final report and recommendations to 
    the Secretary of Defense and the congressional defense committees. 
    Not later than 60 days after receiving the report, the Secretary 
    shall submit any comments or recommendations to the congressional 
    defense committees.''.

Subtitle C--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

    SEC. 811. MODIFIED RESTRICTIONS ON UNDEFINITIZED CONTRACTUAL 
      ACTIONS.
    Section 2326 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (e)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
        subparagraphs (A) and (B);
            (B) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The head''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If a contractor submits a qualifying proposal to definitize 
an undefinitized contractual action and the contracting officer for 
such action definitizes the contract after the end of the 180-day 
period beginning on the date on which the contractor submitted the 
qualifying proposal, the head of the agency concerned shall ensure that 
the profit allowed on the contract accurately reflects the cost risk of 
the contractor as such risk existed on the date the contractor 
submitted the qualifying proposal.'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (h) 
    and (i), respectively;
        (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(f) Time Limit.--No undefinitized contractual action may extend 
beyond 90 days without a written determination by the Secretary of the 
military department concerned, the head of the Defense Agency 
concerned, the commander of the combatant command concerned, or the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
(as applicable) that it is in the best interests of the military 
department, the Defense Agency, the combatant command, or the 
Department of Defense, respectively, to continue the action.
    ``(g) Foreign Military Contracts.--(1) Except as provided in 
paragraph (2), a contracting officer of the Department of Defense may 
not enter into an undefinitized contractual action for a foreign 
military sale unless the contractual action provides for agreement upon 
contractual terms, specifications, and price by the end of the 180-day 
period described in subsection (b)(1)(A).
    ``(2) The requirement under paragraph (1) may be waived in 
accordance with subsection (b)(4).''; and
        (4) in subsection (i), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking subparagraph (A); and
                (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) 
            as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``complete and meaningful 
        audits'' and all that follows through the period and inserting 
        ``a meaningful audit of the information contained in the 
        proposal.''.
    SEC. 812. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO INVENTORY AND TRACKING OF 
      PURCHASES OF SERVICES.
    (a) Increased Threshold.--Subsection (a) of section 2330a of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``in excess of the 
simplified acquisition threshold'' and inserting ``in excess of 
$3,000,000''.
    (b) Specification of Services.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
further amended by striking the period at the end and inserting the 
following: ``, for services in the following service acquisition 
portfolio groups:
        ``(1) Logistics management services.
        ``(2) Equipment related services.
        ``(3) Knowledge-based services.
        ``(4) Electronics and communications services.''.
    (c) Inventory Summary.--Subsection (c) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(c) Inventory.--'' and inserting ``(c) 
    Inventory Summary.--''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``submit to Congress an 
    annual inventory'' and all that follows through ``for or on 
    behalf'' and inserting ``prepare an annual inventory, and submit to 
    Congress a summary of the inventory, of activities performed during 
    the preceding fiscal year pursuant to staff augmentation contracts 
    on behalf''.
    (d) Elimination of Certain Requirements.--Such section is further 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsections (d), (g), and (h); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (i), and (j) as 
    subsections (d), (e), (g), and (h), respectively.
    (e) Specification of Services to Be Reviewed.--Subsection (d), as 
so redesignated, of such section, is amended in paragraph (1) by 
inserting after ``responsible'' the following: ``, with particular 
focus and attention on the following categories of high-risk product 
service codes (also referred to as Federal supply codes):
            ``(A) Special studies or analysis that is not research and 
        development.
            ``(B) Information technology and telecommunications.
            ``(C) Support, including professional, administrative, and 
        management.''.
    (f) Comptroller General Report.--Such section is further amended by 
inserting after subsection (e), as so redesignated, the following new 
subsection (f):
    ``(f) Comptroller General Report.--Not later than March 31, 2018, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the status of the data 
collection required in subsection (a) and an assessment of the efforts 
by the Department of Defense to implement subsection (e).''.
    (g) Definitions.--Subsection (h), as so redesignated, of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(6) The term `service acquisition portfolio groups' means the 
    groups identified in Department of Defense Instruction 5000.74, 
    Defense Acquisition of Services (January 5, 2016) or successor 
    guidance.
        ``(7) The term `staff augmentation contracts' means services 
    contracts for personnel who are physically present in a Government 
    work space on a full-time or permanent part-time basis, for the 
    purpose of advising on, providing support to, or assisting a 
    Government agency in the performance of the agency's missions, 
    including authorized personal services contracts (as that term is 
    defined in section 2330a(g)(5) of this title).''.
    SEC. 813. USE OF LOWEST PRICE TECHNICALLY ACCEPTABLE SOURCE 
      SELECTION PROCESS.
    (a) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the Department 
of Defense to avoid using lowest price technically acceptable source 
selection criteria in circumstances that would deny the Department the 
benefits of cost and technical tradeoffs in the source selection 
process.
    (b) Revision of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the Defense Federal 
Acquisition Regulation Supplement to require that, for solicitations 
issued on or after the date that is 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, lowest price technically acceptable source 
selection criteria are used only in situations in which--
        (1) the Department of Defense is able to comprehensively and 
    clearly describe the minimum requirements expressed in terms of 
    performance objectives, measures, and standards that will be used 
    to determine acceptability of offers;
        (2) the Department of Defense would realize no, or minimal, 
    value from a contract proposal exceeding the minimum technical or 
    performance requirements set forth in the request for proposal;
        (3) the proposed technical approaches will require no, or 
    minimal, subjective judgment by the source selection authority as 
    to the desirability of one offeror's proposal versus a competing 
    proposal;
        (4) the source selection authority has a high degree of 
    confidence that a review of technical proposals of offerors other 
    than the lowest bidder would not result in the identification of 
    factors that could provide value or benefit to the Department;
        (5) the contracting officer has included a justification for 
    the use of a lowest price technically acceptable evaluation 
    methodology in the contract file; and
        (6) the Department of Defense has determined that the lowest 
    price reflects full life-cycle costs, including for operations and 
    support.
    (c) Avoidance of Use of Lowest Price Technically Acceptable Source 
Selection Criteria in Certain Procurements.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the use of lowest price technically acceptable source 
selection criteria shall be avoided in the case of a procurement that 
is predominately for the acquisition of--
        (1) information technology services, cybersecurity services, 
    systems engineering and technical assistance services, advanced 
    electronic testing, audit or audit readiness services, or other 
    knowledge-based professional services;
        (2) personal protective equipment; or
        (3) knowledge-based training or logistics services in 
    contingency operations or other operations outside the United 
    States, including in Afghanistan or Iraq.
    (d) Reporting.--Not later than December 1, 2017, and annually 
thereafter for three years, the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
the number of instances in which lowest price technically acceptable 
source selection criteria is used for a contract exceeding $10,000,000, 
including an explanation of how the situations listed in subsection (b) 
were considered in making a determination to use lowest price 
technically acceptable source selection criteria.
    SEC. 814. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
    (a) Limitation.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement shall be revised--
        (1) to prohibit the use by the Department of Defense of reverse 
    auctions or lowest price technically acceptable contracting methods 
    for the procurement of personal protective equipment if the level 
    of quality or failure of the item could result in combat 
    casualties; and
        (2) to establish a preference for the use of best value 
    contracting methods for the procurement of such equipment.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 884 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
948; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is hereby repealed.
    SEC. 815. AMENDMENTS RELATED TO DETECTION AND AVOIDANCE OF 
      COUNTERFEIT ELECTRONIC PARTS.
    Section 818 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3) of subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking the heading and inserting ``Suppliers 
        meeting anticounterfeiting requirements.--'';
            (B) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``trusted suppliers 
        in accordance with regulations issued pursuant to subparagraph 
        (C) or (D) who'' and inserting ``suppliers that meet 
        anticounterfeiting requirements in accordance with regulations 
        issued pursuant to subparagraph (C) or (D) and that'';
            (C) in subparagraphs (A)(ii) and (A)(iii), by striking 
        ``trusted suppliers'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``suppliers that meet anticounterfeiting requirements'';
            (D) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``as trusted suppliers 
        those'' and inserting ``suppliers'';
            (E) in subparagraph (D) in the matter preceding clause (i), 
        by striking ``trusted suppliers'' and inserting ``suppliers 
        that meet anticounterfeiting requirements''; and
            (F) in subparagraphs (D)(i) and (D)(iii), by striking 
        ``trusted'' each place it appears; and
        (2) in subsection (e)(2)(A)(v), by striking ``use of trusted 
    suppliers'' and inserting ``the use of suppliers that meet 
    applicable anticounterfeiting requirements''.
    SEC. 816. AMENDMENTS TO SPECIAL EMERGENCY PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.
    Section 1903(a) of title 41, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of paragraph (1);
        (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (3) by adding after paragraph (2) the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) in support of a request from the Secretary of State or 
    the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
    Development to facilitate the provision of international disaster 
    assistance pursuant to chapter 9 of part I of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2292 et seq.); or
        ``(4) in support of an emergency or major disaster (as those 
    terms are defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster 
    Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122)).''.
    SEC. 817. COMPLIANCE WITH DOMESTIC SOURCE REQUIREMENTS FOR FOOTWEAR 
      FURNISHED TO ENLISTED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES UPON THEIR 
      INITIAL ENTRY INTO THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 418 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) In the case of athletic footwear needed by members of the 
Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps upon their initial entry into 
the armed forces, the Secretary of Defense shall furnish such footwear 
directly to the members instead of providing a cash allowance to the 
members for the purchase of such footwear.
    ``(2) In procuring athletic footwear to comply with paragraph (1), 
the Secretary of Defense shall--
        ``(A) procure athletic footwear that complies with the 
    requirements of section 2533a of title 10, without regard to the 
    applicability of any simplified acquisition threshold under chapter 
    137 of title 10 (or any other provision of law); and
        ``(B) procure additional athletic footwear, for two years 
    following the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, that is necessary to 
    provide a member described in paragraph (1) with sufficient choices 
    in athletic shoes so as to minimize the incidence of athletic 
    injuries and potential unnecessary harm and risk to the safety and 
    well-being of members in initial entry training.
    ``(3) This subsection does not prohibit the provision of a cash 
allowance to a member described in paragraph (1) for the purchase of 
athletic footwear if such footwear--
        ``(A) is medically required to meet unique physiological needs 
    of the member; and
        ``(B) cannot be met with athletic footwear that complies with 
    the requirements of this subsection.''.
    SEC. 818. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ENHANCED TRANSFER OF 
      TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPED AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE LABORATORIES.
    Section 801(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 804; 10 U.S.C. 2514 note) is 
amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2021''.
    SEC. 819. MODIFIED NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENT FOR EXERCISE OF WAIVER 
      AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE VITAL NATIONAL SECURITY CAPABILITIES.
    Subsection (d) of section 806 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Notification Requirement.--Not later than 10 days after 
exercising the waiver authority under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Defense shall provide a written notification to Congress providing the 
details of the waiver and the expected benefits it provides to the 
Department of Defense.''.
    SEC. 820. DEFENSE COST ACCOUNTING STANDARDS.
    (a) Amendments to the Cost Accounting Standards Board.--
        (1) In general.--Section 1501 of title 41, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(1)(B)(ii), by inserting ``and, if 
        possible, is a representative of a public accounting firm'' 
        after ``systems'';
            (B) by redesignating subsections (c) through (f) as 
        subsections (f) through (i), respectively;
            (C) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
        subsections:
    ``(c) Duties.--The Board shall--
        ``(1) ensure that the cost accounting standards used by Federal 
    contractors rely, to the maximum extent practicable, on commercial 
    standards and accounting practices and systems;
        ``(2) within one year after the date of enactment of this 
    subsection, and on an ongoing basis thereafter, review any cost 
    accounting standards established under section 1502 of this title 
    and conform such standards, where practicable, to Generally 
    Accepted Accounting Principles; and
        ``(3) annually review disputes involving such standards brought 
    to the boards established in section 7105 of this title or Federal 
    courts, and consider whether greater clarity in such standards 
    could avoid such disputes.
    ``(d) Meetings.--The Board shall meet not less than once each 
quarter and shall publish in the Federal Register notice of each 
meeting and its agenda before such meeting is held.
    ``(e) Report.--The Board shall annually submit a report to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Oversight and 
Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate describing the 
actions taken during the prior year--
        ``(1) to conform the cost accounting standards established 
    under section 1502 of this title with Generally Accepted Accounting 
    Principles; and
        ``(2) to minimize the burden on contractors while protecting 
    the interests of the Federal Government.''; and
            (D) by amending subsection (f) (as so redesignated) to read 
        as follows:
    ``(f) Senior Staff.--The Administrator, after consultation with the 
Board--
        ``(1) without regard to the provisions of title 5 governing 
    appointments in the competitive service--
            ``(A) shall appoint an executive secretary; and
            ``(B) may appoint, or detail pursuant to section 3341 of 
        title 5, two additional staff members; and
        ``(2) may pay those employees without regard to the provisions 
    of chapter 51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5 relating 
    to classification and General Schedule pay rates, except that those 
    employees may not receive pay in excess of the maximum rate of 
    basic pay payable for level IV of the Executive Schedule.''.
        (2) Value of contracts eligible for waiver.--Section 
    1502(b)(3)(A) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking ``$15,000,000'' and inserting ``$100,000,000''.
        (3) Conforming amendments.--Section 1501(i) of title 41, United 
    States Code (as redesignated by paragraph (1)), is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection (e)(1)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (h)(1)''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``subsection (e)(2)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (h)(2)''.
    (b) Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 7 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 190. Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board
    ``(a) Organization.--The Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board is 
an independent board in the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(b) Membership.--(1) The Board consists of seven members. One 
member is the Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Defense or a 
designee of the Chief Financial Officer, who serves as Chairman. The 
other six members, all of whom shall have experience in contract 
pricing, finance, or cost accounting, are as follows:
        ``(A) Three representatives of the Department of Defense 
    appointed by the Secretary of Defense; and
        ``(B) Three individuals from the private sector, each of whom 
    is appointed by the Secretary of Defense, and--
            ``(i) one of whom is a representative of a nontraditional 
        defense contractor (as defined in section 2302(9) of this 
        title); and
            ``(ii) one of whom is a representative from a public 
        accounting firm.
    ``(2) A member appointed under paragraph (1)(A) may not continue to 
serve after ceasing to be an officer or employee of the Department of 
Defense.
    ``(c) Duties of the Chairman.--The Chief Financial Officer of the 
Department of Defense, after consultation with the Defense Cost 
Accounting Standards Board, shall prescribe rules and procedures 
governing actions of the Board under this section.
    ``(d) Duties.--The Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board--
        ``(1) shall review cost accounting standards established under 
    section 1502 of title 41 and recommend changes to such cost 
    accounting standards to the Cost Accounting Standards Board 
    established under section 1501 of such title;
        ``(2) has exclusive authority, with respect to the Department 
    of Defense, to implement such cost accounting standards to achieve 
    uniformity and consistency in the standards governing measurement, 
    assignment, and allocation of costs to contracts with the 
    Department of Defense; and
        ``(3) shall develop standards to ensure that commercial 
    operations performed by Government employees at the Department of 
    Defense adhere to cost accounting standards (based on cost 
    accounting standards established under section 1502 of title 41 or 
    Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) that inform managerial 
    decisionmaking.
    ``(e) Compensation.--(1) Members of the Defense Cost Accounting 
Standards Board who are officers or employees of the Department of 
Defense shall not receive additional compensation for services but 
shall continue to be compensated by the Department of Defense.
    ``(2) Each member of the Board appointed from the private sector 
shall receive compensation at a rate not to exceed the daily equivalent 
of the rate for level IV of the Executive Schedule for each day 
(including travel time) in which the member is engaged in the actual 
performance of duties vested in the Board.
    ``(3) While serving away from home or regular place of business, 
Board members and other individuals serving on an intermittent basis 
shall be allowed travel expenses in accordance with section 5703 of 
title 5.
    ``(f) Auditing Requirements.--(1) Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, contractors with the Department of Defense may 
present, and the Defense Contract Audit Agency shall accept without 
performing additional audits, a summary of audit findings prepared by a 
commercial auditor if--
        ``(A) the auditor previously performed an audit of the 
    allowability, measurement, assignment to accounting periods, and 
    allocation of indirect costs of the contractor; and
        ``(B) such audit was performed using relevant commercial 
    accounting standards (such as Generally Accepted Accounting 
    Principles) and relevant commercial auditing standards established 
    by the commercial auditing industry for the relevant accounting 
    period.
    ``(2) The Defense Contract Audit Agency may audit direct costs of 
Department of Defense cost contracts and shall rely on commercial 
audits of indirect costs without performing additional audits, except 
that in the case of companies or business units that have a 
predominance of cost-type contracts as a percentage of sales, the 
Defense Contract Audit Agency may audit both direct and indirect 
costs.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 7 of such title is amended by adding after the item 
    relating to section 189 the following new item:

``190. Defense Cost Accounting Standards Board.''.

    (c) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2019, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the adequacy of the method used by the Cost 
Accounting Standards Board established under section 1501 of title 41, 
United States Code, to apply cost accounting standards to indirect and 
fixed price incentive contracts.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on October 1, 2018.
    SEC. 821. INCREASED MICRO-PURCHASE THRESHOLD APPLICABLE TO 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROCUREMENTS.
    (a) Increased Micro-purchase Threshold.--Chapter 137 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
``Sec. 2338. Micro-purchase threshold
    ``Notwithstanding subsection (a) of section 1902 of title 41, the 
micro-purchase threshold for the Department of Defense for purposes of 
such section is $5,000.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``2338. Micro-purchase threshold.''.
    SEC. 822. ENHANCED COMPETITION REQUIREMENTS.
    Section 2306a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)(A), by inserting ``that is only 
    expected to receive one bid'' after ``entered into using procedures 
    other than sealed-bid procedures''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(A)(i), by striking ``price 
        competition'' and inserting ``competition that results in at 
        least two or more responsive and viable competing bids''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) Determination by prime contractor.--A prime contractor 
    required to submit certified cost or pricing data under subsection 
    (a) with respect to a prime contract shall be responsible for 
    determining whether a subcontract under such contract qualifies for 
    an exception under paragraph (1)(A) from such requirement.''.
    SEC. 823. REVISION TO EFFECTIVE DATE OF SENIOR EXECUTIVE BENCHMARK 
      COMPENSATION FOR ALLOWABLE COST LIMITATIONS.
    (a) Repeal of Retroactive Applicability.--Section 803(c) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81; 125 Stat. 1485; 10 U.S.C. 2324 note) is amended by striking 
``amendments made by'' and all that follows and inserting ``amendments 
made by this section shall apply with respect to costs of compensation 
incurred after January 1, 2012, under contracts entered into on or 
after December 31, 2011.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take 
effect as of December 31, 2011, and shall apply as if included in the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 as enacted.
    SEC. 824. TREATMENT OF INDEPENDENT RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS 
      ON CERTAIN CONTRACTS.
    (a) Independent Research and Development Costs: Allowable Costs.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2372 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2372. Independent research and development costs: allowable 
    costs
    ``(a) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations governing the payment by the Department of Defense of 
expenses incurred by contractors for independent research and 
development costs. Such regulations shall provide that expenses 
incurred for independent research and development shall be reported 
independently from other allowable indirect costs.
    ``(b) Costs Treated as Fair and Reasonable, and Allowable, 
Expenses.--The regulations prescribed under subsection (a) shall 
provide that independent research and development costs shall be 
considered a fair and reasonable, and allowable, indirect expense on 
Department of Defense contracts.
    ``(c) Additional Controls.--Subject to subsection (d), the 
regulations prescribed under subsection (a) may include the following 
provisions:
        ``(1) Controls on the reimbursement of costs to the contractor 
    for expenses incurred for independent research and development to 
    ensure that such costs were incurred for independent research and 
    development.
        ``(2) Implementation of regular methods for transmission--
            ``(A) from the Department of Defense to contractors, in a 
        reasonable manner, of timely and comprehensive information 
        regarding planned or expected needs of the Department of 
        Defense for future technology and advanced capability; and
            ``(B) from contractors to the Department of Defense, in a 
        reasonable manner, of information regarding progress by the 
        contractor on the independent research and development programs 
        of the contractor.
    ``(d) Limitations on Regulations.--Regulations prescribed under 
subsection (a) may not include provisions that would infringe on the 
independence of a contractor to choose which technologies to pursue in 
its independent research and development program if the chief executive 
officer of the contractor determines that expenditures will advance the 
needs of the Department of Defense for future technology and advanced 
capability as transmitted pursuant to subsection (c)(3)(A).
    ``(e) Effective Date.--The regulations prescribed under subsection 
(a) shall apply to indirect costs incurred on or after October 1, 
2017.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 139 is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    2372 and inserting the following new item:

``2372. Independent research and development costs: allowable costs''.

    (b) Bid and Proposal Costs: Allowable Costs.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2372 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2372a. Bid and proposal costs: allowable costs
    ``(a) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations governing the payment by the Department of Defense of 
expenses incurred by contractors for bid and proposal costs. Such 
regulations shall provide that expenses incurred for bid and proposal 
costs shall be reported independently from other allowable indirect 
costs.
    ``(b) Costs Allowable as Indirect Expenses.--The regulations 
prescribed under subsection (a) shall provide that bid and proposal 
costs shall be allowable as indirect expenses on covered contracts, as 
defined in section 2324(l) of this title, to the extent that those 
costs are allocable, reasonable, and not otherwise unallowable by law 
or under the Federal Acquisition Regulation.
    ``(c) Goal for Reimbursable Bid and Proposal Costs.--The Secretary 
shall establish a goal each fiscal year limiting the amount of 
reimbursable bid and proposal costs paid by the Department of Defense 
to an amount equal to not more than one percent of the total aggregate 
industry sales to the Department of Defense. To achieve such goal, the 
Secretary may not limit the payment of allowable bid and proposal costs 
for the covered year.
    ``(d) Panel.--(1) If the Department of Defense exceeds the goal 
established under subsection (c) for a fiscal year, within 180 days 
after exceeding the goal, the Secretary shall establish an advisory 
panel. The panel shall be supported by the Defense Acquisition 
University and the National Defense University, including 
administrative support.
    ``(2) The panel shall be composed of nine individuals who are 
recognized experts in acquisition and procurement policy appointed by 
the Secretary. In making such appointments, the Secretary shall ensure 
that the members of the panel reflect diverse experiences in the public 
and private sector.
    ``(3) The panel shall review laws, regulations, and practices that 
contribute to the expenses incurred by contractors for bids and 
proposals in the fiscal year concerned and recommend changes to such 
laws, regulations, and practices that may reduce expenses incurred by 
contractors for bids and proposals.
    ``(4)(A) Not later than six months after the establishment of the 
panel, the panel shall submit to the Secretary and the congressional 
defense committees an interim report on the findings of the panel.
        ``(B) Not later than one year after the establishment of the 
    panel, the panel shall submit to the Secretary and the 
    congressional defense committees a final report on the findings of 
    the panel.
    ``(5) The panel shall terminate on the day the panel submits the 
final report under paragraph (4)(B).
    ``(6) The Secretary of Defense may use amounts available in the 
Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund 
established under section 1705 of this title to support the activities 
of the panel established under this subsection.
    ``(e) Effective Date.--The regulations prescribed under subsection 
(a) shall apply to indirect costs incurred on or after October 1, 
2017.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting the following 
    new item:

``2372a. Bid and proposal costs: allowable costs''.

    (c) Report on Elements Contributing to Expenses Incurred by 
Contractors for Bids and Proposals.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
    contract with an independent entity to study the laws, regulations, 
    and practices relating to expenses incurred by contractors for bids 
    and proposals.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after receipt of the 
    contract required by paragraph (1), the independent entity shall 
    submit to the Department of Defense and the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the laws, regulations, or practices relating 
    to expenses incurred by contractors for bids and recommendations 
    for changes to such laws, regulations, or practices that may reduce 
    expenses incurred by contractors for bids and proposals.
    (d) Defense Contract Audit Agency: Annual Report.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 2313a of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (6) and (7), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraphs:
        ``(3) a summary, set forth separately by dollar amount and 
    percentage, of indirect costs for independent research and 
    development incurred by contractors in the previous fiscal year;
        ``(4) a summary, set forth separately by dollar amount and 
    percentage, of indirect costs for bid and proposal costs incurred 
    by contractors in the previous fiscal year;''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
    shall take effect on October 1, 2018.
    SEC. 825. EXCEPTION TO REQUIREMENT TO INCLUDE COST OR PRICE TO THE 
      GOVERNMENT AS A FACTOR IN THE EVALUATION OF PROPOSALS FOR CERTAIN 
      MULTIPLE-AWARD TASK OR DELIVERY ORDER CONTRACTS.
    (a) Exception to Requirement to Include Cost or Price as Factor.--
Section 2305(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A)--
            (A) in clause (i), by inserting ``(except as provided in 
        subparagraph (C))'' after ``shall''; and
            (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``(except as provided in 
        subparagraph (C))'' after ``shall''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
        ``(C) If the head of an agency issues a solicitation for 
    multiple task or delivery order contracts under section 
    2304a(d)(1)(B) of this title for the same or similar services and 
    intends to make a contract award to each qualifying offeror--
            ``(i) cost or price to the Federal Government need not, at 
        the Government's discretion, be considered under clause (ii) of 
        subparagraph (A) as an evaluation factor for the contract 
        award; and
            ``(ii) if, pursuant to clause (i), cost or price to the 
        Federal Government is not considered as an evaluation factor 
        for the contract award--
                ``(I) the disclosure requirement of clause (iii) of 
            subparagraph (A) shall not apply; and
                ``(II) cost or price to the Federal Government shall be 
            considered in conjunction with the issuance pursuant to 
            section 2304c(b) of this title of a task or delivery order 
            under any contract resulting from the solicitation.
        ``(D) In subparagraph (C), the term `qualifying offeror' means 
    an offeror that--
            ``(i) is determined to be a responsible source;
            ``(ii) submits a proposal that conforms to the requirements 
        of the solicitation; and
            ``(iii) the contracting officer has no reason to believe 
        would likely offer other than fair and reasonable pricing.
        ``(E) Subparagraph (C) shall not apply to multiple task or 
    delivery order contracts if the solicitation provides for sole 
    source task or delivery order contracts pursuant to section 8(a) of 
    the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)).''.
    (b) Amendment to Procedures Relating to Orders Under Multiple-award 
Contracts.--Section 2304c(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``or'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) the task or delivery order satisfies one of the 
    exceptions in section 2304(c) of this title to the requirement to 
    use competitive procedures.''.
    SEC. 826. EXTENSION OF PROGRAM FOR COMPREHENSIVE SMALL BUSINESS 
      CONTRACTING PLANS.
    Section 834(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Years 1990 and 1991 (15 U.S.C. 637 note) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2027''.
    SEC. 827. TREATMENT OF SIDE-BY-SIDE TESTING OF CERTAIN EQUIPMENT, 
      MUNITIONS, AND TECHNOLOGIES MANUFACTURED AND DEVELOPED UNDER 
      COOPERATIVE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENTS AS USE OF 
      COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES.
    Section 2350a(g) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The use of side-by-side testing under this subsection may be 
considered to be the use of competitive procedures for purposes of 
chapter 137 of this title, when procuring items within 5 years after an 
initial determination that the items have been successfully tested and 
found to satisfy United States military requirements or to correct 
operational deficiencies.''.
    SEC. 828. DEFENSE ACQUISITION CHALLENGE PROGRAM AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Expansion of Scope To Include Systems-of-systems and 
Functions.--Paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of section 2359b of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``or system'' and all 
that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting the 
following: ``system, or system-of-systems level of an existing 
Department of Defense acquisition program, or to address any broader 
functional challenge to Department of Defense missions that may not 
fall within an acquisition program, that would result in improvements 
in performance, affordability, manufacturability, or operational 
capability of that acquisition program or function.''.
    (b) Treatment of Challenge Proposal Procedures as Use of 
Competitive Procedures.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (j) and (k) as subsections (k) 
    and (l), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (i) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(j) Treatment of Use of Certain Procedures as Use of Competitive 
Procedures.--The use of general solicitation competitive procedures 
established under subsection (c) shall be considered to be the use of 
competitive procedures for purposes of chapter 137 of this title.''.
    (c) Extension of Sunset for Pilot Program for Programs Other Than 
Major Defense Acquisition Programs.--Such section is further amended in 
paragraph (5) of subsection (l), as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) 
of this subsection, by striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2021''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(3), by inserting ``or functions'' after 
    ``acquisition programs'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(4)(A)--
            (A) by striking ``and'' at the end of clause (i);
            (B) by striking the period at the end of clause (ii) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
        ``(iii) any functional challenges of importance to Department 
    of Defense missions.'';
        (3) in subsection (c)(5), by adding at the end the following 
    new subparagraph:
            ``(D) Whether the challenge proposal is likely to result in 
        improvements to any functional challenges of importance to 
        Department of Defense missions, and whether the proposal could 
        be implemented rapidly, at an acceptable cost, and without 
        unacceptable disruption to such missions.''; and
        (4) in subsection (c)(5)(B) and in subsection (e)(1), by 
    striking ``or system'' and inserting ``system, or system-of-
    systems''.
    SEC. 829. PREFERENCE FOR FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS.
    (a) Establishment of Preference.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Defense Federal Acquisition 
Regulation Supplement shall be revised to establish a preference for 
fixed-price contracts, including fixed-price incentive fee contracts, 
in the determination of contract type.
    (b) Approval Requirement for Certain Cost-type Contracts.--
        (1) In general.--A contracting officer of the Department of 
    Defense may not enter into a cost-type contract described in 
    paragraph (2) unless the contract is approved by the service 
    acquisition executive of the military department concerned, the 
    head of the Defense Agency concerned, the commander of the 
    combatant command concerned, or the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (as applicable).
        (2) Covered contracts.--A contract described in this paragraph 
    is--
            (A) a cost-type contract in excess of $50,000,000, in the 
        case of a contract entered into on or after October 1, 2018, 
        and before October 1, 2019; and
            (B) a cost-type contract in excess of $25,000,000, in the 
        case of a contract entered into on or after October 1, 2019.
    SEC. 830. REQUIREMENT TO USE FIRM FIXED-PRICE CONTRACTS FOR FOREIGN 
      MILITARY SALES.
    (a) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations to require the use of firm fixed-price contracts for 
foreign military sales.
    (b) Exceptions.--The regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection 
(a) shall include exceptions that may be exercised if the foreign 
country that is the counterparty to a foreign military sale--
        (1) has established in writing a preference for a different 
    contract type; or
        (2) requests in writing that a different contract type be used 
    for a specific foreign military sale.
    (c) Waiver Authority.--The regulations prescribed pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall include a waiver that may be exercised by the 
Secretary of Defense or his designee if the Secretary or his designee 
determines on a case-by-case basis that a different contract type is in 
the best interest of the United States and American taxpayers.
    (d) Pilot Program for Acceleration of Foreign Military Sales.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    pilot program to reform and accelerate the contracting and pricing 
    processes associated with full rate production of major weapon 
    systems for no more than 10 foreign military sales contracts by--
            (A) basing price reasonableness determinations on actual 
        cost and pricing data for purchases of the same product for the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (B) reducing the cost and pricing data to be submitted in 
        accordance with section 2306a of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Expiration of authority.--Authority for the pilot program 
    under this subsection expires on January 1, 2020.
    SEC. 831. PREFERENCE FOR PERFORMANCE-BASED CONTRACT PAYMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2307(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``Preference for'' 
    before ``Performance-based'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as 
    subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively;
        (3) by striking ``Wherever practicable, payment under 
    subsection (a) shall be made'' and inserting ``(1) Whenever 
    practicable, payments under subsection (a) shall be made using 
    performance-based payments''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) Performance-based payments shall not be conditioned upon 
costs incurred in contract performance but on the achievement of 
performance outcomes listed in paragraph (1).
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that nontraditional 
defense contractors and other private sector companies are eligible for 
performance-based payments, consistent with best commercial practices.
    ``(4)(A) In order to receive performance-based payments, a 
contractor's accounting system shall be in compliance with Generally 
Accepted Accounting Principles, and there shall be no requirement for a 
contractor to develop Government-unique accounting systems or practices 
as a prerequisite for agreeing to receive performance-based payments.
    ``(B) Nothing in this section shall be construed to grant the 
Defense Contract Audit Agency the authority to audit compliance with 
Generally Accepted Accounting Principles.''.
    (b) Regulations.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall revise the 
Department of Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement to 
conform with section 2307(b) of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by subsection (a).
    SEC. 832. CONTRACTOR INCENTIVES TO ACHIEVE SAVINGS AND IMPROVE 
      MISSION PERFORMANCE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Defense Acquisition University shall develop and implement a 
training program for Department of Defense acquisition personnel on 
fixed-priced incentive fee contracts, public-private partnerships, 
performance-based contracting, and other authorities in law and 
regulation designed to give incentives to contractors to achieve long-
term savings and improve administrative practices and mission 
performance.
    SEC. 833. SUNSET AND REPEAL OF CERTAIN CONTRACTING PROVISIONS.
    (a) Sunsets.--
        (1) Plantations and farms: operation, maintenance, and 
    improvement.--Section 2421 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2018.''.
        (2) Requirement to establish cost, performance, and schedule 
    goals for major defense acquisition programs and each phase of 
    related acquisition cycles.--Section 2220 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(c) Sunset.--The authority under this section shall terminate on 
September 30, 2018.''.
    (b) Repeals.--
        (1) Limitation on use of operation and maintenance funds for 
    purchase of investment items.--
            (A) In general.--Section 2245a of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of subchapter I of chapter 134 of such title is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 2245a.
            (C) Conforming amendment.--Section 166a(e)(1)(A) of such 
        title is amended by striking ``the investment unit cost 
        threshold in effect under section 2245a of this title'' and 
        inserting ``$250,000''.
        (2) Information technology purchases: tracking and 
    management.--
            (A) In general.--Section 2225 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 131 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2225.
            (C) Conforming amendments.--
                (i) Section 812 of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (Public Law 106-393; 
            114 Stat. 1654A-213; 10 U.S.C. 2225 note) is amended by 
            striking subsections (b) and (c).
                (ii) Section 2330a(j) of title 10, United States Code, 
            is amended--

                    (I) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (II) by redesignating paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) 
                as paragraphs (2), (3), and (4), respectively; and
                    (III) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraphs:

        ``(5) Simplified acquisition threshold.--The term `simplified 
    acquisition threshold' has the meaning given the term in section 
    134 of title 41.
        ``(6) Small business act definitions.--
            ``(A) The term `small business concern' has the meaning 
        given such term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 632).
            ``(B) The terms `small business concern owned and 
        controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
        individuals' and `small business concern owned and controlled 
        by women' have the meanings given such terms, respectively, in 
        section 8(d)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
        637(d)(3)).''.
                (iii) Section 222(d) of the National Defense 
            Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 
            10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended by striking ``as defined in 
            section 2225(f)(3)'' and inserting ``as defined in section 
            2330a(j)''.
        (3) Procurement of copier paper containing specified 
    percentages of post-consumer recycled content.--
            (A) In general.--Section 2378 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 140 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2378.
        (4) Limitation on procurement of table and kitchen equipment 
    for officers' quarters.--
            (A) In general.--Section 2387 of title 10, United States 
        Code, is repealed.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 141 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2387.
        (5) Implementation of electronic commerce capability.--
            (A) Repeal.--
                (i) Section 2302c of title 10, United States Code, is 
            repealed.
                (ii) Section 2301 of title 41, United States Code, is 
            amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Inapplicability to Department of Defense.--In this section, 
the term `executive agency' does not include the Department of 
Defense.''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 137 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 2302c.
    SEC. 834. FLEXIBILITY IN CONTRACTING AWARD PROGRAM.
    (a) Establishment of Award Program.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
create an award to recognize those acquisition programs and 
professionals that make the best use of the flexibilities and 
authorities granted by the Federal Acquisition Regulation and 
Department of Defense Instruction 5000.02 (Operation of the Defense 
Acquisition System).
    (b) Purpose of Award.--The award established under subsection (a) 
shall recognize outstanding performers whose approach to program 
management emphasizes innovation and local adaptation, including the 
use of--
        (1) simplified acquisition procedures;
        (2) inherent flexibilities within the Federal Acquisition 
    Regulation;
        (3) commercial contracting approaches;
        (4) public-private partnership agreements and practices;
        (5) cost-sharing arrangements;
        (6) innovative contractor incentive practices; and
        (7) other innovative implementations of acquisition 
    flexibilities.
    SEC. 835. PROTECTION OF TASK ORDER COMPETITION.
    (a) Amendment to Value of Authorized Task Order Protests.--Section 
2304c(e)(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$25,000,000''.
    (b) Repeal of Effective Date.--Section 4106(f) of title 41, United 
States Code, is amended by striking paragraph (3).
    SEC. 836. CONTRACT CLOSEOUT AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may close out a contract 
or group of contracts as described in subsection (b) through the 
issuance of one or more modifications to such contracts without 
completing a reconciliation audit or other corrective action. To 
accomplish closeout of such contracts--
        (1) remaining contract balances may be offset with balances in 
    other contract line items within a contract regardless of the year 
    or type of appropriation obligated to fund each contract line item 
    and regardless of whether the appropriation for such contract line 
    item has closed; and
        (2) remaining contract balances may be offset with balances on 
    other contracts regardless of the year or type of appropriation 
    obligated to fund each contract and regardless of whether the 
    appropriation has closed.
    (b) Covered Contracts.--This section covers any contract or group 
of contracts between the Department of Defense and a defense 
contractor, each one of which--
        (1) was entered into prior to fiscal year 2000;
        (2) has no further supplies or services deliverables due under 
    the terms and conditions of the contract; and
        (3) is determined by the Secretary of Defense to be not 
    otherwise reconcilable because--
            (A) the records have been destroyed or lost; or
            (B) the records are available but the Secretary of Defense 
        has determined that the time or effort required to determine 
        the exact amount owed to the United States Government or amount 
        owed to the contractor is disproportionate to the amount at 
        issue.
    (c) Negotiated Settlement Authority.--Any contract or group of 
contracts covered by this section may be closed out through a 
negotiated settlement with the contractor.
    (d) Waiver Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
    waive any provision of acquisition law or regulation to carry out 
    the authority under subsection (a).
        (2) Notification requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    notify the congressional defense committees not later than 10 days 
    after exercising the authority under subsection (d). The notice 
    shall include an identification of each provision of law or 
    regulation waived.
    (e) Adjustment and Closure of Records.--After closeout of any 
contract described in subsection (b) using the authority under this 
section, the payment or accounting offices concerned may adjust and 
close any open finance and accounting records relating to the contract.
    (f) No Liability.--No liability shall attach to any accounting, 
certifying, or payment official, or any contracting officer, for any 
adjustments or closeout made pursuant to the authority under this 
section.
    (g) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations for the administration of the authority under this section.
    SEC. 837. CLOSEOUT OF OLD DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY CONTRACTS.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of the Navy may close out contracts 
described in subsection (b) through the issuance of one or more 
modifications to such contracts without completing further 
reconciliation audits or corrective actions other than those described 
in this section. To accomplish closeout of such contracts--
        (1) remaining contract balances may be offset with balances in 
    other contract line items within a contract regardless of the year 
    or type of appropriation obligated to fund each contract line item 
    and regardless of whether the appropriation for such contract line 
    item has closed; and
        (2) remaining contract balances may be offset with balances on 
    other contracts regardless of the year or type of appropriation 
    obligated to fund each contract and regardless of whether the 
    appropriation has closed.
    (b) Contracts Covered.--The contracts covered by this section are a 
group of contracts that are with one contractor and identified by the 
Secretary, each one of which is a contract--
        (1) to design, construct, repair, or support the construction 
    or repair of Navy submarines that--
            (A) was entered into between fiscal years 1974 and 1998; 
        and
            (B) has no further supply or services deliverables due 
        under the terms and conditions of the contract;
        (2) with respect to which the Secretary of the Navy has 
    established the total final contract value; and
        (3) with respect to which the Secretary of the Navy has 
    determined that the final allowable cost may have a negative or 
    positive unliquidated obligation balance for which it would be 
    difficult to determine the year or type of appropriation because--
            (A) the records for the contract have been destroyed or 
        lost; or
            (B) the records for the contract are available but the 
        contracting officer, in collaboration with the certifying 
        official, has determined that a discrepancy is of such a 
        minimal value that the time and effort required to determine 
        the cause of an out-of-balance condition is disproportionate to 
        the amount of the discrepancy.
    (c) Closeout Terms.--The contracts described in subsection (b) may 
be closed out--
        (1) upon receipt of $581,803 from the contractor to be 
    deposited into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts;
        (2) without seeking further amounts from the contractor; and
        (3) without payment to the contractor of any amounts that may 
    be due under any such contracts.
    (d) Waiver Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy is authorized to 
    waive any provision of acquisition law or regulation to carry out 
    the authority under subsection (a).
        (2) Notification requirement.--The Secretary of the Navy shall 
    notify the congressional defense committees not later than 10 days 
    after exercising the authority under paragraph (1). The notice 
    shall include an identification of each provision of law or 
    regulation waived.
    (e) Adjustment and Closure of Records.--After closeout of any 
contract described in subsection (b) using the authority under this 
section, the payment or accounting offices concerned may adjust and 
close any open finance and accounting records relating to the contract.
    (f) No Liability.--No liability shall attach to any accounting, 
certifying, or payment official or contracting officer for any 
adjustments or closeout made pursuant to the authority under this 
section.
    (g) Expiration of Authority.--The authority under this section 
shall expire upon receipt of the funds identified in subsection (c)(1).

 Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

    SEC. 841. CHANGE IN DATE OF SUBMISSION TO CONGRESS OF SELECTED 
      ACQUISITION REPORTS.
    Section 2432(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``45'' the first place it occurs and inserting ``30''.
    SEC. 842. AMENDMENTS RELATING TO INDEPENDENT COST ESTIMATION AND 
      COST ANALYSIS.
    (a) Amendments.--Section 2334 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(3), by striking ``selection of confidence 
    levels'' both places it appears and inserting ``discussion of 
    risk'';
        (2) in subsection (a)(6)--
            (A) by inserting ``or approve'' after ``conduct'';
            (B) by striking ``major defense acquisition programs'' and 
        all that follows through ``Authority--'' and inserting ``all 
        major defense acquisition programs and major subprograms--''; 
        and
            (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or upon the 
        request'' and all that follows through the semicolon at the end 
        and inserting ``, upon the request of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, or upon the 
        request of the milestone decision authority'';
        (3) by redesignating subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f) as 
    subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (h), respectively;
        (4) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Independent Cost Estimate Required Before Approval.--(1) A 
milestone decision authority may not approve entering a milestone phase 
of a major defense acquisition program or major subprogram unless an 
independent cost estimate has been conducted or approved by the 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation and considered by 
the milestone decision authority that--
        ``(A) for the technology maturation and risk reduction phase, 
    includes the identification and sensitivity analysis of key cost 
    drivers that may affect life-cycle costs of the program or 
    subprogram; and
        ``(B) for the engineering and manufacturing development phase, 
    or production and deployment phase, includes a cost estimate of the 
    full life-cycle cost of the program or subprogram.
    ``(2) The regulations governing the content and submission of 
independent cost estimates required by subsection (a) shall require 
that the independent cost estimate of the full life-cycle cost of a 
program or subprogram include--
        ``(A) all costs of development, procurement, military 
    construction, operations and support, and trained manpower to 
    operate, maintain, and support the program or subprogram upon full 
    operational deployment, without regard to funding source or 
    management control; and
        ``(B) an analysis to support decisionmaking that identifies and 
    evaluates alternative courses of action that may reduce cost and 
    risk, and result in more affordable programs and less costly 
    systems.'';
        (5) in subsection (d), as so redesignated, in paragraph (3), by 
    striking ``confidence level'' and inserting ``discussion of risk'';
        (6) in subsection (e), as so redesignated--
            (A) by amending the subsection heading to read as follows: 
        ``Discussion of Risk in Cost Estimates.--'';
            (B) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
        ``(1) issue guidance requiring a discussion of risk, the 
    potential impacts of risk on program costs, and approaches to 
    mitigate risk in cost estimates for major defense acquisition 
    programs and major subprograms;'';
            (C) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by striking ``such confidence level provides'' and 
            inserting ``cost estimates are developed, to the extent 
            practicable, based on historical actual cost information 
            that is based on demonstrated contractor and Government 
            performance and that such estimates provide''; and
                (ii) by inserting ``or subprogram'' after ``the 
            program''; and
            (D) in paragraph (3), by striking ``disclosure required by 
        paragraph (1)'' and inserting ``information required in the 
        guidance under paragraph (1)''; and
        (7) by inserting after subsection (f), as so redesignated, the 
    following new subsection:
    ``(g) Guidelines and Collection of Cost Data.--(1) The Director of 
Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation shall, in consultation with the 
Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, 
develop policies, procedures, guidance, and a collection method to 
ensure that quality acquisition cost data are collected to facilitate 
cost estimation and comparison across acquisition programs.
    ``(2) The program manager and contracting officer for each 
acquisition program in an amount greater than $100,000,000, in 
consultation with the cost estimating component of the relevant 
military department or Defense Agency, shall ensure that cost data are 
collected in accordance with the requirements of paragraph (1).
    ``(3) The requirement under paragraph (1) may be waived only by the 
Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments to Add Subprograms.--Section 2334 of such 
title is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting ``or major subprogram'' 
    before ``under chapter 144'';
        (2) in paragraphs (3), (4), and (5) of subsection (a) and in 
    subsection (c)(1) (as redesignated by subsection (a) of this 
    section), by striking ``major defense acquisition programs and 
    major automated information system programs'' and inserting ``major 
    defense acquisition programs and major subprograms'' each place it 
    appears;
        (3) in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (d) (as so 
    redesignated), and in subsection (f)(4) (as so redesignated), by 
    striking ``major defense acquisition program or major automated 
    information system program'' and inserting ``major defense 
    acquisition program or major subprogram'' each place it appears;
        (4) in subsection (d)(4) (as so redesignated), by inserting 
    before the period ``or major subprogram'';
        (5) in subsection (e)(3)(B) (as so redesignated), by inserting 
    ``or major subprogram'' after ``major defense acquisition 
    program''; and
        (6) in subsection (f)(3) (as so redesignated), by striking 
    ``major defense acquisition program and major automated information 
    system program'' and inserting ``major defense acquisition program 
    and major subprogram''.
    (c) Repeal.--Chapter 144 of such title is amended--
        (1) by striking section 2434; and
        (2) in the table of sections at the beginning of such chapter, 
    by striking the item relating to such section.
    SEC. 843. REVISIONS TO MILESTONE B DETERMINATIONS.
    Section 2366b(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``acquisition cost in'' 
    and all that follows through the semicolon, and inserting ``life-
    cycle cost;''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``funding is'' and all 
    that follows through ``made,'' and inserting ``funding is expected 
    to be available to execute the product development and production 
    plan for the program,''.
    SEC. 844. REVIEW AND REPORT ON SUSTAINMENT PLANNING IN THE 
      ACQUISITION PROCESS.
    (a) Requirement for Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct 
a review of the extent to which sustainment matters are considered in 
decisions related to the requirements, research and development, 
acquisition, cost estimating, and programming and budgeting processes 
for major defense acquisition programs. The review shall include the 
following:
        (1) A determination of whether information related to the 
    operation and sustainment of major defense acquisition programs, 
    including cost data and intellectual property requirements, is 
    available to inform decisions made during those processes.
        (2) If such information exists, an evaluation of the 
    completeness, timeliness, quality, and suitability of the 
    information for aiding in decisions made during those processes.
        (3) A determination of whether information related to the 
    operation and sustainment of existing major weapon systems is used 
    to forecast the operation and sustainment needs of major weapon 
    systems proposed for or under development.
        (4) A description of the potential benefits from improved 
    completeness, timeliness, quality, and suitability of data on 
    operation and support costs and increased consideration of such 
    data.
        (5) Recommendations for improving access to, analyses of, and 
    consideration of operation and support cost data.
        (6) An assessment of product support strategies for major 
    weapon systems required by section 2337 of title 10, United States 
    Code, or other similar life-cycle sustainment strategies, including 
    an evaluation of--
            (A) the stage at which such strategies are developed during 
        the life of a major weapon system;
            (B) the content and completeness of such strategies, 
        including whether such strategies address--
                (i) all aspects of total life-cycle management of a 
            major weapon system, including product support, logistics, 
            product support engineering, supply chain integration, 
            maintenance, and software sustainment; and
                (ii) the capabilities, capacity, and resource 
            constraints of the organic industrial base and the materiel 
            commands of the military department concerned;
            (C) the extent to which such strategies or their elements 
        are or should be incorporated into the acquisition strategy 
        required by section 2431a of title 10, United States Code;
            (D) the extent to which such strategies influence the 
        planning for major defense acquisition programs; and
            (E) the extent to which such strategies influence decisions 
        related to the life-cycle management and product support of 
        major weapon systems.
        (7) An assessment of how effectively the military departments 
    consider sustainment matters at key decision points for acquisition 
    and life-cycle management in accordance with the requirements of 
    sections 2431a, 2366a, 2366b, and 2337 of title 10, United States 
    Code, and section 832 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note).
        (8) Recommendations for improving the consideration of 
    sustainment during the requirements, acquisition, cost estimating, 
    programming and budgeting processes.
        (9) An assessment of whether research and development efforts 
    and adoption of commercial technologies is prioritized to reduce 
    sustainment costs.
        (10) An assessment of whether alternate financing methods, 
    including share-in-savings approaches, public-private partnerships, 
    and energy savings performance contracts, could be used to 
    encourage the development and adoption of technologies and 
    practices that will reduce sustainment costs.
        (11) An assessment of private sector best practices in 
    assessing and reducing sustainment costs for complex systems.
    (b) Agreement With Independent Entity.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall enter 
into an agreement with an independent entity with appropriate expertise 
to conduct the review required by subsection (a). The Secretary shall 
ensure that the independent entity has access to all data, information, 
and personnel required, and is funded, to satisfactorily complete the 
review required by subsection (a). The agreement also shall require the 
entity to provide to the Secretary a report on the findings of the 
entity.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than April 1, 2017, the Secretary shall 
provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and House of Representatives on the preliminary findings of the 
independent entity.
    (d) Submission to Congress.--Not later than August 1, 2017, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a copy 
of the report of the independent entity, along with comments on the 
report, proposed revisions or clarifications to laws related to 
lifecycle management or sustainment planning for major weapon systems, 
and a description of any actions the Secretary may take to revise or 
clarify regulations and practices related to life-cycle management or 
sustainment planning for major weapon systems.
    SEC. 845. REVISION TO DISTRIBUTION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON OPERATIONAL 
      TEST AND EVALUATION.
    Section 139(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by inserting ``the Secretaries of the military 
        departments,'' after ``Logistics,''; and
            (B) by striking ``10 days'' and all that follows through 
        ``title 31'' and inserting ``January 31 of each year, through 
        January 31, 2021''; and
        (2) in paragraph (5), by inserting after ``Secretary'' the 
    following: ``of Defense and the Secretaries of the military 
    departments''.
    SEC. 846. REPEAL OF MAJOR AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEMS PROVISIONS.
    Effective September 30, 2017--
        (1) chapter 144A of title 10, United States Code, is repealed;
        (2) the tables of chapters at the beginning of subtitle A of 
    such title, and at the beginning of part IV of subtitle A, are 
    amended by striking the item relating to chapter 144A; and
        (3) section 2334(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``or a major automated information system under 
    chapter 144A of this title''.
    SEC. 847. REVISIONS TO DEFINITION OF MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Section 2430 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended in subsection (a)--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs 
    (A) and (B), respectively;
        (2) by striking ``In this chapter'' and inserting ``(1) Except 
    as provided under paragraph (2), in this chapter''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) In this chapter, the term `major defense acquisition program' 
does not include an acquisition program or project that is carried out 
using the rapid fielding or rapid prototyping acquisition pathway under 
section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note).''.
    (b) Annual Reporting.--The Secretary of Defense shall include in 
each comprehensive annual Selected Acquisition Report submitted under 
section 2432 of title 10, United States Code, a listing of all programs 
or projects being developed or procured under the exceptions to the 
definition of major defense acquisition program set forth in paragraph 
(2) of section 2430(a) of United States Code, as added by subsection 
(a)(1)(C) of this section.
    SEC. 848. ACQUISITION STRATEGY.
    Section 2431a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by inserting ``, or the milestone 
    decision authority, when the milestone decision authority is the 
    service acquisition executive of the military department that is 
    managing the program,'' after ``the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics'';
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, or the milestone 
        decision authority, when the milestone decision authority is 
        the service acquisition executive of the military department 
        that is managing the program,'' after ``the Under Secretary''; 
        and
            (B) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking ``, in accordance with 
        section 2431b of this title''; and
        (3) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``(1) Subject to the 
        authority, direction, and control of the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the'' and 
        inserting ``The''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``because of a change 
        described in paragraph (1)(F)'' after ``for a program or 
        system''.
    SEC. 849. IMPROVED LIFE-CYCLE COST CONTROL.
    (a) Modified Guidance for Rapid Fielding Pathway.--Section 
804(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) a process for identifying and exploiting 
        opportunities to use the rapid fielding pathway to reduce total 
        ownership costs.''.
    (b) Life-cycle Cost Management.--Section 805(2) of such Act (Public 
Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended by inserting ``life-cycle 
cost management,'' after ``budgeting,''.
    (c) Sustainment Reviews.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2441. Sustainment reviews
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of each military department shall 
conduct a sustainment review of each major weapon system not later than 
five years after declaration of initial operational capability of a 
major defense acquisition program and throughout the life cycle of the 
weapon system to assess the product support strategy, performance, and 
operation and support costs of the weapon system. For any review after 
the first one, the Secretary concerned shall use availability and 
reliability thresholds and cost estimates as the basis for the 
circumstances that prompt such a review. The results of the sustainment 
review shall be documented in a memorandum by the relevant decision 
authority.
    ``(b) Elements.--At a minimum, the review required under subsection 
(a) shall include the following elements:
        ``(1) An independent cost estimate for the remainder of the 
    life cycle of the program.
        ``(2) A comparison of actual costs to the amount of funds 
    budgeted and appropriated in the previous five years, and if 
    funding shortfalls exist, an explanation of the implications on 
    equipment availability.
        ``(3) A comparison between the assumed and achieved system 
    reliabilities.
        ``(4) An analysis of the most cost-effective source of repairs 
    and maintenance.
        ``(5) An evaluation of the cost of consumables and depot-level 
    repairables.
        ``(6) An evaluation of the costs of information technology, 
    networks, computer hardware, and software maintenance and upgrades.
        ``(7) As applicable, an assessment of the actual fuel 
    efficiencies compared to the projected fuel efficiencies as 
    demonstrated in tests or operations.
        ``(8) As applicable, a comparison of actual manpower 
    requirements to previous estimates.
        ``(9) An analysis of whether accurate and complete data are 
    being reported in the cost systems of the military department 
    concerned, and if deficiencies exist, a plan to update the data and 
    ensure accurate and complete data are submitted in the future.
    ``(c) Coordination.--The review required under subsection (a) shall 
be conducted in coordination with the requirements of section 2337 of 
this title and section 832 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note).''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``2441. Sustainment reviews.''.

    (d) Commercial Operational and Support Savings Initiative.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may establish a 
    commercial operational and support savings initiative to improve 
    readiness and reduce operations and support costs by inserting 
    existing commercial items or technology into military legacy 
    systems through the rapid development of prototypes and fielding of 
    production items based on current commercial technology.
        (2) Program priority.--The commercial operational and support 
    savings initiative shall fund programs that--
            (A) reduce the costs of owning and operating a military 
        system, including the costs of personnel, consumables, goods 
        and services, and sustaining the support and investment 
        associated with the peacetime operation of a weapon system;
            (B) take advantage of the commercial sector's technological 
        innovations by inserting commercial technology into fielded 
        weapon systems; and
            (C) emphasize prototyping and experimentation with new 
        technologies and concepts of operations.
        (3) Funding phases.--
            (A) In general.--Projects funded under the commercial 
        operational and support savings initiative shall consist of two 
        phases, Phase I and Phase II.
            (B) Phase i.--(i) Funds made available during Phase I shall 
        be used to perform the non-recurring engineering, testing, and 
        qualification that are typically needed to adapt a commercial 
        item or technology for use in a military system.
            (ii) Phase I shall include--
                (I) establishment of cost and performance metrics to 
            evaluate project success;
                (II) establishment of a transition plan and agreement 
            with a military department or Defense Agency for adoption 
            and sustainment of the technology or system; and
                (III) the development, fabrication, and delivery of a 
            demonstrated prototype to a military department for 
            installation into a fielded Department of Defense system.
            (iii) Programs shall be terminated if no agreement is 
        established within two years of project initiation.
            (iv) The Office of the Secretary of Defense may provide up 
        to 50 percent of Phase I funding for a project. The military 
        department or Defense Agency concerned may provide the 
        remainder of Phase I funding, which may be provided out of 
        operation and maintenance funding.
            (v) Phase I funding shall not exceed three years.
            (vi) Phase I projects shall be selected based on a merit-
        based process using criteria to be established by the Secretary 
        of Defense.
            (C) Phase ii.--(i) Phase II shall include the purchase of 
        limited production quantities of the prototype kits and 
        transition to a program of record for continued sustainment.
            (ii) Phase II awards may be made without competition if 
        general solicitation competitive procedures were used for the 
        selection of parties for participation in a Phase I project.
            (iii) Phase II awards may be made as firm fixed-price 
        awards.
        (4) Treatment as competitive procedures.--The use of a merit-
    based process for selection of projects under the commercial 
    operational and support savings initiative shall be considered to 
    be the use of competitive procedures for purposes of chapter 137 of 
    title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 850. AUTHORITY TO DESIGNATE INCREMENTS OR BLOCKS OF ITEMS 
      DELIVERED UNDER MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS AS MAJOR 
      SUBPROGRAMS FOR PURPOSES OF ACQUISITION REPORTING.
    Section 2430a(1)(B) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``major defense acquisition program to purchase satellites 
requires the delivery of satellites in two or more increments or 
blocks'' and inserting ``major defense acquisition program requires the 
delivery of two or more increments or blocks''.
    SEC. 851. REPORTING OF SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION ON DEPARTMENT 
      OF DEFENSE PROGRAMS.
    (a) Report Requirement.--Not later than March 31 of each year, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report covering the following matters for the preceding 
fiscal year:
        (1) For each prime contract goal established by section 
    15(g)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)), the 
    total value and percentage of prime contracts awarded by the 
    Department of Defense and attributed to each prime contract goal 
    for prime contracts awarded for major defense acquisition programs.
        (2) For each subcontract goal established by section 
    15(g)(1)(A) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)), the 
    total value and percentage of first tier subcontract awards 
    attributed to each subcontract goal for subcontracts awarded in 
    support of prime contracts awarded by the Department of Defense for 
    major defense acquisition programs.
        (3) For the prime contract and subcontract goals negotiated 
    with the Department of Defense pursuant to section 15(g)(2) of the 
    Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(2))--
            (A) the information reported by the Department of Defense 
        to the Small Business Administration pursuant to section 
        15(h)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(h)(1)); and
            (B) the information required by subparagraph (A) calculated 
        after excluding--
                (i) contracts awarded pursuant to chapter 85 of title 
            41, United States Code (popularly referred to as the 
            Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act);
                (ii) contracts awarded to the American Institute in 
            Taiwan;
                (iii) contracts awarded and performed outside of the 
            United States;
                (iv) acquisition on behalf of foreign governments, 
            entities, or international organizations; and
                (v) contracts for major defense acquisition programs.
    (b) Sunset.--The requirement to submit a report under subsection 
(a) shall not apply after the Secretary submits the report covering 
fiscal year 2020.
    SEC. 852. WAIVER OF CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION FOR ACQUISITION OF 
      TACTICAL MISSILES AND MUNITIONS GREATER THAN QUANTITY SPECIFIED 
      IN LAW.
    Section 2308(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The head'';
        (2) by inserting ``, except as provided in paragraph (2),'' 
    after ``but''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) A notification is not required under paragraph (1) if the end 
item being acquired in a higher quantity is an end item under a 
tactical missile program or a munitions program.''.
    SEC. 853. MULTIPLE PROGRAM MULTIYEAR CONTRACT PILOT DEMONSTRATION 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may conduct a multiyear 
contract, over a period of up to four years, for the purchase of units 
for multiple defense programs that are produced at common facilities at 
a high rate, and which maximize commonality, efficiencies, and quality, 
in order to provide maximum benefit to the Department of Defense. 
Contracts awarded under this section should allow for significant 
savings, as determined consistent with the authority under section 
2306b of title 10, United States Code, to be achieved as compared to 
using separate annual contracts under individual programs to purchase 
such units, and may include flexible delivery across the overall period 
of performance.
    (b) Scope.--The contracts authorized in subsection (a) shall at a 
minimum provide for the acquisition of units from three discrete 
programs from two of the military departments.
    (c) Documentation.--Each contract awarded under subsection (a) 
shall include the documentation required to be provided for a multiyear 
contract proposal under section 2306b(i) of title 10.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``high rate'' means total annual production across 
    the multiple defense programs of more than 200 end-items per year.
        (2) The term ``common facilities'' means production facilities 
    operating within the same general and allowable rate structure.
    (e) Sunset.--No new contracts may be awarded under the authority of 
this section after September 30, 2021.
    SEC. 854. KEY PERFORMANCE PARAMETER REDUCTION PILOT PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program under which the Secretary may identify at least one acquisition 
program in each military department for reduction of the total number 
of key performance parameters established for the program, for purposes 
of determining whether operational and programmatic outcomes of the 
program are improved by such reduction.
    (b) Limitation on Key Performance Parameters.--Any acquisition 
program identified for the pilot program carried out under subsection 
(a) shall establish no more than three key performance parameters, each 
of which shall describe a program-specific performance attribute. Any 
key performance parameters for such a program that are required by 
statute shall be treated as key system attributes.
    SEC. 855. MISSION INTEGRATION MANAGEMENT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish mission 
integration management activities for each mission area specified in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Covered Mission Areas.--The mission areas specified in this 
subsection are mission areas that involve multiple Armed Forces and 
multiple programs and, at a minimum, include the following:
        (1) Close air support.
        (2) Air defense and offensive and defensive counter-air.
        (3) Interdiction.
        (4) Intelligence, surveillance, and reconnaissance.
        (5) Any other overlapping mission area of significance, as 
    jointly designated by the Deputy Secretary of Defense and the Vice 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for purposes of this 
    subsection.
    (c) Qualifications.--Mission integration management activities 
shall be performed by qualified personnel from the acquisition and 
operational communities.
    (d) Responsibilities.--The mission integration management 
activities for a mission area under this section shall include--
        (1) development of technical infrastructure for engineering, 
    analysis, and test, including data, modeling, analytic tools, and 
    simulations;
        (2) the conduct of tests, demonstrations, exercises, and 
    focused experiments for compelling challenges and opportunities;
        (3) overseeing the implementation of section 2446c of title 10, 
    United States Code;
        (4) sponsoring and overseeing research on and development of 
    (including tests and demonstrations) automated tools for composing 
    systems of systems on demand;
        (5) developing mission-based inputs for the requirements 
    process, assessment of concepts, prototypes, design options, 
    budgeting and resource allocation, and program and portfolio 
    management; and
        (6) coordinating with commanders of the combatant commands on 
    the development of concepts of operation and operational plans.
    (e) Scope.--The mission integration management activities for a 
mission area under this subsection shall extend to the supporting 
elements for the mission area, such as communications, command and 
control, electronic warfare, and intelligence.
    (f) Funding.--There is authorized to be made available annually 
such amounts as the Secretary of Defense determines appropriate from 
the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 804(d) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) for mission integration management 
activities listed in subsection (d).
    (g) Strategy.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees, at the same time as the budget for 
the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018 is submitted to Congress 
pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, a strategy 
for mission integration management, including a resourcing strategy for 
mission integration managers to carry out the responsibilities 
specified in this section.

        Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

    SEC. 861. PROJECT MANAGEMENT.
    (a) Deputy Director for Management.--
        (1) Additional functions.--Section 503 of title 31, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Program and Project Management.--
        ``(1) Requirement.--Subject to the direction and approval of 
    the Director, the Deputy Director for Management or a designee 
    shall--
            ``(A) adopt governmentwide standards, policies, and 
        guidelines for program and project management for executive 
        agencies;
            ``(B) oversee implementation of program and project 
        management for the standards, policies, and guidelines 
        established under subparagraph (A);
            ``(C) chair the Program Management Policy Council 
        established under section 1126(b);
            ``(D) establish standards and policies for executive 
        agencies, consistent with widely accepted standards for program 
        and project management planning and delivery;
            ``(E) engage with the private sector to identify best 
        practices in program and project management that would improve 
        Federal program and project management;
            ``(F) conduct portfolio reviews to address programs 
        identified as high risk by the Government Accountability 
        Office;
            ``(G) not less than annually, conduct portfolio reviews of 
        agency programs in coordination with Project Management 
        Improvement Officers designated under section 1126(a)(1) to 
        assess the quality and effectiveness of program management; and
            ``(H) establish a 5-year strategic plan for program and 
        project management.
        ``(2) Application to department of defense.--Paragraph (1) 
    shall not apply to the Department of Defense to the extent that the 
    provisions of that paragraph are substantially similar to or 
    duplicative of--
            ``(A) the provisions of chapter 87 of title 10; or
            ``(B) policy, guidance, or instruction of the Department 
        related to program management.''.
        (2) Deadline for standards, policies, and guidelines.--Not 
    later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
    Deputy Director for Management of the Office of Management and 
    Budget shall issue the standards, policies, and guidelines required 
    under section 503(c) of title 31, United States Code, as added by 
    paragraph (1).
        (3) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
    which the standards, policies, and guidelines are issued under 
    paragraph (2), the Deputy Director for Management of the Office of 
    Management and Budget, in consultation with the Program Management 
    Policy Council established under section 1126(b) of title 31, 
    United States Code, as added by subsection (b)(1), and the Director 
    of the Office of Management and Budget, shall issue any regulations 
    as are necessary to implement the requirements of section 503(c) of 
    title 31, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1).
    (b) Program Management Improvement Officers and Program Management 
Policy Council.--
        (1) Amendment.--Chapter 11 of title 31, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 1126. Program Management Improvement Officers and Program 
    Management Policy Council
    ``(a) Program Management Improvement Officers.--
        ``(1) Designation.--The head of each agency described in 
    section 901(b) shall designate a senior executive of the agency as 
    the Program Management Improvement Officer of the agency.
        ``(2) Functions.--The Program Management Improvement Officer of 
    an agency designated under paragraph (1) shall--
            ``(A) implement program management policies established by 
        the agency under section 503(c); and
            ``(B) develop a strategy for enhancing the role of program 
        managers within the agency that includes the following:
                ``(i) Enhanced training and educational opportunities 
            for program managers that shall include--

                    ``(I) training in the relevant competencies 
                encompassed with program and project manager within the 
                private sector for program managers; and
                    ``(II) training that emphasizes cost containment 
                for large projects and programs.

                ``(ii) Mentoring of current and future program managers 
            by experienced senior executives and program managers 
            within the agency.
                ``(iii) Improved career paths and career opportunities 
            for program managers.
                ``(iv) A plan to encourage the recruitment and 
            retention of highly qualified individuals to serve as 
            program managers.
                ``(v) Improved means of collecting and disseminating 
            best practices and lessons learned to enhance program 
            management across the agency.
                ``(vi) Common templates and tools to support improved 
            data gathering and analysis for program management and 
            oversight purposes.
        ``(3) Application to department of defense.--This subsection 
    shall not apply to the Department of Defense to the extent that the 
    provisions of this subsection are substantially similar to or 
    duplicative of the provisions of chapter 87 of title 10. For 
    purposes of paragraph (1), the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics (or a designee of the Under 
    Secretary) shall be considered the Program Management Improvement 
    Officer.
    ``(b) Program Management Policy Council.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--There is established in the Office of 
    Management and Budget a council to be known as the `Program 
    Management Policy Council' (in this subsection referred to as the 
    `Council').
        ``(2) Purpose and functions.--The Council shall act as the 
    principal interagency forum for improving agency practices related 
    to program and project management. The Council shall--
            ``(A) advise and assist the Deputy Director for Management 
        of the Office of Management and Budget;
            ``(B) review programs identified as high risk by the 
        Government Accountability Office and make recommendations for 
        actions to be taken by the Deputy Director for Management of 
        the Office of Management and Budget or a designee;
            ``(C) discuss topics of importance to the workforce, 
        including--
                ``(i) career development and workforce development 
            needs;
                ``(ii) policy to support continuous improvement in 
            program and project management; and
                ``(iii) major challenges across agencies in managing 
            programs;
            ``(D) advise on the development and applicability of 
        standards governmentwide for program management transparency; 
        and
            ``(E) review the information published on the website of 
        the Office of Management and Budget pursuant to section 1122.
        ``(3) Membership.--
            ``(A) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of the 
        following members:
                ``(i) Five members from the Office of Management and 
            Budget as follows:

                    ``(I) The Deputy Director for Management.
                    ``(II) The Administrator of the Office of 
                Electronic Government.
                    ``(III) The Administrator of Federal Procurement 
                Policy.
                    ``(IV) The Controller of the Office of Federal 
                Financial Management.
                    ``(V) The Director of the Office of Performance and 
                Personnel Management.

                ``(ii) The Program Management Improvement Officer from 
            each agency described in section 901(b).
                ``(iii) Any other full-time or permanent part-time 
            officer or employee of the Federal Government or member of 
            the Armed Forces designated by the Chairperson.
            ``(B) Chairperson and vice chairperson.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Deputy Director for Management 
            of the Office of Management and Budget shall be the 
            Chairperson of the Council. A Vice Chairperson shall be 
            elected by the members and shall serve a term of not more 
            than 1 year.
                ``(ii) Duties.--The Chairperson shall preside at the 
            meetings of the Council, determine the agenda of the 
            Council, direct the work of the Council, and establish and 
            direct subgroups of the Council as appropriate.
        ``(4) Meetings.--The Council shall meet not less than twice per 
    fiscal year and may meet at the call of the Chairperson or a 
    majority of the members of the Council.
        ``(5) Support.--The head of each agency with a Project 
    Management Improvement Officer serving on the Council shall provide 
    administrative support to the Council, as appropriate, at the 
    request of the Chairperson.''.
        (2) Report required.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Management 
    and Budget, in consultation with each Program Management 
    Improvement Officer designated under section 1126(a)(1) of title 
    31, United States Code, shall submit to Congress a report 
    containing the strategy developed under section 1126(a)(2)(B) of 
    such title, as added by paragraph (1).
    (c) Program and Project Management Personnel Standards.--
        (1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``agency'' means 
    each agency described in section 901(b) of title 31, United States 
    Code, other than the Department of Defense.
        (2) Regulations required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date on which the standards, policies, and guidelines are issued 
    under section 503(c) of title 31, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (a)(1), the Director of the Office of Personnel 
    Management, in consultation with the Director of the Office of 
    Management and Budget, shall issue regulations that--
            (A) identify key skills and competencies needed for a 
        program and project manager in an agency;
            (B) establish a new job series, or update and improve an 
        existing job series, for program and project management within 
        an agency; and
            (C) establish a new career path for program and project 
        managers within an agency.
    (d) GAO Report on Effectiveness of Policies on Program and Project 
Management.--Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this 
Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall issue, in 
conjunction with the high risk list of the Government Accountability 
Office, a report examining the effectiveness of the following on 
improving Federal program and project management:
        (1) The standards, policies, and guidelines for program and 
    project management issued under section 503(c) of title 31, United 
    States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1).
        (2) The 5-year strategic plan established under section 
    503(c)(1)(H) of title 31, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (a)(1).
        (3) Program Management Improvement Officers designated under 
    section 1126(a)(1) of title 31, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (b)(1).
        (4) The Program Management Policy Council established under 
    section 1126(b)(1) of title 31, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (b)(1).
    SEC. 862. AUTHORITY TO WAIVE TENURE REQUIREMENT FOR PROGRAM 
      MANAGERS FOR PROGRAM DEFINITION AND PROGRAM EXECUTION PERIODS.
    (a) Program Definition Period.--Section 826(e) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92) is 
amended by striking ``The Secretary may waive'' and inserting ``The 
service acquisition executive, in the case of a major defense 
acquisition program of a military department, or the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, in the case of a 
Defense-wide or Defense Agency major defense acquisition program, may 
waive''.
    (b) Program Execution Period.--Section 827(e) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92) is 
amended by striking ``The immediate supervisor of a program manager for 
a major defense acquisition program may waive'' and inserting ``The 
service acquisition executive, in the case of a major defense 
acquisition program of a military department, or the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, in the case of a 
Defense-wide or Defense Agency major defense acquisition program, may 
waive''.
    SEC. 863. PURPOSES FOR WHICH THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
      WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND MAY BE USED; ADVISORY PANEL 
      AMENDMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (e)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and to develop 
        acquisition tools and methodologies, and undertake research and 
        development activities, leading to acquisition policies and 
        practices that will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of 
        defense acquisition efforts'' after ``workforce of the 
        Department''; and
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``other than for the 
        purpose of'' and all that follows through the period at the end 
        and inserting ``other than for the purposes of--
            ``(A) providing advanced training to Department of Defense 
        employees;
            ``(B) developing acquisition tools and methodologies and 
        performing research on acquisition policies and best practices 
        that will improve the efficiency and effectiveness of defense 
        acquisition efforts; and
            ``(C) supporting human capital and talent management of the 
        acquisition workforce, including benchmarking studies, 
        assessments, and requirements planning.''; and
        (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``Each report shall 
    include'' and all that follows through the period at the end of 
    paragraph (5).
    (b) Technical Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)(2)(C), by striking ``in each'' and 
    inserting ``in such'';
        (2) in subsection (f)--
            (A) by striking ``Not later than 120 days after the end of 
        each fiscal year'' and inserting ``Not later than February 1 
        each year''; and
            (B) by striking ``such fiscal year'' the first place it 
        appears and inserting ``the preceding fiscal year''; and
        (3) in subsection (g)(1)--
            (A) by striking ``of of'' and inserting ``of''; and
            (B) by striking ``, as defined in subsection (h),''.
    (c) Limitation on Availability of Funds for Certain Purposes.--Of 
the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017, not more than $35,000,000 may be 
obligated or expended for the purposes set forth in subparagraphs (B) 
and (C) of section 1705(e)(4) of title 10, United States Code, as added 
by subsection (a).
    (d) Amendments to Advisory Panel on Streamlining and Codifying 
Acquisition Regulations.--Section 809 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
889) is amended--
        (1) by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish an 
independent advisory panel on streamlining acquisition regulations. The 
panel shall be supported by the Defense Acquisition University and the 
National Defense University, including administrative support.''; and
        (2) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and analysis'' and 
        inserting ``, analysis, and logistics support''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Authorities.--The panel shall have the authorities 
    provided in section 3161 of title 5, United States Code.''.
    SEC. 864. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT 
      FUND DETERMINATION ADJUSTMENT.
    (a) Credit to Rapid Prototyping Fund.--Notwithstanding section 
1705(d)(2)(B) of title 10, United States Code, of the funds credited to 
the Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund in 
fiscal year 2017 pursuant to such section, $225,000,000 shall be 
transferred to the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 
804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note). Of the $225,000,000 so 
transferred, $75,000,000 shall be credited to each of the military 
department-specific funds established under section 804(d)(2) of such 
Act (as added by section 897 of this Act).
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--Section 804(d)(1) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by inserting a comma after ``may be 
    available'';
        (2) at the end of the first sentence, by inserting before the 
    period the following: ``and other purposes specified in law''; and
        (3) in the last sentence, by striking ``shall consist of'' and 
    all that follows through ``this Act.'' and inserting the following: 
    ``shall consist of--
                ``(i) amounts appropriated to the Fund;
                ``(ii) amounts credited to the Fund pursuant to section 
            828 of this Act; and
                ``(iii) any other amounts appropriated to, credited to, 
            or transferred to the Fund.''.
    SEC. 865. LIMITATIONS ON FUNDS USED FOR STAFF AUGMENTATION 
      CONTRACTS AT MANAGEMENT HEADQUARTERS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      AND THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    (a) Limitations.--
        (1) For fiscal years 2017 and 2018.--The total amount obligated 
    by the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2017 or 2018 for 
    contract services for staff augmentation contracts at management 
    headquarters of the Department and the military departments may not 
    exceed an amount equal to the aggregate amount expended by the 
    Department for contract services for staff augmentation contracts 
    at management headquarters of the Department and the military 
    departments in fiscal year 2016 adjusted for net transfers from 
    funding for overseas contingency operations (in this subsection 
    referred to as the ``fiscal year 2016 staff augmentation contracts 
    funding amount'').
        (2) For fiscal years 2018 through 2022.--The total amount 
    obligated by the Department for any fiscal year after fiscal year 
    2018 and before fiscal year 2023 for contract services for staff 
    augmentation contracts at management headquarters of the Department 
    and the military departments may not exceed an amount equal to 75 
    percent of the fiscal year 2016 staff augmentation contracts 
    funding amount.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``contract services'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 235 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``staff augmentation contracts'' means services 
    contracts for personnel who are physically present in a Government 
    work space on a full-time or permanent part-time basis, for the 
    purpose of advising on, providing support to, or assisting a 
    Government agency in the performance of the agency's missions, 
    including authorized personal services contracts (as that term is 
    defined in section 2330a(g)(5) of title 10, United States Code).
    SEC. 866. SENIOR MILITARY ACQUISITION ADVISORS IN THE DEFENSE 
      ACQUISITION CORPS.
    (a) Positions.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 87 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following 
    new section:
``Sec. 1725. Senior Military Acquisition Advisors
    ``(a) Position.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may establish in 
    the Defense Acquisition Corps a position to be known as `Senior 
    Military Acquisition Advisor'.
        ``(2) Appointment.--A Senior Military Acquisition Advisor shall 
    be appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent 
    of the Senate.
        ``(3) Scope of position.--An officer who is appointed as a 
    Senior Military Acquisition Advisor--
            ``(A) shall serve as an advisor to, and provide senior 
        level acquisition expertise to, the service acquisition 
        executive of that officer's military department in accordance 
        with this section; and
            ``(B) shall be assigned as an adjunct professor at the 
        Defense Acquisition University.
    ``(b) Continuation on Active Duty.--An officer who is appointed as 
a Senior Military Acquisition Advisor may continue on active duty while 
serving in such position without regard to any mandatory retirement 
date that would otherwise be applicable to that officer by reason of 
years of service or age. An officer who is continued on active duty 
pursuant to this section is not eligible for consideration for 
selection for promotion.
    ``(c) Retired Grade.--Upon retirement, an officer who is a Senior 
Military Acquisition Advisor may, in the discretion of the President, 
be retired in the grade of brigadier general or rear admiral (lower 
half) if--
        ``(1) the officer has served as a Senior Military Acquisition 
    Advisor for a period of not less than three years; and
        ``(2) the officer's service as a Senior Military Acquisition 
    Advisor has been distinguished.
    ``(d) Selection and Tenure.--
        ``(1) In general.--Selection of an officer for recommendation 
    for appointment as a Senior Military Acquisition Advisor shall be 
    made competitively, and shall be based upon demonstrated experience 
    and expertise in acquisition.
        ``(2) Officers eligible.--Officers shall be selected for 
    recommendation for appointment as Senior Military Acquisition 
    Advisors from among officers of the Defense Acquisition Corps who 
    are serving in the grade of colonel or, in the case of the Navy, 
    captain, and who have at least 12 years of acquisition experience. 
    An officer selected for recommendation for appointment as a Senior 
    Military Acquisition Advisor shall have at least 30 years of active 
    commissioned service at the time of appointment.
        ``(3) Term.--The appointment of an officer as a Senior Military 
    Acquisition Advisor shall be for a term of not longer than five 
    years.
    ``(e) Limitation.--
        ``(1) Limitation on number and distribution.--There may not be 
    more than 15 Senior Military Acquisition Advisors at any time, of 
    whom--
            ``(A) not more than five may be officers of the Army;
            ``(B) not more than five may be officers of the Navy and 
        Marine Corps; and
            ``(C) not more than five may be officers of the Air Force.
        ``(2) Number in each military department.--Subject to paragraph 
    (1), the number of Senior Military Acquisition Advisors for each 
    military department shall be as required and identified by the 
    service acquisition executive of such military department and 
    approved by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics.
    ``(f) Advice to Service Acquisition Executive.--An officer who is a 
Senior Military Acquisition Advisor shall have as the officer's primary 
duty providing strategic, technical, and programmatic advice to the 
service acquisition executive of the officer's military department on 
matters pertaining to the Defense Acquisition System, including matters 
pertaining to procurement, research and development, advanced 
technology, test and evaluation, production, program management, 
systems engineering, and lifecycle logistics.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter II of chapter 87 of such title is amended by adding 
    at the end the following new item:

``1725. Senior Military Acquisition Advisors.''.

    (b) Exclusion From Officer Grade-strength Limitations.--Section 
523(b) of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(9) Officers who are Senior Military Acquisition Advisors 
    under section 1725 of this title, but not to exceed 15.''.
    SEC. 867. AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE UNDER THE 
      ACQUISITION DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
    (a) Amendment.--Section 1762(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) The Secretary of Defense shall exercise the authorities 
    granted to the Office of Personnel Management under section 4703 of 
    title 5 for purposes of the demonstration project authorized under 
    this section.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Paragraph (4) of section 1762(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on 
the first day of the first month beginning 60 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.

          Subtitle F--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

    SEC. 871. MARKET RESEARCH FOR DETERMINATION OF PRICE REASONABLENESS 
      IN ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    Section 2377 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e), and in 
    that subsection by striking ``subsection (c)'' and inserting 
    ``subsections (c) and (d)''; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Market Research for Price Analysis.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall ensure that procurement officials in the Department of Defense 
conduct or obtain market research to support the determination of the 
reasonableness of price for commercial items contained in any bid or 
offer submitted in response to an agency solicitation. To the extent 
necessary to support such market research, the procurement official for 
the solicitation--
        ``(1) in the case of items acquired under section 2379 of this 
    title, shall use information submitted under subsection (d) of that 
    section; and
        ``(2) in the case of other items, may require the offeror to 
    submit relevant information.''.
    SEC. 872. VALUE ANALYSIS FOR THE DETERMINATION OF PRICE 
      REASONABLENESS.
    Subsection 2379(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
    ``(2) An offeror may submit information or analysis relating to the 
value of a commercial item to aid in the determination of the 
reasonableness of the price of such item. A contracting officer may 
consider such information or analysis in addition to the information 
submitted pursuant to paragraphs (1)(A) and (1)(B).''.
    SEC. 873. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO COMMERCIAL ITEM 
      DETERMINATIONS.
    Paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 2380 of title 10, United States 
Code, are amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) establish and maintain a centralized capability with 
    necessary expertise and resources to provide assistance to the 
    military departments and Defense Agencies in making commercial item 
    determinations, conducting market research, and performing analysis 
    of price reasonableness for the purposes of procurements by the 
    Department of Defense; and
        ``(2) provide to officials of the Department of Defense access 
    to previous Department of Defense commercial item determinations, 
    market research, and analysis used to determine the reasonableness 
    of price for the purposes of procurements by the Department of 
    Defense.''.
    SEC. 874. INAPPLICABILITY OF CERTAIN LAWS AND REGULATIONS TO THE 
      ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS AND COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE OFF-
      THE-SHELF ITEMS.
    (a) Amendment to Title 10, United States Code.--Section 2375 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2375. Relationship of commercial item provisions to other 
    provisions of law
    ``(a) Applicability of Government-wide Statutes.--(1) No contract 
for the procurement of a commercial item entered into by the head of an 
agency shall be subject to any law properly listed in the Federal 
Acquisition Regulation pursuant to section 1906(b) of title 41.
    ``(2) No subcontract under a contract for the procurement of a 
commercial item entered into by the head of an agency shall be subject 
to any law properly listed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation 
pursuant to section 1906(c) of title 41.
    ``(3) No contract for the procurement of a commercially available 
off-the-shelf item entered into by the head of an agency shall be 
subject to any law properly listed in the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation pursuant to section 1907 of title 41.
    ``(b) Applicability of Defense-unique Statutes to Contracts for 
Commercial Items.--(1) The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement shall include a list of defense-unique provisions of law and 
of contract clause requirements based on government-wide acquisition 
regulations, policies, or executive orders not expressly authorized in 
law that are inapplicable to contracts for the procurement of 
commercial items. A provision of law or contract clause requirement 
properly included on the list pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply 
to purchases of commercial items by the Department of Defense. This 
section does not render a provision of law or contract clause 
requirement not included on the list inapplicable to contracts for the 
procurement of commercial items.
    ``(2) A provision of law or contract clause requirement described 
in subsection (e) that is enacted after January 1, 2015, shall be 
included on the list of inapplicable provisions of law and contract 
clause requirements required by paragraph (1) unless the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics makes a 
written determination that it would not be in the best interest of the 
Department of Defense to exempt contracts for the procurement of 
commercial items from the applicability of the provision or contract 
clause requirement.
    ``(c) Applicability of Defense-unique Statutes to Subcontracts for 
Commercial Items.--(1) The Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement shall include a list of provisions of law and of contract 
clause requirements based on government-wide acquisition regulations, 
policies, or executive orders not expressly authorized in law that are 
inapplicable to subcontracts under a Department of Defense contract or 
subcontract for the procurement of commercial items. A provision of law 
or contract clause requirement properly included on the list pursuant 
to paragraph (2) does not apply to those subcontracts. This section 
does not render a provision of law or contract clause requirement not 
included on the list inapplicable to subcontracts under a contract for 
the procurement of commercial items.
    ``(2) A provision of law or contract clause requirement described 
in subsection (e) shall be included on the list of inapplicable 
provisions of law and contract clause requirements required by 
paragraph (1) unless the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics makes a written determination that it would 
not be in the best interest of the Department of Defense to exempt 
subcontracts under a contract for the procurement of commercial items 
from the applicability of the provision or contract clause requirement.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `subcontract' includes a 
transfer of commercial items between divisions, subsidiaries, or 
affiliates of a contractor or subcontractor. The term does not include 
agreements entered into by a contractor for the supply of commodities 
that are intended for use in the performance of multiple contracts with 
the Department of Defense and other parties and are not identifiable to 
any particular contract.
    ``(4) This subsection does not authorize the waiver of the 
applicability of any provision of law or contract clause requirement 
with respect to any first-tier subcontract under a contract with a 
prime contractor reselling or distributing commercial items of another 
contractor without adding value.
    ``(d) Applicability of Defense-unique Statutes to Contracts for 
Commercially Available, Off-the-shelf Items.--(1) The Defense Federal 
Acquisition Regulation Supplement shall include a list of provisions of 
law and of contract clause requirements based on government-wide 
acquisition regulations, policies, or executive orders not expressly 
authorized in law that are inapplicable to contracts for the 
procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items. A provision 
of law or contract clause requirement properly included on the list 
pursuant to paragraph (2) does not apply to Department of Defense 
contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf 
items. This section does not render a provision of law or contract 
clause requirement not included on the list inapplicable to contracts 
for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items.
    ``(2) A provision of law or contract clause requirement described 
in subsection (e) shall be included on the list of inapplicable 
provisions of law and contract clause requirements required by 
paragraph (1) unless the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics makes a written determination that it would 
not be in the best interest of the Department of Defense to exempt 
contracts for the procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf 
items from the applicability of the provision or contract clause 
requirement.
    ``(e) Covered Provision of Law or Contract Clause Requirement.--A 
provision of law or contract clause requirement referred to in 
subsections (b)(2), (c)(2), and (d)(2) is a provision of law or 
contract clause requirement that the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics determines sets forth policies, 
procedures, requirements, or restrictions for the procurement of 
property or services by the Federal Government, except for a provision 
of law or contract clause requirement that--
        ``(1) provides for criminal or civil penalties;
        ``(2) requires that certain articles be bought from American 
    sources pursuant to section 2533a of this title, or requires that 
    strategic materials critical to national security be bought from 
    American sources pursuant to section 2533b of this title; or
        ``(3) specifically refers to this section and provides that, 
    notwithstanding this section, it shall be applicable to contracts 
    for the procurement of commercial items.''.
    (b) Changes to Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement.--
        (1) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
    shall ensure that--
            (A) the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement 
        does not require the inclusion of contract clauses in contracts 
        for the procurement of commercial items or contracts for the 
        procurement of commercially available off-the-shelf items, 
        unless such clauses are--
                (i) required to implement provisions of law or 
            executive orders applicable to such contracts; or
                (ii) determined to be consistent with standard 
            commercial practice; and
            (B) the flow-down of contract clauses to subcontracts under 
        contracts for the procurement of commercial items or 
        commercially available off-the-shelf items is prohibited unless 
        such flow-down is required to implement provisions of law or 
        executive orders applicable to such subcontracts.
        (2) Subcontracts.--In this subsection, the term ``subcontract'' 
    includes a transfer of commercial items between divisions, 
    subsidiaries, or affiliates of a contractor or subcontractor. The 
    term does not include agreements entered into by a contractor for 
    the supply of commodities that are intended for use in the 
    performance of multiple contracts with the Department of Defense 
    and other parties and are not identifiable to any particular 
    contract.
    SEC. 875. USE OF COMMERCIAL OR NON-GOVERNMENT STANDARDS IN LIEU OF 
      MILITARY SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
Department of Defense uses commercial or non-Government specifications 
and standards in lieu of military specifications and standards, 
including for procuring new systems, major modifications, upgrades to 
current systems, non-developmental and commercial items, and programs 
in all acquisition categories, unless no practical alternative exists 
to meet user needs. If it is not practicable to use a commercial or 
non-Government standard, a Government-unique specification may be used.
    (b) Limited Use of Military Specifications.--
        (1) In general.--Military specifications shall be used in 
    procurements only to define an exact design solution when there is 
    no acceptable commercial or non-Government standard or when the use 
    of a commercial or non-Government standard is not cost effective.
        (2) Waiver.--A waiver for the use of military specifications in 
    accordance with paragraph (1) shall be approved by either the 
    appropriate milestone decision authority, the appropriate service 
    acquisition executive, or the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
    (c) Revision to DFARS.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall revise the Defense Federal 
Acquisition Regulation Supplement to encourage contractors to propose 
commercial or non-Government standards and industry-wide practices that 
meet the intent of the military specifications and standards.
    (d) Development of Non-government Standards.--The Under Secretary 
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall form partnerships with 
appropriate industry associations to develop commercial or non-
Government standards for replacement of military specifications and 
standards where practicable.
    (e) Education, Training, and Guidance.--The Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall ensure that 
training, education, and guidance programs throughout the Department 
are revised to incorporate specifications and standards reform.
    (f) Licenses.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics shall negotiate licenses for standards to be 
used across the Department of Defense and shall maintain an inventory 
of such licenses that is accessible to other Department of Defense 
organizations.
    SEC. 876. PREFERENCE FOR COMMERCIAL SERVICES.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall revise the guidance issued pursuant to 
section 855 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2377 note) to provide that--
        (1) the head of an agency may not enter into a contract in 
    excess of $10,000,000 for facilities-related services, knowledge-
    based services (except engineering services), construction 
    services, medical services, or transportation services that are not 
    commercial services unless the service acquisition executive of the 
    military department concerned, the head of the Defense Agency 
    concerned, the commander of the combatant command concerned, or the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics (as applicable) determines in writing that no commercial 
    services are suitable to meet the agency's needs as provided in 
    section 2377(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code; and
        (2) the head of an agency may not enter into a contract in an 
    amount above the simplified acquisition threshold and below 
    $10,000,000 for facilities-related services, knowledge-based 
    services (except engineering services), construction services, 
    medical services, or transportation services that are not 
    commercial services unless the contracting officer determines in 
    writing that no commercial services are suitable to meet the 
    agency's needs as provided in section 2377(c)(2) of such title.
    SEC. 877. TREATMENT OF COMMINGLED ITEMS PURCHASED BY CONTRACTORS AS 
      COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 140 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2380B. Treatment of commingled items purchased by contractors as 
     commercial items
    ``Notwithstanding 2376(1) of this title, items valued at less than 
$10,000 that are purchased by a contractor for use in the performance 
of multiple contracts with the Department of Defense and other parties 
and are not identifiable to any particular contract shall be treated as 
a commercial item for purposed of this chapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for such chapter is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2380A the 
following new item:

``2380B. Treatment of items purchased prior to release of prime contract 
          requests for proposals as commercial items.''.
    SEC. 878. TREATMENT OF SERVICES PROVIDED BY NONTRADITIONAL 
      CONTRACTORS AS COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    (a) In General.--Section 2380A of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``Notwithstanding'' and inserting the 
    following:
    ``(a) Goods and Services Provided by Nontraditional Defense 
Contractors.--Notwithstanding''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Services Provided by Certain Nontraditional Contractors.--
Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, services provided by a 
business unit that is a nontraditional defense contractor (as that term 
is defined in section 2302(9) of this title) shall be treated as 
commercial items for purposes of this chapter, to the extent that such 
services use the same pool of employees as used for commercial 
customers and are priced using methodology similar to methodology used 
for commercial pricing.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--Section 2380A of title 10, United States 
    Code, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by striking 
    the section heading and inserting the following:
``Sec. 2380a. Treatment of certain items as commercial items''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 140 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 2380A and inserting the 
    following new item:

``2380a. Treatment of certain items as commercial items.''.
    SEC. 879. DEFENSE PILOT PROGRAM FOR AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE INNOVATIVE 
      COMMERCIAL ITEMS, TECHNOLOGIES, AND SERVICES USING GENERAL 
      SOLICITATION COMPETITIVE PROCEDURES.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretaries of the 
military departments may carry out a pilot program, to be known as the 
``defense commercial solutions opening pilot program'', under which the 
Secretary may acquire innovative commercial items, technologies, and 
services through a competitive selection of proposals resulting from a 
general solicitation and the peer review of such proposals.
    (b) Treatment as Competitive Procedures.--Use of general 
solicitation competitive procedures for the pilot program under 
subsection (a) shall be considered to be use of competitive procedures 
for purposes of chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code.
    (c) Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary may not enter into a contract or 
    agreement under the pilot program for an amount in excess of 
    $100,000,000 without a written determination from the Under 
    Secretary for Acquisition, Logistics, and Technology or the 
    relevant service acquisition executive of the efficacy of the 
    effort to meet mission needs of the Department of Defense or the 
    relevant military department.
        (2) Fixed-price requirement.--Contracts or agreements entered 
    into under the program shall be fixed-price, including fixed-price 
    incentive fee contracts.
        (3) Treatment as commercial items.--Notwithstanding section 
    2376(1) of title 10, United States Code, items, technologies, and 
    services acquired under the pilot program shall be treated as 
    commercial items.
    (d) Guidance.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue guidance for the 
implementation of the pilot program under this section within the 
Department of Defense. Such guidance shall be issued in consultation 
with the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and shall be 
posted for access by the public.
    (e) Congressional Notification Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 45 days after the award of a 
    contract for an amount exceeding $100,000,000 using the authority 
    in subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
    congressional defense committees of such award.
        (2) Elements.--Notice of an award under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Description of the innovative commercial item, 
        technology, or service acquired.
            (B) Description of the requirement, capability gap, or 
        potential technological advancement with respect to which the 
        innovative commercial item, technology, or service acquired 
        provides a solution or a potential new capability.
            (C) Amount of the contract awarded.
            (D) Identification of contractor awarded the contract.
    (f) Definition.--In this section, the term ``innovative'' means--
        (1) any technology, process, or method, including research and 
    development, that is new as of the date of submission of a 
    proposal; or
        (2) any application that is new as of the date of submission of 
    a proposal of a technology, process, or method existing as of such 
    date.
    (g) Sunset.--The authority to enter into contracts under the pilot 
program shall expire on September 30, 2022.
    SEC. 880. PILOT PROGRAMS FOR AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE INNOVATIVE 
      COMMERCIAL ITEMS USING GENERAL SOLICITATION COMPETITIVE 
      PROCEDURES.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The head of an agency may carry out a pilot 
    program, to be known as a ``commercial solutions opening pilot 
    program'', under which innovative commercial items may be acquired 
    through a competitive selection of proposals resulting from a 
    general solicitation and the peer review of such proposals.
        (2) Head of an agency.--In this section, the term ``head of an 
    agency'' means the following:
            (A) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
            (B) The Administrator of General Services.
        (3) Applicability of section.--This section applies to the 
    following agencies:
            (A) The Department of Homeland Security.
            (B) The General Services Administration.
    (b) Treatment as Competitive Procedures.--Use of general 
solicitation competitive procedures for the pilot program under 
subsection (a) shall be considered, in the case of the Department of 
Homeland Security and the General Services Administration, to be use of 
competitive procedures for purposes of division C of title 41, United 
States Code (as defined in section 152 of such title).
    (c) Limitation.--The head of an agency may not enter into a 
contract under the pilot program for an amount in excess of 
$10,000,000.
    (d) Guidance.--The head of an agency shall issue guidance for the 
implementation of the pilot program under this section within that 
agency. Such guidance shall be issued in consultation with the Office 
of Management and Budget and shall be posted for access by the public.
    (e) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than three years after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the head of an agency shall submit to 
    the congressional committees specified in paragraph (3) a report on 
    the activities the agency carried out under the pilot program.
        (2) Elements of report.--Each report under this subsection 
    shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the impact of the pilot program on 
        competition.
            (B) A comparison of acquisition timelines for--
                (i) procurements made using the pilot program; and
                (ii) procurements made using other competitive 
            procedures that do not use general solicitations.
            (C) A recommendation on whether the authority for the pilot 
        program should be made permanent.
        (3) Specified congressional committees.--The congressional 
    committees specified in this paragraph are the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
    Representatives.
    (f) Innovative Defined.--In this section, the term ``innovative'' 
means--
        (1) any new technology, process, or method, including research 
    and development; or
        (2) any new application of an existing technology, process, or 
    method.
    (g) Termination.--The authority to enter into a contract under a 
pilot program under this section terminates on September 30, 2022.

                  Subtitle G--Industrial Base Matters

    SEC. 881. GREATER INTEGRATION OF THE NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND 
      INDUSTRIAL BASE.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than January 1, 2018, the Secretary 
of Defense shall develop a plan to reduce the barriers to the seamless 
integration between the persons and organizations that comprise the 
national technology and industrial base (as defined in section 2500 of 
title 10, United States Code). The plan shall include at a minimum the 
following elements:
        (1) A description of the various components of the national 
    technology and industrial base, including government entities, 
    universities, nonprofit research entities, nontraditional and 
    commercial item contractors, and private contractors that conduct 
    commercial and military research, produce commercial items that 
    could be used by the Department of Defense, and produce items 
    designated and controlled under section 38 of the Arms Export 
    Control Act (also known as the ``United States Munitions List'').
        (2) Identification of the barriers to the seamless integration 
    of the transfer of knowledge, goods, and services among the persons 
    and organizations of the national technology and industrial base.
        (3) Identification of current authorities that could contribute 
    to further integration of the persons and organizations of the 
    national technology and industrial base, and a plan to maximize the 
    use of those authorities.
        (4) Identification of changes in export control rules, 
    procedures, and laws that would enhance the civil-military 
    integration policy objectives set forth in section 2501(b) of title 
    10, United States Code, for the national technology and industrial 
    base to increase the access of the Armed Forces to commercial 
    products, services, and research and create incentives necessary 
    for nontraditional and commercial item contractors, universities, 
    and nonprofit research entities to modify commercial products or 
    services to meet Department of Defense requirements.
        (5) Recommendations for increasing integration of the national 
    technology and industrial base that supplies defense articles to 
    the Armed Forces and enhancing allied interoperability of forces 
    through changes to the text or the implementation of--
            (A) section 126.5 of title 22, Code of Federal Regulations 
        (relating to exemptions that are applicable to Canada under the 
        International Traffic in Arms Regulations);
            (B) the Treaty Between the Government of the United States 
        of America and the Government of Australia Concerning Defense 
        Trade Cooperation, done at Sydney on September 5, 2007;
            (C) the Treaty Between the Government of the United States 
        of America and the Government of the United Kingdom of Great 
        Britain and Northern Ireland Concerning Defense Trade 
        Cooperation, done at Washington and London on June 21 and 26, 
        2007; and
            (D) any other agreements among the countries comprising the 
        national technology and industrial base.
    (b) Amendment to Definition of National Technology and Industrial 
Base.--Section 2500(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``, the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
Australia,'' after ``United States''.
    (c) Reporting Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall report 
on the progress of implementing the plan in subsection (a) in the 
report required under section 2504 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 882. INTEGRATION OF CIVIL AND MILITARY ROLES IN ATTAINING 
      NATIONAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL BASE OBJECTIVES.
    Section 2501(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``It is the policy of Congress that the United States attain'' 
and inserting ``The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the United 
States attains''.
    SEC. 883. PILOT PROGRAM FOR DISTRIBUTION SUPPORT AND SERVICES FOR 
      WEAPON SYSTEMS CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a six-year 
pilot program under which the Secretary may make available storage and 
distribution services support to a contractor in support of the 
performance by the contractor of a contract for the production, 
modification, maintenance, or repair of a weapon system that is entered 
into by the Department of Defense.
    (b) Support Contracts.--
        (1) In general.--Any storage and distribution services to be 
    provided under the pilot program under this section to a contractor 
    in support of the performance of a contract described in subsection 
    (a) shall be provided under a separate contract that is entered 
    into by the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency with that 
    contractor. The requirements of section 2208(h) of title 10, United 
    States Code, and the regulations prescribed pursuant to such 
    section shall apply to any such separate support contract between 
    the Director of the Defense Logistics Agency and the contractor.
        (2) Limitation.--Not more than five support contracts between 
    the Director and the contractor may be awarded under the pilot 
    program.
    (c) Scope of Support and Services.--The storage and distribution 
support services that may be provided under this section in support of 
the performance of a contract described in subsection (a) are storage 
and distribution of materiel and repair parts necessary for the 
performance of that contract.
    (d) Regulations.--Before exercising the authority under the pilot 
program under this section, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe in 
regulations such requirements, conditions, and restrictions as the 
Secretary determines appropriate to ensure that storage and 
distribution services are provided under the pilot program only when it 
is in the best interests of the United States to do so. The regulations 
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) A requirement for the solicitation of offers for a contract 
    described in subsection (a), for which storage and distribution 
    services are to be made available under the pilot program, 
    including--
            (A) a statement that the storage and distribution services 
        are to be made available under the authority of the pilot 
        program under this section to any contractor awarded the 
        contract, but only on a basis that does not require acceptance 
        of the support and services; and
            (B) a description of the range of the storage and 
        distribution services that are to be made available to the 
        contractor.
        (2) A requirement for the rates charged a contractor for 
    storage and distribution services provided to a contractor under 
    the pilot program to reflect the full cost to the United States of 
    the resources used in providing the support and services, including 
    the costs of resources used, but not paid for, by the Department of 
    Defense.
        (3) With respect to a contract described in subsection (a) that 
    is being performed for a department or agency outside the 
    Department of Defense, a prohibition, in accordance with applicable 
    contracting procedures, on the imposition of any charge on that 
    department or agency for any effort of Department of Defense 
    personnel or the contractor to correct deficiencies in the 
    performance of such contract.
        (4) A prohibition on the imposition of any charge on a 
    contractor for any effort of the contractor to correct a deficiency 
    in the performance of storage and distribution services provided to 
    the contractor under this section.
        (5) A requirement that storage and distribution services 
    provided under the pilot program may not interfere with the mission 
    of the Defense Logistics Agency or of any military department 
    involved with the pilot program.
        (6) A requirement that any support contract for storage and 
    distribution services entered into under the pilot program shall 
    include a clause to indemnify the Government against any failure by 
    the contractor to perform the support contract, and to remain 
    responsible for performance of the primary contract.
    (e) Relationship to Treaty Obligations.--The Secretary shall ensure 
that the exercise of authority under the pilot program under this 
section does not conflict with any obligation of the United States 
under any treaty or other international agreement.
    (f) Reports.--
        (1) Secretary of defense.--Not later than the end of the fourth 
    year of operation of the pilot program, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
    House of Representatives a report describing--
            (A) the cost effectiveness for both the Government and 
        industry of the pilot program; and
            (B) how support contracts under the pilot program affected 
        meeting the requirements of primary contracts.
        (2) Comptroller general.--Not later than the end of the fifth 
    year of operation of the pilot program, the Comptroller General of 
    the United States shall review the report of the Secretary under 
    paragraph (1) for sufficiency and provide such recommendations in a 
    report to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House 
    of Representatives as the Comptroller General considers 
    appropriate.
    (g) Sunset.--The authority to enter into contracts under the pilot 
program shall expire six years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act. Any contracts entered into before such date shall continue in 
effect according to their terms.
    SEC. 884. NONTRADITIONAL AND SMALL CONTRACTOR INNOVATION 
      PROTOTYPING PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a pilot 
program for nontraditional defense contractors and small business 
concerns to design, develop, and demonstrate innovative prototype 
military platforms of significant scope for the purpose of 
demonstrating new capabilities that could provide alternatives to 
existing acquisition programs and assets. The Secretary shall establish 
the pilot program within the Departments of the Army, Navy, and Air 
Force, the Missile Defense Agency, and the United States Special 
Operations Command.
    (b) Funding.--There is authorized to be made available $250,000,000 
from the Rapid Prototyping Fund established under section 804(d) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) to carry out the pilot program.
    (c) Plan.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees, concurrent with the budget for 
    the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018, as submitted to 
    Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, 
    a plan to fund and carry out the pilot program in future years.
        (2) Elements.--The plan submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    consider maximizing use of--
            (A) broad agency announcements or other merit-based 
        selection procedures;
            (B) the Department of Defense Acquisition Challenge Program 
        authorized under section 2359b of title 10, United States Code;
            (C) the foreign comparative test program;
            (D) projects carried out under the Rapid Innovation Program 
        of the Department of Defense or pursuant to a Phase III 
        agreement (as defined in section 9(r)(2) of the Small Business 
        Act (15 U.S.C. 638(r)(2))); and
            (E) streamlined procedures for acquisition provided under 
        section 804 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) and 
        procedures for alternative acquisition pathways established 
        under section 805 of such Act (10 U.S.C. 2302 note).
    (d) Programs To Be Included.--As part of the pilot program, the 
Secretary of Defense shall allocate up to $50,000,000 on a fixed price 
contractual basis for fiscal year 2017 or pursuant to the plan 
submitted under subsection (c) for demonstrations of the following 
capabilities:
        (1) Swarming of multiple unmanned air vehicles.
        (2) Unmanned, modular fixed-wing aircraft that can be rapidly 
    adapted to multiple missions and serve as a fifth generation 
    weapons augmentation platform.
        (3) Vertical takeoff and landing tiltrotor aircraft.
        (4) Integration of a directed energy weapon on an air, sea, or 
    ground platform.
        (5) Swarming of multiple unmanned underwater vehicles.
        (6) Commercial small synthetic aperture radar (SAR) satellites 
    with on-board machine learning for automated, real-time feature 
    extraction and predictive analytics.
        (7) Active protection system to defend against rocket-propelled 
    grenades and anti-tank missiles.
        (8) Defense against hypersonic weapons, including sensors.
        (9) Other systems as designated by the Secretary.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Nontraditional defense contractor.--The term 
    ``nontraditional defense contractor'' has the meaning given the 
    term in section 2302(9) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Small business concern.--The term ``small business 
    concern'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Small 
    Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
    (f) Sunset.--The authority under this section expires at the close 
of September 30, 2026.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

    SEC. 885. REPORT ON BID PROTESTS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
contract with an independent research entity that is a not-for-profit 
entity or a federally funded research and development center with 
appropriate expertise and analytical capability to carry out a 
comprehensive study on the prevalence and impact of bid protests on 
Department of Defense acquisitions, including protests filed with 
contracting agencies, the Government Accountability Office, and the 
Court of Federal Claims.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall cover 
Department of Defense contracts and include, at a minimum, the 
following elements:
        (1) For employees of the Department, including the contracting 
    officers, program executive officers, and program managers, the 
    extent and manner in which the bid protest system affects or is 
    perceived to affect--
            (A) the development of a procurement to avoid protests 
        rather than improve acquisition;
            (B) the quality or quantity of pre-proposal discussions, 
        discussions of proposals, or post-award debriefings;
            (C) the decision to use lowest price technically acceptable 
        procurement methods;
            (D) the decision to make multiple awards or encourage 
        teaming;
            (E) the ability to meet an operational or mission need or 
        address important requirements;
            (F) the decision to use sole source award methods; and
            (G) the decision to exercise options on existing contracts.
        (2) With respect to a company bidding on contracts or task or 
    delivery orders, the extent and manner in which the bid protest 
    system affects or is perceived to affect--
            (A) the decision to offer a bid or proposal on single award 
        or multiple award contracts when the company is the incumbent 
        contractor;
            (B) the decision to offer a bid or proposal on single award 
        or multiple award contracts when the company is not the 
        incumbent contractor;
            (C) the ability to engage in pre-proposal discussions, 
        discussions of proposals, or post -award debriefings;
            (D) the decision to participate in a team or joint venture; 
        and
            (E) the decision to file a protest with the agency 
        concerned, the Government Accountability Office, or the Court 
        of Federal Claims.
        (3) A description of trends in the number of bid protests filed 
    with agencies, the Government Accountability Office, and Federal 
    courts, the effectiveness of each forum for contracts and task or 
    delivery orders, and the rate of such bid protests compared to 
    contract obligations and the number of contracts.
        (4) An analysis of bid protests filed by incumbent contractors, 
    including--
            (A) the rate at which such protesters are awarded bridge 
        contracts or contract extensions over the period that the 
        protest remains unresolved; and
            (B) an assessment of the cost and schedule impact of 
        successful and unsuccessful bid protests filed by incumbent 
        contractors on contracts for services with a value in excess of 
        $100,000,000.
        (5) A comparison of the number of protests, the values of 
    contested orders or contracts, and the outcome of protests for--
            (A) awards of contracts compared to awards of task or 
        delivery orders;
            (B) contracts or orders primarily for products, compared to 
        contracts or orders primarily for services;
            (C) protests filed pre-award to challenge the solicitation 
        compared to those filed post-award;
            (D) contracts or awards with single protestors compared to 
        multiple protestors; and
            (E) contracts with single awards compared to multiple award 
        contracts.
        (6) An analysis of the number and disposition of protests filed 
    with the contracting agency.
        (7) A description of trends in the number of bid protests filed 
    as a percentage of contracts and as a percentage of task or 
    delivery orders awarded during the same period of time, overall and 
    set forth separately by the value of the contract or order, as 
    follows:
            (A) Contracts valued in excess of $3,000,000,000.
            (B) Contracts valued between $500,000,000 and 
        $3,000,000,000.
            (C) Contracts valued between $50,000,000 and $500,000,000.
            (D) Contracts valued between $10,000,000 and $50,000,000.
            (E) Contracts valued under $10,000,000.
        (8) An assessment of the cost and schedule impact of successful 
    and unsuccessful bid protests filed on contracts valued in excess 
    of $3,000,000,000.
        (9) An analysis of how often protestors are awarded the 
    contract that was the subject of the bid protest.
        (10) A summary of the results of protests in which the 
    contracting agencies took unilateral corrective action, including--
            (A) at what point in the bid protest process the agency 
        agreed to take corrective action;
            (B) the average time for remedial action to be completed; 
        and
            (C) a determination regarding--
                (i) whether or to what extent the decision to take the 
            corrective action was a result of a determination by the 
            agency that there had been a probable violation of law or 
            regulation; or
                (ii) whether or to what extent such corrective action 
            was a result of some other factor.
        (11) A description of the time it takes agencies to implement 
    corrective actions after a ruling or decision, and the percentage 
    of those corrective actions that are subsequently protested, 
    including the outcome of any subsequent protest.
        (12) An analysis of those contracts with respect to which a 
    company files a protest (referred to as the ``initial protest'') 
    and later files another protest (referred to as the ``subsequent 
    protest''), analyzed by the forum of the initial protest and the 
    subsequent protest, including any difference in the outcome, 
    between the forums.
        (13) An analysis of the effect of the quantity and quality of 
    debriefings on the frequency of bid protests.
        (14) An analysis of the time spent at each phase of the 
    procurement process attempting to prevent a protest, addressing a 
    protest, or taking corrective action in response to a protest, 
    including the efficacy of any actions attempted to prevent the 
    occurrence of a protest.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the Secretary, or his 
designee, shall brief the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and House of Representatives on interim findings of the independent 
entity.
    (d) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the independent entity that conducts the study 
under subsection (a) shall provide to the Secretary of Defense and the 
congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study, 
along with any related recommendations.
    SEC. 886. REVIEW AND REPORT ON INDEFINITE DELIVERY CONTRACTS.
    (a) Report.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
deliver, not later than March 31, 2018, a report to Congress on the use 
by the Department of Defense of indefinite delivery contracts entered 
into during fiscal years 2015, 2016, and 2017.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall address, at a 
minimum, the following:
        (1) A review of Department of Defense policies for entering 
    into and using indefinite delivery contracts, including 
    requirements for competition, as well as the guidance, if any, on 
    the appropriate number of vendors that should receive multiple 
    award indefinite delivery contracts.
        (2) The number and value of all indefinite delivery contracts 
    entered into by the Department of Defense, including the number and 
    value of such contracts entered into with a single vendor.
        (3) An assessment of the number and value of indefinite 
    delivery contracts entered into by the Department of Defense that 
    included competition between multiple vendors.
        (4) Selected case studies of indefinite delivery contracts, 
    including an assessment of whether any such contracts may have 
    limited future opportunities for competition for the services or 
    items required.
        (5) Recommendations for potential changes to current law or 
    Department of Defense acquisition regulations or guidance to 
    promote competition with respect to indefinite delivery contracts.
    SEC. 887. REVIEW AND REPORT ON CONTRACTUAL FLOW-DOWN PROVISIONS.
    (a) Review Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
review of contractual flow-down provisions related to major defense 
acquisition programs on contractors and suppliers, including small 
businesses, contractors for commercial items, nontraditional defense 
contractors, universities, and not-for-profit research institutions. 
The review shall--
        (1) identify the flow-down provisions that exist in the Federal 
    Acquisition Regulation and the Defense Federal Acquisition 
    Regulation Supplement;
        (2) identify the flow-down provisions that are critical for 
    national security;
        (3) examine the extent to which clauses in contracts with the 
    Department of Defense are being applied inappropriately in 
    subcontracts under the contracts;
        (4) assess the applicability of flow-down provisions for the 
    purchase of commodity items that are acquired in bulk for multiple 
    acquisition programs;
        (5) determine the unnecessary costs or burdens, if any, of 
    flow-down provisions on the supply chain;
        (6) determine the effect, if any, of flow-down provisions on 
    the participation rate of small businesses, contractors for 
    commercial items, nontraditional defense contractors, universities, 
    and not-for-profit research organizations in defense acquisition 
    efforts; and
        (7) determine the effect, if any, of flow-down provisions on 
    Department of Defense access to advanced research and technology 
    capabilities available in the private sector.
    (b) Contract.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
contract with an independent entity with appropriate expertise to 
conduct the review required by subsection (a).
    (c) Report.--Not later than August 1, 2017, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings 
of the independent entity, along with a description of any actions that 
the Secretary proposes to address the findings of the independent 
entity.
    SEC. 888. REQUIREMENT AND REVIEW RELATING TO USE OF BRAND NAMES OR 
      BRAND-NAME OR EQUIVALENT DESCRIPTIONS IN SOLICITATIONS.
    (a) Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
competition in Department of Defense contracts is not limited through 
the use of specifying brand names or brand-name or equivalent 
descriptions, or proprietary specifications or standards, in 
solicitations unless a justification for such specification is provided 
and approved in accordance with section 2304(f) of title 10, United 
States Code.
    (b) Review of Anti-competitive Specifications in Information 
Technology Acquisitions.--
        (1) Review required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall conduct a review of 
    the policy, guidance, regulations, and training related to 
    specifications included in information technology acquisitions to 
    ensure current policies eliminate the unjustified use of 
    potentially anti-competitive specifications. In conducting the 
    review, the Under Secretary shall examine the use of brand names or 
    proprietary specifications or standards in solicitations for 
    procurements of goods and services, as well as the current 
    acquisition training curriculum related to those areas.
        (2) Briefing required.--Not later than 270 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall provide a 
    briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
    House of Representatives on the results of the review required by 
    paragraph (1).
        (3) Additional guidance.--Not later than one year after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall revise 
    policies, guidance, and training to incorporate such 
    recommendations as the Under Secretary considers appropriate from 
    the review required by paragraph (1).
    SEC. 889. INCLUSION OF INFORMATION ON COMMON GROUNDS FOR SUSTAINING 
      BID PROTESTS IN ANNUAL GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REPORTS 
      TO CONGRESS.
    The Comptroller General of the United States shall include in the 
annual report to Congress on the Government Accountability Office each 
year a list of the most common grounds for sustaining protests relating 
to bids for contracts during such year.
    SEC. 890. STUDY AND REPORT ON CONTRACTS AWARDED TO MINORITY-OWNED 
      AND WOMEN-OWNED BUSINESSES.
    (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
carry out a study on the number and types of contracts for the 
procurement of goods or services for the Department of Defense awarded 
to minority-owned and women-owned businesses during fiscal years 2010 
through 2015. In conducting the study, the Comptroller General shall 
identify minority-owned businesses according to the categories 
identified in the Federal Procurement Data System (described in section 
1122(a)(4)(A) of title 41, United States Code).
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the results of the study under 
subsection (a).
    SEC. 891. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE REIMBURSABLE AUDITING SERVICES TO 
      CERTAIN NON-DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    Section 893(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2313 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``except as provided in 
    paragraph (2),'' after ``this Act,''; and
        (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) Exception for national nuclear security administration.--
    Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Defense Contract Audit Agency 
    may provide audit support on a reimbursable basis for the National 
    Nuclear Security Administration.''.
    SEC. 892. SELECTION OF SERVICE PROVIDERS FOR AUDITING SERVICES AND 
      AUDIT READINESS SERVICES.
    The Department of Defense shall select service providers for 
auditing services and audit readiness services based on the best value 
to the Department, as determined by the resource sponsor for an 
auditing contract, rather than based on the lowest price technically 
acceptable service provider.
    SEC. 893. AMENDMENTS TO CONTRACTOR BUSINESS SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Business System Requirements.--Section 893 of the Ike Skelton 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended in subsection (b)(1), by 
striking ``system requirements'' and inserting ``clear and specific 
business system requirements that are identified and made publicly 
available''.
    (b) Third-party Independent Auditor Reviews.--Section 893 of such 
Act is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), (f), and (g) as 
    subsections (d), (e), (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Review by Third-party Independent Auditors.--The review 
process for contractor business systems pursuant to subsection (b)(2) 
shall--
        ``(1) if a registered public accounting firm attests to the 
    internal control assessment of a contractor, pursuant to section 
    404(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (15 U.S.C. 7262(b)), allow 
    the contractor, subject to paragraph (3), to submit certified 
    documentation from such registered public accounting firm that the 
    contractor business systems of the contractor meet the business 
    system requirements referred to in subsection (b)(1) and to thereby 
    eliminate the need for further review of the contractor business 
    systems by the Secretary of Defense;
        ``(2) limit the review, subject to paragraph (3), of the 
    contractor business systems of a contractor that is not a covered 
    contractor to confirming that the contractor uses the same 
    contractor business system for its Government and commercial work 
    and that the outputs of the contractor business system based on 
    statistical sampling are reasonable; and
        ``(3) allow a milestone decision authority to require a review 
    of a contractor business system of a contractor that submits 
    documentation pursuant to paragraph (1) or that is not a covered 
    contractor after determining in writing that such a review is 
    necessary to appropriately manage contractual risk.''.
    (c) Amendment to Definition of Covered Contractor.--Section 893 of 
such Act is further amended in subsection (g), as so redesignated, by 
striking ``means a contractor'' and all that follows and inserting 
``means a contractor that has covered contracts with the United States 
Government accounting for greater than 1 percent of its total gross 
revenue, except that the term does not include any contractor that is 
exempt, under section 1502 of title 41, United States Code, or 
regulations implementing that section, from using full cost accounting 
standards established in that section.''.
    (d) Repeal of Obsolete Deadline.--Section 893 of such Act is 
further amended in subsection (a) by striking ``Not later than 270 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the'' and inserting 
``The''.
    SEC. 894. IMPROVED MANAGEMENT PRACTICES TO REDUCE COST AND IMPROVE 
      PERFORMANCE OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Beginning not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate 
units, subunits, or entities of the Department of Defense, other than 
Centers of Industrial and Technical Excellence designated pursuant to 
section 2474 of title 10, United States Code, that conduct work that is 
commercial in nature or is not inherently governmental to prioritize 
efforts to conduct business operations in a manner that uses modern, 
commercial management practices and principles to reduce the costs and 
improve the performance of such organizations.
    (b) Adoption of Modern Business Practices.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that each such unit, subunit, or entity of the Department 
described in subsection (a) is authorized to adopt and implement best 
commercial and business management practices to achieve the goals 
described in such subsection.
    (c) Waivers.--The Secretary shall authorize waivers of Department 
of Defense, military service, and Defense Agency regulations, as 
appropriate, to achieve the goals in subsection (a), including in the 
following areas:
        (1) Financial management.
        (2) Human resources.
        (3) Facility and plant management.
        (4) Acquisition and contracting.
        (5) Partnerships with the private sector.
        (6) Other business and management areas as identified by the 
    Secretary.
    (d) Goals.--The Secretary of Defense shall identify savings goals 
to be achieved through the implementation of the commercial and 
business management practices adopted under subsection (b), and 
establish a schedule for achieving the savings.
    (e) Budget Adjustment.--The Secretary shall establish policies to 
adjust organizational budget allocations, at the Secretary's 
discretion, for purposes of--
        (1) using savings derived from implementation of best 
    commercial and business management practices for high priority 
    military missions of the Department of Defense;
        (2) creating incentives for the most efficient and effective 
    development and adoption of new commercial and business management 
    practices by organizations; and
        (3) investing in the development of new commercial and business 
    management practices that will result in further savings to the 
    Department of Defense.
    (f) Budget Baselines.--Beginning not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, each such unit, subunit, or entity 
of the Department described in subsection (a) shall, in accordance with 
such guidance as the Secretary of Defense shall establish for purposes 
of this section--
        (1) establish an annual baseline cost estimate of its 
    operations; and
        (2) certify that costs estimated pursuant to paragraph (1) are 
    wholly accounted for and presented in a format that is comparable 
    to the format for the presentation of such costs for other elements 
    of the Department or consistent with best commercial practices.
    SEC. 895. EXEMPTION FROM REQUIREMENT FOR CAPITAL PLANNING AND 
      INVESTMENT CONTROL FOR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY EQUIPMENT INCLUDED 
      AS INTEGRAL PART OF A WEAPON OR WEAPON SYSTEM.
    (a) Waiver Authority.--Notwithstanding subsection (c)(2) of section 
11103 of title 40, United States Code, a national security system 
described in subsection (a)(1)(D) of such section shall not be subject 
to the requirements of paragraphs (2) through (5) of section 11312(b) 
of such title unless the milestone decision authority determines in 
writing that application of such requirements is appropriate and in the 
best interests of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Milestone Decision Authority Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``milestone decision authority'' has the meaning given the term in 
section 2366a(d)(7) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 896. MODIFICATIONS TO PILOT PROGRAM FOR STREAMLINING AWARDS 
      FOR INNOVATIVE TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS.
    Section 873 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2306a note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2), by inserting ``or Small Business 
    Technology Transfer Program'' after ``Small Business Innovation 
    Research Program'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by inserting ``subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of 
        section 2313(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, and'' 
        before ``subsection (b) of section 2313''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, and if such 
        performance audit is initiated within 18 months of the contract 
        completion'' before the period at the end;
        (3) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
    subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
        (4) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(c) Treatment as Competitive Procedures.--Use of a technical, 
merit-based selection procedure or the Small Business Innovation 
Research Program or Small Business Technology Transfer Program for the 
pilot program under this section shall be considered to be use of 
competitive procedures for purposes of chapter 137 of title 10, United 
States Code.
    ``(d) Discretion To Use Non-certified Accounting Systems.--In 
executing programs under this pilot program, the Secretary of Defense 
shall establish procedures under which a small business or 
nontraditional contractor may engage an independent certified public 
accountant for the review and certification of its accounting system 
for the purposes of any audits required by regulation, unless the head 
of the agency determines that this is not appropriate based on past 
performance of the specific small business or nontraditional defense 
contractor, or based on analysis of other information specific to the 
award.
    ``(e) Guidance and Training.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
that acquisition and auditing officials are provided guidance and 
training on the flexible use and tailoring of authorities under the 
pilot program to maximize efficiency and effectiveness.''.
    SEC. 897. RAPID PROTOTYPING FUNDS FOR THE MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    Section 804(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), as amended by 
section 864 of this Act, is further amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Fund'' and 
    inserting ``Funds'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``In general.--The 
    Secretary'' and inserting the following: ``Department of defense 
    rapid prototyping fund.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary'';
        (3) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as subparagraphs 
    (B) and (C), respectively, and moving such subparagraphs, as so 
    redesignated, two ems to the right;
        (4) in subparagraph (B), as redesignated by paragraph (3), by 
    striking ``this subsection'' and inserting ``this paragraph''; and
        (5) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(2) Rapid prototyping funds for the military departments.--
    The Secretary of each military department may establish a military 
    department-specific fund (and, in the case of the Secretary of the 
    Navy, including the Marine Corps) to provide funds, in addition to 
    other funds that may be available to the military department 
    concerned, for acquisition programs under the rapid fielding and 
    prototyping pathways established pursuant to this section. Each 
    military department-specific fund shall consist of amounts 
    appropriated or credited to the fund.''.
    SEC. 898. ESTABLISHMENT OF PANEL ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND 
      ABILITYONE CONTRACTING OVERSIGHT, ACCOUNTABILITY, AND INTEGRITY; 
      DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY TRAINING.
    (a) Establishment of Panel on Department of Defense and AbilityOne 
Contracting Oversight, Accountability, and Integrity.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    panel to be known as the ``Panel on Department of Defense and 
    AbilityOne Contracting Oversight, Accountability, and Integrity'' 
    (hereafter in this section referred to as the ``Panel''). The Panel 
    shall be supported by the Defense Acquisition University, 
    established under section 1746 of title 10, United States Code, and 
    the National Defense University, including administrative support.
        (2) Composition.--The Panel shall be composed of the following:
            (A) A representative of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, who shall be the 
        chairman of the Panel.
            (B) A representative from the AbilityOne Commission.
            (C) A representative of the service acquisition executive 
        of each military department and Defense Agency (as such terms 
        are defined, respectively, in section 101 of title 10, United 
        States Code).
            (D) A representative of the Under Secretary of Defense 
        (Comptroller).
            (E) A representative of the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Defense and the AbilityOne Commission.
            (F) A representative from each of the Army Audit Agency, 
        the Navy Audit Service, the Air Force Audit Agency, and the 
        Defense Contract Audit Agency.
            (G) The President of the Defense Acquisition University, or 
        a designated representative.
            (H) One or more subject matter experts on veterans 
        employment from a veterans service organization.
            (I) A representative of the Commission Directorate of 
        Veteran Employment of the AbilityOne Commission whose duties 
        include maximizing opportunities to employ significantly 
        disabled veterans in accordance with the regulations of the 
        AbilityOne Commission.
            (J) One or more representatives from the Department of 
        Justice who are subject matter experts on compliance with 
        disability rights laws applicable to contracts of the 
        Department of Defense and the AbilityOne Commission.
            (K) One or more representatives from the Department of 
        Justice who are subject matter experts on Department of Defense 
        contracts, Federal Prison Industries, and the requirements of 
        the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act.
            (L) Such other representatives as may be determined 
        appropriate by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics.
    (b) Meetings.--The Panel shall meet as determined necessary by the 
chairman of the Panel, but not less often than once every three months.
    (c) Duties.--The Panel shall--
        (1) review the status of and progress relating to the 
    implementation of the recommendations of report number DODIG-2016-
    097 of the Inspector General of the Department of Defense titled 
    ``DoD Generally Provided Effective Oversight of AbilityOne 
    Contracts'', published on June 17, 2016;
        (2) recommend actions the Department of Defense and the 
    AbilityOne Commission may take to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse 
    with respect to contracts of the Department of Defense and the 
    AbilityOne Commission;
        (3) recommend actions the Department of Defense and the 
    AbilityOne Commission may take to ensure opportunities for the 
    employment of significantly disabled veterans and the blind and 
    other severely disabled individuals;
        (4) recommend changes to law, regulations, and policy that the 
    Panel determines necessary to eliminate vulnerability to waste, 
    fraud, and abuse with respect to the performance of contracts of 
    the Department of Defense;
        (5) recommend criteria for veterans with disabilities to be 
    eligible for employment opportunities through the programs of the 
    AbilityOne Commission that considers the definitions of disability 
    used by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the AbilityOne 
    Commission;
        (6) recommend ways the Department of Defense and the AbilityOne 
    Commission may explore opportunities for competition among 
    qualified nonprofit agencies or central nonprofit agencies and 
    ensure an equitable selection and allocation of work to qualified 
    nonprofit agencies;
        (7) recommend changes to business practices, information 
    systems, and training necessary to ensure that--
            (A) the AbilityOne Commission complies with regulatory 
        requirements related to the establishment and maintenence of 
        the procurement list established pursuant to section 8503 of 
        title 41, United States Code; and
            (B) the Department of Defense complies with the statutory 
        and regulatory requirements for use of such procurement list; 
        and
        (8) any other duties determined necessary by the Secretary of 
    Defense.
    (d) Consultation.--To carry out the duties described in subsection 
(c), the Panel may consult or contract with other executive agencies 
and with experts from qualified nonprofit agencies or central nonprofit 
agencies on--
        (1) compliance with disability rights laws applicable to 
    contracts of the Department of Defense and the AbilityOne 
    Commission;
        (2) employment of significantly disabled veterans; and
        (3) vocational rehabilitation.
    (e) Authority.--To carry out the duties described in subsection 
(c), the Panel may request documentation or other information needed 
from the AbilityOne Commission, central nonprofit agencies, and 
qualified nonprofit agencies.
    (f) Panel Recommendations and Milestone Dates.--
        (1) Milestone dates for implementing recommendations.--After 
    consulting with central nonprofit agencies and qualified nonprofit 
    agencies, the Panel shall suggest milestone dates for the 
    implementation of the recommendations made under subsection (c) and 
    shall notify the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
    Oversight and Government Reform of the House of Representatives, 
    the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate, qualified nonprofit agencies, and central nonprofit 
    agencies of such dates.
        (2) Notification of implementation of recommendations.--After 
    the establishment of milestone dates under paragraph (1), the Panel 
    may review the activities, including contracts, of the AbilityOne 
    Commission, the central nonprofit agencies, and the relevant 
    qualified nonprofit agencies to determine if the recommendations 
    made under subsection (c) are being substantially implemented in 
    good faith by the AbilityOne Commission or such agencies. If the 
    Panel determines that the AbilityOne Commission or any such agency 
    is not implementing the recommendations, the Panel shall notify the 
    Secretary of Defense, the congressional defense committees, the 
    Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
    Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
    Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
    (g) Remedies.--
        (1) In general.--Upon receiving notification under subsection 
    (f)(2) and subject to the limitation in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Defense may take one of the following actions:
            (A) With respect to a notification relating to the 
        AbilityOne Commission, the Secretary may suspend compliance 
        with the requirement to procure a product or service in section 
        8504 of title 41, United States Code, until the date on which 
        the Secretary notifies Congress, in writing, that the 
        AbilityOne Commission is substantially implementing the 
        recommendations made under subsection (c).
            (B) With respect to a notification relating to a qualified 
        nonprofit agency, the Secretary may terminate a contract with 
        such agency that is in existence on the date of receipt of such 
        notification, or elect to not enter into a contract with such 
        agency after such date, until the date on which the AbilityOne 
        Commission certifies to the Secretary that such agency is 
        substantially implementing the recommendations made under 
        subsection (c).
            (C) With respect to a notification relating to a central 
        nonprofit agency, the Secretary may include a term in a 
        contract entered into after the date of receipt of such 
        notification with a qualified nonprofit agency that is under 
        such central nonprofit agency that states that such qualified 
        nonprofit agency shall not pay a fee to such central nonprofit 
        agency until the date on which the AbilityOne Commission 
        certifies to the Secretary that such central nonprofit agency 
        is substantially implementing the recommendations made under 
        subsection (c).
        (2) Limitation.--If the Secretary of Defense takes any of the 
    actions described in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall coordinate 
    with the AbilityOne Commission or the relevant central nonprofit 
    agency, as appropriate, to fully implement the recommendations made 
    under subsection (c). On the date on which such recommendations are 
    fully implemented, the Secretary shall notify Congress, in writing, 
    and the Secretary's authority under paragraph (1) shall terminate.
    (h) Progress Reports.--
        (1) Consultation on recommendations.--Before submitting the 
    progress report required under paragraph (2), the Panel shall 
    consult with the AbilityOne Commission on draft recommendations 
    made pursuant to subsection (c). The Panel shall include any 
    recommendations of the AbilityOne Commission in the progress report 
    submitted under paragraph (2).
        (2) Progress report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Panel shall submit to the Secretary 
    of Defense, the Chairman of the AbilityOne Commission, the 
    congressional defense committees, the Committee on Oversight and 
    Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the 
    Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate a progress report on the activities of the Panel.
    (i) Annual Report.--
        (1) Consultation on report.--Before submitting the annual 
    report required under paragraph (2), the Panel shall consult with 
    the AbilityOne Commission on the contents of the report. The Panel 
    shall include any recommendations of the AbilityOne Commission in 
    the report submitted under paragraph (2).
        (2) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2017, and annually 
    thereafter for the next three years, the Panel shall submit to the 
    Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the AbilityOne Commission, 
    the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Oversight 
    and Government Reform of the House of Representatives, and the 
    Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate a report that includes--
            (A) a summary of findings and recommendations for the year 
        covered by the report;
            (B) a summary of the progress of the relevant qualified 
        nonprofit agencies or central nonprofit agencies in 
        implementing recommendations of the previous year's report, if 
        applicable;
            (C) an examination of the current structure of the 
        AbilityOne Commission to eliminate waste, fraud, and abuse and 
        to ensure contracting integrity and accountability for any 
        violations of law or regulations;
            (D) recommendations for any changes to the acquisition and 
        contracting practices of the Department of Defense and the 
        AbilityOne Commission to improve the delivery of goods and 
        services to the Department of Defense; and
            (E) recommendations for administrative safeguards to ensure 
        the Department of Defense and the AbilityOne Commission are in 
        compliance with the requirements of the Javits-Wagner-O'Day 
        Act, Federal civil rights law, and regulations and policy 
        related to the performance of contracts of the Department of 
        Defense with qualified nonprofit agencies and the contracts of 
        the AbilityOne Commission with central nonprofit agencies.
    (j) Sunset.--The Panel shall terminate on the date of submission of 
the last annual report required under subsection (i).
    (k) Inapplicability of FACA.--The requirements of the Federal 
Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Panel 
established pursuant to subsection (a).
    (l) Defense Acquisition University Training.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    training program at the Defense Acquisition University established 
    under section 1746 of title 10, United States Code. Such training 
    shall include--
            (A) information about--
                (i) the mission of the AbilityOne Commission;
                (ii) the employment of significantly disabled veterans 
            through contracts from the procurement list maintained by 
            the AbilityOne Commission;
                (iii) reasonable accommodations and accessibility 
            requirements for the blind and other severely disabled 
            individuals; and
                (iv) Executive orders and other subjects related to the 
            blind and other severely disabled individuals, as 
            determined by the Secretary of Defense; and
            (B) procurement, acquisition, program management, and other 
        training specific to procuring goods and services for the 
        Department of Defense pursuant to the Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act.
        (2) Acquisition workforce assignment.--Members of the 
    acquisition workforce (as defined in section 101 of title 10, 
    United States Code) who have participated in the training described 
    in paragraph (1) are eligible for a detail to the AbilityOne 
    Commission.
        (3) Abilityone commission assignment.--Career employees of the 
    AbilityOne Commission may participate in the training program 
    described in paragraph (1) on a non-reimbursable basis for up to 
    three years and on a non-reimbursable or reimbursable basis 
    thereafter.
        (4) Funding.--Amounts from the Department of Defense 
    Acquisition Workforce Development Fund established under section 
    1705 of title 10, United States Code, are authorized for use for 
    the detail of members of the acquisition workforce to the 
    AbilityOne Commission.
    (m) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``AbilityOne Commission'' means the Committee for 
    Purchase From People Who Are Blind or Severely Disabled established 
    under section 8502 of title 41, United States Code.
        (2) The terms ``blind'', ``qualified nonprofit agency for the 
    blind'', ``qualified nonprofit agency for other severely 
    disabled'', and ``severely disabled individual'' have the meanings 
    given such terms under section 8501 of such title.
        (3) The term ``central nonprofit agency'' means a central 
    nonprofit agency designated under section 8503(c) of such title.
        (4) The term ``executive agency'' has the meaning given such 
    term in section 133 of such title.
        (5) The term ``Javits-Wagner-O'Day Act'' means chapter 85 of 
    such title.
        (6) The term ``qualified nonprofit agency'' means--
            (A) a qualified nonprofit agency for the blind; or
            (B) a qualified nonprofit agency for other severely 
        disabled.
        (7) The term ``significantly disabled veteran'' means a veteran 
    (as defined in section 101 of title 38, United States Code) who is 
    a severely disabled individual.
    SEC. 899. COAST GUARD MAJOR ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Functions of Chief Acquisition Officer.--Section 56(c) of title 
14, United States Code, is amended by striking ``and'' after the 
semicolon at the end of paragraph (8), striking the period at the end 
of paragraph (9) and inserting ``; and'', and adding at the end the 
following:
        ``(10)(A) keeping the Commandant informed of the progress of 
    major acquisition programs (as that term is defined in section 
    581);
        ``(B) informing the Commandant on a continuing basis of any 
    developments on such programs that may require new or revisited 
    trade-offs among cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and 
    performance, including--
            ``(i) significant cost growth or schedule slippage; and
            ``(ii) requirements creep (as that term is defined in 
        section 2547(c)(1) of title 10); and
        ``(C) ensuring that the views of the Commandant regarding such 
    programs on cost, schedule, technical feasibility, and performance 
    trade-offs are strongly considered by program managers and program 
    executive officers in all phases of the acquisition process.''.
    (b) Customer Service Mission of Directorate.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 15 of title 14, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in section 561(b)--
                (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and 
            inserting a semicolon;
                (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and 
            inserting ``; and''; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) to meet the needs of customers of major acquisition 
    programs in the most cost-effective manner practicable.'';
            (B) in section 562, by repealing subsection (b) and 
        redesignating subsections (c), (d), (f), and (g) as subsections 
        (b), (c), (d), and (e), respectively;
            (C) in section 563, by striking ``Not later than 180 days 
        after the date of enactment of the Coast Guard Authorization 
        Act of 2010, the Commandant shall commence implementation of'' 
        and inserting ``The Commandant shall maintain'';
            (D) by adding at the end of section 564 the following:
    ``(c) Acquisition of Unmanned Aerial Systems.--
        ``(1) In general.--During any fiscal year for which funds are 
    appropriated for the design or construction of the Offshore Patrol 
    Cutter, the Commandant--
            ``(A) may not award a contract for design of an unmanned 
        aerial system for use by the Coast Guard; and
            ``(B) may acquire an unmanned aerial system only--
                ``(i) if such a system has been acquired by, or has 
            been used by, the Department of Defense or the Department 
            of Homeland Security, or a component thereof, before the 
            date on which the Commandant acquires the system; and
                ``(ii) through an agreement with such a department or 
            component, unless the unmanned aerial system can be 
            obtained at less cost through independent contract action.
        ``(2) Limitations on application.--
            ``(A) Small unmanned aerial systems.--The limitations in 
        paragraph (1)(B) do not apply to any small unmanned aerial 
        system that consists of--
                ``(i) an unmanned aircraft weighing less than 55 pounds 
            on takeoff, including all components and equipment on board 
            or otherwise attached to the aircraft; and
                ``(ii) associated elements (including communication 
            links and the components that control such aircraft) that 
            are required for the safe and efficient operation of such 
            aircraft.
            ``(B) Previously funded systems.--The limitations in 
        paragraph (1) do not apply to the design or acquisition of an 
        unmanned aerial system for which funds for research, 
        development, test, and evaluation have been received from the 
        Department of Defense or the Department of Homeland Security'';
            (E) in subchapter II, by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 578. Role of Vice Commandant in major acquisition programs
    ``The Vice Commandant--
        ``(1) shall represent the customer of a major acquisition 
    program with regard to trade-offs made among cost, schedule, 
    technical feasibility, and performance with respect to such 
    program; and
        ``(2) shall advise the Commandant in decisions regarding the 
    balancing of resources against priorities, and associated trade-
    offs referred to in paragraph (1), on behalf of the customer of a 
    major acquisition program.
``Sec. 579. Extension of major acquisition program contracts
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 564(a)(2) of this title 
and section 2304 of title 10, and subject to subsections (b) and (c) of 
this section, the Secretary may acquire additional units procured under 
a Coast Guard major acquisition program contract, by extension of such 
contract without competition, if the Director of the Cost Analysis 
Division of the Department of Homeland Security determines that the 
costs that would be saved through award of a new contract in accordance 
with such sections would not exceed the costs of such an award.
    ``(b) Limitation on Number of Additional Units.--The number of 
additional units acquired under a contract extension under this section 
may not exceed the number of additional units for which such 
determination is made.
    ``(c) Determination of Costs Upon Request.--The Director of the 
Cost Analysis Division of the Department of Homeland Security shall, at 
the request of the Secretary, determine for purposes of this section--
        ``(1) the costs that would be saved through award of a new 
    major acquisition program contract in accordance with section 
    564(a)(2) for the acquisition of a number of additional units 
    specified by the Secretary; and
        ``(2) the costs of such award, including the costs that would 
    be incurred due to acquisition schedule delays and asset design 
    changes associated with such award.
    ``(d) Number of Extensions.--A contract may be extended under this 
section more than once.''; and
            (F) in section 581--
                (i) by redesignating paragraphs (7) through (10) as 
            paragraphs (9) through (12), respectively, and by 
            redesignating paragraphs (3) through (6) as paragraphs (4) 
            through (7), respectively;
                (ii) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
        ``(3) Customer of a major acquisition program.--The term 
    `customer of a major acquisition program' means the operating field 
    unit of the Coast Guard that will field the system or systems 
    acquired under a major acquisition program.''; and
                (iii) by inserting after paragraph (7), as so 
            redesignated, the following:
        ``(8) Major acquisition program.--The term `major acquisition 
    program' means an ongoing acquisition undertaken by the Coast Guard 
    with a life-cycle cost estimate greater than or equal to 
    $300,000,000.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis at the beginning of such 
    chapter is amended by adding at the end of the items relating to 
    subchapter II the following:

``578. Role of Vice Commandant in major acquisition programs.
``579. Extension of major acquisition program contracts.''.

    (c) Review Required.--
        (1) Requirement.--The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall 
    conduct a review of--
            (A) the authorities provided to the Commandant in chapter 
        15 of title 14, United States Code, and other relevant statutes 
        and regulations related to Coast Guard acquisitions, including 
        developing recommendations to ensure that the Commandant plays 
        an appropriate role in the development of requirements, 
        acquisition processes, and the associated budget practices;
            (B) implementation of the strategy prepared in accordance 
        with section 562(b)(2) of title 14, United States Code, as in 
        effect before the enactment of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017; and
            (C) acquisition policies, directives, and regulations of 
        the Coast Guard to ensure such policies, directives, and 
        regulations establish a customer-oriented acquisition system.
        (2) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the Commandant shall 
    submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the 
    House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
    and Transportation of the Senate a report containing, at a minimum, 
    the following:
            (A) The recommendations developed by the Commandant under 
        paragraph (1) and other results of the review conducted under 
        such paragraph.
            (B) The actions the Commandant is taking, if any, within 
        the Commandant's existing authority to implement such 
        recommendations.
        (3) Modification of policies, directives, and regulations.--Not 
    later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
    the Commandant of the Coast Guard shall modify the acquisition 
    policies, directives, and regulations of the Coast Guard as 
    necessary to ensure the development and implementation of a 
    customer-oriented acquisition system, pursuant to the review under 
    paragraph (1)(C).
    (d) Analysis of Using Multiyear Contracting.--
        (1) In general.--No later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the department in which the 
    Coast Guard is operating shall submit to the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
    Senate an analysis of the use of multiyear contracting, including 
    procurement authority provided under section 2306b of title 10, 
    United States Code, and authority similar to that granted to the 
    Navy under section 121(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 1648) and 
    section 150 of the Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public Law 
    111-242; 124 Stat. 3519), to acquire any combination of at least 
    five--
            (A) Fast Response Cutters, beginning with hull 43; and
            (B) Offshore Patrol Cutters, beginning with hull 5.
        (2) Contents.--The analysis under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the costs and benefits of using multiyear contracting, the impact 
    of multiyear contracting on delivery timelines, and whether the 
    acquisitions examined would meet the tests for the use of multiyear 
    procurement authorities.
SEC. 899A. ENHANCED AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PRODUCED 
IN AFRICA IN SUPPORT OF CERTAIN ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c), in the case 
of a product or service to be acquired in support of covered activities 
in a covered African country for which the Secretary of Defense makes a 
determination described in subsection (b), the Secretary may conduct a 
procurement in which--
        (1) competition is limited to products or services from the 
    host nation;
        (2) a preference is provided for products or services from the 
    host nation; or
        (3) a preference is provided for products or services from a 
    covered African country, other than the host nation.
    (b) Determination.--
        (1) In general.--A determination described in this subsection 
    is a determination by the Secretary of any of the following:
            (A) That the product or service concerned is to be used 
        only in support of covered activities.
            (B) That it is in the national security interests of the 
        United States to limit competition or provide a preference as 
        described in subsection (a) because such limitation or 
        preference is necessary--
                (i) to reduce overall United States transportation 
            costs and risks in shipping products in support of 
            operations, exercises, theater security cooperation 
            activities, and other missions in the African region;
                (ii) to reduce delivery times in support of covered 
            activities; or
                (iii) to promote regional security and stability in 
            Africa.
            (C) That the product or service is of equivalent quality to 
        a product or service that would have otherwise been acquired 
        without such limitation or preference.
        (2) Requirement for effectiveness of any particular 
    determination.--A determination under paragraph (1) shall not be 
    effective for purposes of a limitation or preference under 
    subsection (a) unless the Secretary also determines that--
            (A) the limitation or preference will not adversely 
        affect--
                (i) United States military operations or stability 
            operations in the African region; or
                (ii) the United States industrial base; and
            (B) in the case of air transportation, an air carrier 
        holding a certificate under section 41102 of title 49, United 
        States Code, is not reasonably available to provide the air 
        transportation.
    (c) Inapplicability of Authority to Procurement of Items on 
Abilityone Procurement Catalog.--The authority under subsection (a) may 
not be used for the procurement of any good that is contained in the 
procurement list described in section 8503(a) of title 41, United 
States Code, if such good can be produced and delivered by a qualified 
non profit agency for the blind or a nonprofit agency for other 
severely disabled in a timely fashion to support mission requirements.
    (d) Report on Use of Authority.--Not later than December 31, 2017, 
the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on the use of the authority in subsection (a). The report shall 
include, but not be limited to, the following:
        (1) The number of determinations made by the Secretary pursuant 
    to subsection (b).
        (2) A list of the countries providing products or services as a 
    result of determinations made pursuant to subsection (b).
        (3) A description of the products and services acquired using 
    the authority.
        (4) The extent to which the use of the authority has met the 
    one or more of the objectives specified in clause (i), (ii), or 
    (iii) of subsection (b)(1)(B).
        (5) Such recommendations for improvements to the authority as 
    the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (6) Such other matters as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered activities.--The term ``covered activities'' means 
    Department of Defense activities in the African region or a 
    regional neighbor.
        (2) Covered african country.--The term ``covered African 
    country'' means a country in Africa that has signed a long-term 
    agreement with the United States related to the basing or 
    operational needs of the United States Armed Forces.
        (3) Host nation.--The term ``host nation'' means a nation that 
    allows the Armed Forces and supplies of the United States to be 
    located on, to operate in, or to be transported through its 
    territory.
        (4) Product or service of a covered african country.--The term 
    ``product or service of a covered African country'' means the 
    following:
            (A) A product from a covered African country that is wholly 
        grown, mined, manufactured, or produced in the covered African 
        country.
            (B) A service from a covered African country that is 
        performed by a person or entity that--
                (i) is properly licensed or registered by appropriate 
            authorities of the covered African country; and
                (ii) as determined by the Chief of Mission concerned--

                    (I) is operating primarily in the covered African 
                country; or
                    (II) is making a significant contribution to the 
                economy of the covered African country through payment 
                of taxes or use of products, materials, or labor that 
                are primarily grown, mined, manufactured, produced, or 
                sourced from the covered African country.

    (f) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1263 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3581) is repealed.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

Sec. 901. Organization of the Office of the Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 902. Responsibilities and reporting of the Chief Information 
          Officer of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 903. Maximum number of personnel in the Office of the Secretary of 
          Defense and other Department of Defense headquarters offices.
Sec. 904. Repeal of Financial Management Modernization Executive 
          Committee.

  Subtitle B--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                                Generally

Sec. 911. Organizational strategy for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 912. Policy, organization, and management goals and priorities of 
          the Secretary of Defense for the Department of Defense.
Sec. 913. Secretary of Defense delivery unit.
Sec. 914. Performance of civilian functions by military personnel.
Sec. 915. Repeal of requirements relating to efficiencies plan for the 
          civilian personnel workforce and service contractor workforce 
          of the Department of Defense.

     Subtitle C--Joint Chiefs of Staff and Combatant Command Matters

Sec. 921. Joint Chiefs of Staff and related combatant command matters.
Sec. 922. Organization of the Department of Defense for management of 
          special operations forces and special operations.
Sec. 923. Establishment of unified combatant command for cyber 
          operations.
Sec. 924. Assigned forces of the combatant commands.
Sec. 925. Modifications to the requirements process.
Sec. 926. Review of combatant command organization.

 Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

Sec. 931. Qualifications for appointment of the Secretaries of the 
          military departments.
Sec. 932. Enhanced personnel management authorities for the Chief of the 
          National Guard Bureau.
Sec. 933. Reorganization and redesignation of Office of Family Policy 
          and Office of Community Support for Military Families with 
          Special Needs.
Sec. 934. Redesignation of Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
          Acquisition as Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
          Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.

          Subtitle E--Strategies, Reports, and Related Matters

Sec. 941. National defense strategy.
Sec. 942. Commission on the National Defense Strategy for the United 
          States.
Sec. 943. Reform of the national military strategy.
Sec. 944. Form of annual national security strategy report.
Sec. 945. Modification to independent study of national security 
          strategy formulation process.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 951. Enhanced security programs for Department of Defense personnel 
          and innovation initiatives.
Sec. 952. Modification of authority of the Secretary of Defense relating 
          to protection of the Pentagon Reservation and other Department 
          of Defense facilities in the National Capital Region.
Sec. 953. Modifications to requirements for accounting for members of 
          the Armed Forces and Department of Defense civilian employees 
          listed as missing.
Sec. 954. Modifications to corrosion report.

   Subtitle A--Office of the Secretary of Defense and Related Matters

    SEC. 901. ORGANIZATION OF THE OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.--
        (1) In general.--Effective on February 1, 2018, chapter 4 of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking section 133 
    and inserting the following new section:
``Sec. 133a. Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering
    ``(a) Under Secretary of Defense.--There is an Under Secretary of 
Defense for Research and Engineering, appointed from civilian life by 
the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The 
Under Secretary shall be appointed from among persons who have an 
extensive technology, science, or engineering background and experience 
with managing complex or advanced technological programs. A person may 
not be appointed as Under Secretary within seven years after relief 
from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of an 
armed force.
    ``(b) Duties and Powers.--Subject to the authority, direction, and 
control of the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary shall perform 
such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary may prescribe, 
including--
        ``(1) serving as the chief technology officer of the Department 
    of Defense with the mission of advancing technology and innovation 
    for the armed forces (and the Department);
        ``(2) establishing policies on, and supervising, all defense 
    research and engineering, technology development, technology 
    transition, prototyping, experimentation, and developmental testing 
    activities and programs, including the allocation of resources for 
    defense research and engineering, and unifying defense research and 
    engineering efforts across the Department; and
        ``(3) serving as the principal advisor to the Secretary on all 
    research, engineering, and technology development activities and 
    programs in the Department.
    ``(c) Precedence in Department of Defense.--
        ``(1) Precedence in matters of responsibility.--With regard to 
    all matters for which the Under Secretary has responsibility by the 
    direction of the Secretary of Defense or by law, the Under 
    Secretary takes precedence in the Department of Defense after the 
    Secretary and the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
        ``(2) Precedence in other matters.--With regard to all matters 
    other than the matters for which the Under Secretary has 
    responsibility by the direction of the Secretary or by law, the 
    Under Secretary takes precedence in the Department of Defense after 
    the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, and the Secretaries of the 
    military departments.''.
        (2) Service of incumbent usd for atl in position.--The 
    individual serving as Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics under section 133 of title 10, United 
    States Code, as of February 1, 2018, may continue to serve as Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering commencing as of 
    that date, without further appointment under section 133a of such 
    title, as added by paragraph (1).
    (b) Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.--
Effective on February 1, 2018, chapter 4 of title 10, United States 
Code, is further amended by inserting after section 133a, as added by 
subsection (a), the following new section:
``Sec. 133b. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment
    ``(a) Under Secretary of Defense.--There is an Under Secretary of 
Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, appointed from civilian life 
by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate. The 
Under Secretary shall be appointed from among persons who have an 
extensive system development, engineering, production, or management 
background and experience with managing complex programs. A person may 
not be appointed as Under Secretary within seven years after relief 
from active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of an 
armed force.
    ``(b) Duties and Powers.--Subject to the authority, direction, and 
control of the Secretary of Defense, the Under Secretary shall perform 
such duties and exercise such powers as the Secretary may prescribe, 
including--
        ``(1) serving as the chief acquisition and sustainment officer 
    of the Department of Defense with the mission of delivering and 
    sustaining timely, cost-effective capabilities for the armed forces 
    (and the Department);
        ``(2) establishing policies on, and supervising, all elements 
    of the Department relating to acquisition (including system design, 
    development, and production, and procurement of goods and services) 
    and sustainment (including logistics, maintenance, and materiel 
    readiness);
        ``(3) establishing policies for access to, and maintenance of, 
    the defense industrial base and materials critical to national 
    security, and policies on contract administration;
        ``(4) serving as--
            ``(A) the principal advisor to the Secretary on acquisition 
        and sustainment in the Department;
            ``(B) the senior procurement executive for the Department 
        for the purposes of section 1702(c) of title 41; and
            ``(C) the Defense Acquisition Executive for purposes of 
        regulations and procedures of the Department providing for a 
        Defense Acquisition Executive;
        ``(5) overseeing the modernization of nuclear forces and the 
    development of capabilities to counter weapons of mass destruction, 
    and serving as the chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council and the 
    co-chairman of the Council on Oversight of the National Leadership 
    Command, Control, and Communications System;
        ``(6) the authority to direct the Secretaries of the military 
    departments and the heads of all other elements of the Department 
    with regard to matters for which the Under Secretary has 
    responsibility, except that the Under Secretary shall exercise 
    supervisory authority over service acquisition programs for which 
    the service acquisition executive is the milestone decision 
    authority; and
        ``(7) to the extent directed by the Secretary, exercising 
    overall supervision of all personnel (civilian and military) in the 
    Office of the Secretary of Defense with regard to matters for which 
    the Under Secretary has responsibility, unless otherwise provided 
    by law.
    ``(c) Precedence in Department of Defense.--
        ``(1) Precedence in matters of responsibility.--With regard to 
    all matters for which the Under Secretary has responsibility by the 
    direction of the Secretary of Defense or by law, the Under 
    Secretary takes precedence in the Department of Defense after the 
    Secretary, the Deputy Secretary of Defense, and the Under Secretary 
    of Defense for Research and Engineering.
        ``(2) Precedence in other matters.--With regard to all matters 
    other than the matters for which the Under Secretary has 
    responsibility by the direction of the Secretary or by law, the 
    Under Secretary takes precedence in the Department of Defense after 
    the Secretary, the Deputy Secretary, the Under Secretary of Defense 
    for Research and Engineering, and the Secretaries of the military 
    departments.''.
    (c) Chief Management Officer.--
        (1) In general.--Effective on February 1, 2018, there is a 
    Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
        (2) Appointment.--The Chief Management Officer shall be 
    appointed from civilian life by the President, by and with the 
    advice and consent of the Senate. The Chief Management Officer 
    shall be appointed from among persons who have an extensive 
    management or business background and experience with managing 
    large or complex organizations. A person may not be appointed as 
    Chief Management Officer within seven years after relief from 
    active duty as a commissioned officer of a regular component of an 
    Armed Force.
        (3) Duties and powers.--Subject to the authority, direction, 
    and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Chief Management 
    Officer shall perform such duties and exercise such powers as the 
    Secretary may prescribe, including--
            (A) serving as the chief management officer of the 
        Department of Defense with the mission of managing the business 
        operations of the Department;
            (B) establishing policies on, and supervising, all business 
        operations of the Department, including business 
        transformation, business planning and processes, performance 
        management, and business information technology management and 
        improvement activities and programs, including the allocation 
        of resources for business operations, and unifying business 
        management efforts across the Department;
            (C) serving as the principal advisor to the Secretary on 
        all business operations activities and programs in the 
        Department; and
            (D) the authority to direct the Secretaries of the military 
        departments and the heads of all other elements of the 
        Department with regard to matters for which the Chief 
        Management Officer has responsibility.
        (4) Conforming amendments.--Effective on February 1, 2018, 
    section 132 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (c); and
            (B) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively.
    (d) Repeal of Pending Authority To Establish Under Secretary of 
Defense for Business Management and Information.--Subsection (a) of 
section 901 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
Stat. 3462) is repealed.
    (e) Repeal of Certain ASD and Director Positions.--Chapter 4 of 
title 10, United States Code, is further amended--
        (1) in section 138(b)--
            (A) by striking paragraphs (6), (7), (8), and (9); and
            (B) by redesignating paragraph (10) as paragraph (6); and
        (2) by striking sections 139b and 139c.
    (f) Office of the Secretary of Defense.--Effective on February 1, 
2018, section 131(b)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (E) as 
    subparagraphs (C) through (F), respectively; and
        (2) by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following 
    new subparagraphs:
            ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.
            ``(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
        Sustainment.''.
    (g) Table of Section Amendments.--
        (1) Table of sections effective on enactment.--The table of 
    sections at the beginning of chapter 4 of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking the items relating to sections 139b 
    and 139c.
        (2) Table of sections effective on delayed effective date.--
    Effective on February 1, 2018, the table of sections at the 
    beginning of chapter 4 of such title is further amended by striking 
    the item relating to section 133 and inserting the following new 
    items:

``133a. Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
``133b. Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment.''.

    (h) Executive Schedule Level II.--Effective on February 1, 2018, 
section 5313 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
item relating to the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics and inserting the following new items:
        ``Under Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering.
        ``Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and 
    Sustainment.''.
    (i) Review Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
    review and identify a recommended organizational and management 
    structure for the Department of Defense that implements the 
    organizational policy guidance expressed in this section and the 
    amendments made by this section.
        (2) Elements.--The review and recommendations shall address, 
    but not be limited to, the following:
            (A) The organizational and management structure of the 
        Department including the disposition of leadership positions, 
        subordinate organizations, and defined relationships across 
        such leadership positions and organizations.
            (B) The recommended disposition within the Office of the 
        Secretary of Defense of the various Assistant Secretaries of 
        Defense, Deputy Assistant Secretaries of Defense, and Directors 
        affected by the organizational policy guidance.
            (C) The specific delineation of roles, responsibilities, 
        and authorities, as directed by the Secretary, for the 
        organizational and management structure covered by subparagraph 
        (A).
    (j) Reports.--
        (1) Interim report.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees an interim report on the review and recommended 
    organizational and management structure for the Department of 
    Defense as required by subsection (i).
        (2) Final report.--Not later than August 1, 2017, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a final report 
    on the review and recommended organizational and management 
    structure, including--
            (A) a proposed implementation plan for how the Department 
        would implement its recommendations;
            (B) recommendations for revisions to appointments and 
        qualifications, duties and powers, and precedent in the 
        Department;
            (C) recommendations for such legislative and administrative 
        action, including conforming and other amendments to law, as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate to implement the plan; and
            (D) any other matters that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    SEC. 902. RESPONSIBILITIES AND REPORTING OF THE CHIEF INFORMATION 
      OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Section 142(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
        ``(E) exercises authority, direction, and control over the 
    Defense Information Systems Agency, or any successor organization;
        ``(F) has the responsibilities for policy, oversight, guidance, 
    and coordination for all Department of Defense matters related to 
    electromagnetic spectrum, including coordination with other Federal 
    and industry agencies, coordination for classified programs, and in 
    coordination with the Under Secretary for Personnel and Readiness, 
    policies related to spectrum management workforce;
        ``(G) has the responsibilities for policy, oversight, guidance, 
    and coordination for nuclear command and control systems;
        ``(H) has the responsibilities for policy, oversight, and 
    guidance for matters related to precision navigation and timing; 
    and
        ``(I) has the responsibilities for policy, oversight, and 
    guidance for the architecture and programs related to the 
    networking and cyber defense architecture of the Department.''.
    (b) Direct Reporting.--Section 151(b)(5) of such title is amended 
by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, who 
reports directly to the Secretary and Deputy Secretary without 
intervening authority''.
    SEC. 903. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF PERSONNEL IN THE OFFICE OF THE 
      SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE HEADQUARTERS 
      OFFICES.
    (a) Office of the Secretary of Defense.--Section 143(b) of title 
10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``and civilian 
personnel'' and inserting ``, civilian, and detailed personnel''.
    (b) Joint Staff.--
        (1) In general.--Section 155 of such title is amended by adding 
    at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Personnel Limitations.--(1) The total number of members of 
the armed forces and civilian employees assigned or detailed to 
permanent duty for the Joint Staff may not exceed 2,069.
    ``(2) Not more than 1,500 members of the armed forces on the 
active-duty list may be assigned or detailed to permanent duty for the 
Joint Staff.
    ``(3) The limitations in paragraphs (1) and (2) do not apply in 
time of war.
    ``(4) Each limitation in paragraphs (1) and (2) may be exceeded by 
a number equal to 15 percent of such limitation in time of national 
emergency.''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on December 31, 2019.
    (c) Office of the Secretary of the Army.--Section 3014(f) of such 
title is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``time of war'' and all that 
    follows and inserting ``time of war.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) Each limitation in paragraphs (1) and (2) may be exceeded by 
a number equal to 15 percent of such limitation in time of national 
emergency.''.
    (d) Office of the Secretary of the Navy.--Section 5014(f) of such 
title is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``time of war'' and all that 
    follows and inserting ``time of war.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) Each limitation in paragraphs (1) and (2) may be exceeded by 
a number equal to 15 percent of such limitation in time of national 
emergency.''.
    (e) Office of the Secretary of the Air Force.--Section 8014(f) of 
such title is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``time of war'' and all that 
    follows and inserting ``time of war.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(5) Each limitation in paragraphs (1) and (2) may be exceeded by 
a number equal to 15 percent of such limitation in time of national 
emergency.''.
    SEC. 904. REPEAL OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT MODERNIZATION EXECUTIVE 
      COMMITTEE.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 185 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 7 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 185.

 Subtitle B--Organization and Management of the Department of Defense 
                               Generally

    SEC. 911. ORGANIZATIONAL STRATEGY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Organizational Strategy Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall formulate and issue to the Department of 
    Defense an organizational strategy for the Department that--
            (A) identifies the critical objectives and other 
        organizational outputs for the Department that span multiple 
        functional boundaries and would benefit from the use of cross-
        functional teams under this section to ensure collaboration and 
        integration across organizations within the Department;
            (B) improves the manner in which the Department integrates 
        the expertise and capacities of the functional components of 
        the Department for effective and efficient achievement of such 
        objectives and outputs;
            (C) improves the management of relationships and processes 
        involving the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint 
        Staff, the combatant commands, the military departments, and 
        the Defense Agencies with regard to such objectives and 
        outputs;
            (D) improves the ability of the Department to work 
        effectively in interagency processes with regard to such 
        objectives and outputs in order to better serve the President; 
        and
            (E) achieves an organizational structure that enhances 
        performance with regard to such objectives and outputs.
        (2) Elements.--The strategy shall provide for the following:
            (A) The appropriate use of cross-functional teams to manage 
        critical objectives and outputs of the Department described in 
        paragraph (1)(A).
            (B) The furtherance and advancement of a collaborative, 
        team-oriented, results-driven, and innovative culture within 
        the Department that fosters an open debate of ideas and 
        alternative courses of action, and supports cross-functional 
        teaming and integration.
    (b) Actions in Support of Strategy.--
        (1) Study.--The Department of Defense shall conduct a study of 
    the following in order to determine how best to implement effective 
    cross-functional teams in the Department to achieve the strategic 
    objectives of the Secretary of Defense:
            (A) Lessons learned, as reflected in academic literature, 
        business and management school case studies, and the work of 
        leading management consultant firms, on the successful and 
        failed application of cross-functional teams in the private 
        sector and government, and on the cultural factors necessary to 
        support effective cross-functional teams.
            (B) The historical and current use by the Department of 
        cross-functional working groups, integrated process teams, 
        councils, and committees, and the reasons why such entities 
        have or have not achieved high levels of teamwork or 
        effectiveness.
        (2) Conduct of study.--The study required by paragraph (1) 
    shall be conducted by an independent organization with widely 
    acknowledged expertise in modern organizational management and 
    teaming selected by the Secretary for purposes of the study.
        (3) Schedule.--The Secretary shall award any necessary contract 
    for the study required by paragraph (1) pursuant to paragraph (2) 
    by not later than March 15, 2017, and shall provide the results of 
    the study to the congressional defense committees by not later than 
    July 15, 2017.
    (c) Cross-functional Teams.--In support of the strategy required by 
subsection (a):
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish 
    cross-functional teams to address critical objectives and outputs 
    for such teams as are determined to be appropriate in accordance 
    with the organizational strategy issued under subsection (a), with 
    initial teams established by not later than September 30, 2017.
        (2) Purposes.--The purposes of cross-functional teams 
    established pursuant to this subsection shall be, as determined 
    appropriate by the Secretary--
            (A) to provide for effective collaboration and integration 
        across organizational and functional boundaries in the 
        Department of Defense;
            (B) to develop, at the direction of the Secretary, 
        recommendations for comprehensive and fully integrated 
        policies, strategies, plans, and resourcing decisions;
            (C) to make decisions on cross-functional issues, to the 
        extent authorized by the Secretary and within parameters 
        established by the Secretary; and
            (D) to provide oversight for and, as directed by the 
        Secretary, supervise the implementation of approved policies, 
        strategies, plans, and resourcing decisions approved by the 
        Secretary.
        (3) Guidance on teams.--Not later than September 30, 2017, the 
    Secretary shall issue guidance--
            (A) addressing the role, authorities, reporting 
        relationships, resourcing, manning, training, and operations of 
        cross-functional teams established pursuant to this subsection;
            (B) delineating decision-making authority of such teams;
            (C) providing that the leaders of functional components of 
        the Department that provide personnel to such teams respect and 
        respond to team needs and activities; and
            (D) emphasizing that personnel selected for assignment to 
        such teams shall faithfully represent the views and expertise 
        of their functional components while contributing to the best 
        of their ability to the success of the team concerned.
        (4) Participants.--In establishing a cross-functional team 
    pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall consider personnel 
    from the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, the 
    military departments, and the Defense Agencies in all functional 
    areas that the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (5) Team personnel.--For each cross-functional team established 
    by the Secretary pursuant to this subsection, the Secretary shall--
            (A) assign as leader of such team a senior qualified and 
        experienced individual, who shall report directly to the 
        Secretary regarding the activities of such team;
            (B) delegate to the team leader designated pursuant to 
        subparagraph (A) authority to select members of such team from 
        among civilian employees of the Department and members of the 
        Armed Forces in any grade who are recommended for membership on 
        such team by the head of a functional component of the 
        Department within the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the 
        Joint Staff, and the military departments, by the commander of 
        a combatant command, or by the director of a Defense Agency;
            (C) provide the team leader with necessary full time 
        support from team members, and the means to co-locate team 
        members;
            (D) ensure that team members and all leaders in functional 
        organizations that are in the supervisory chain for personnel 
        serving on such team receive training in elements of successful 
        cross-functional teams, including teamwork, collaboration, 
        conflict resolution, and appropriately representing the views 
        and expertise of their functional components; and
            (E) ensure that the congressional defense committees are 
        provided information on the progress and results of such team 
        upon request.
        (6) Team strategies and decision-making authority.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
        objectives of each cross-functional team established pursuant 
        to this subsection are clearly established in writing, through 
        a memorandum, statement, charter, or similar document.
            (B) Metrics.--To improve team performance and 
        accountability, the Secretary shall task each team, as 
        appropriate, to establish a strategy to achieve the objectives 
        specified by the Secretary, metrics for evaluation of the 
        achievement of such objectives by such team, and the alignment 
        of individual and team goals for the achievement of such 
        objectives by such team.
            (C) Delegation of authority.--The Secretary may delegate to 
        a team any decision-making authority that, and shall delegate 
        such authority as, the Secretary considers appropriate to 
        permit such team to achieve the objectives established by the 
        Secretary.
        (7) Review of teams.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
    on which the first cross-functional team is established pursuant to 
    this subsection, the Secretary shall complete an analysis, with 
    support from external experts in organizational and management 
    sciences, of the successes and failures of teams established 
    pursuant to this subsection, and determine how to apply the lessons 
    learned from that analysis.
        (8) Report on establishment.--Not later than 18 months after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit 
    to Congress a report on the establishment of cross-functional teams 
    under this subsection, including descriptions from the leaders of 
    teams established prior to the date on which this report is 
    submitted of the manner in which the teams were designed and how 
    they functioned.
    (d) Directive on Collaborative Culture and Behavior.--The guidance 
issued by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to subsection (c)(3) shall 
also--
        (1) articulate the shared purposes, values, and principles for 
    the operation of the Office of the Secretary of Defense that are 
    required to promote a team-oriented, collaborative, results-driven 
    culture within the Office to support the primary objectives of the 
    Department of Defense;
        (2) ensure that collaboration across functional and 
    organizational boundaries is an important factor in the performance 
    review of leaders of cross-functional teams established pursuant to 
    subsection (c), members of teams, and other appropriate leaders of 
    the Department; and
        (3) identify key practices that senior leaders of the 
    Department should follow with regard to leadership, organizational 
    practice, collaboration, and the functioning of cross-functional 
    teams, and the types of personnel behavior that senior leaders 
    should encourage and discourage.
    (e) Streamlining of Organizational Structure and Processes of 
OSD.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall take such actions as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to streamline the organizational structure and 
processes of the Office of the Secretary of Defense in order to 
increase spans of control, achieve a reduction in layers of management, 
eliminate unnecessary duplication between the Office and the Joint 
Staff, and reduce the time required to complete standard processes and 
activities.
    (f) Training for Individuals Nominated for Appointment for OSD 
Positions Confirmed by the Senate.--
        (1) In general.--Within three months of the appointment of an 
    individual to a position in the Office of the Secretary of Defense 
    appointable by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, the 
    individual shall complete a course of instruction in leadership, 
    modern organizational practice, collaboration, and the operation of 
    teams described in subsection (c).
        (2) Waiver.--The President may waive the requirement in 
    paragraph (1) with respect to an individual if the Secretary 
    determines in writing that the individual possesses, through 
    training and experience, the skill and knowledge otherwise to be 
    provided through a course of instruction as described in that 
    paragraph.
    (g) Comptroller General of the United States Assessments.--
        (1) Biannual report on assessments.--Not later than six months 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every six months 
    thereafter through December 31, 2019, the Comptroller General of 
    the United States shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
    of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report setting 
    forth a comprehensive assessment of the actions taken under this 
    section during the six-month period ending on the date of such 
    report and cumulatively since the date of the enactment of this 
    Act.
        (2) Assessment team.--The Comptroller General may establish 
    within the Government Accountability Office a team of analysts to 
    assist the Comptroller General in the performance assessments 
    required by this subsection.
    SEC. 912. POLICY, ORGANIZATION, AND MANAGEMENT GOALS AND PRIORITIES 
      OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--A Secretary of Defense serving in that position 
pursuant to an appointment to that position after January 20, 2017, 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives, not later than each of the deadlines 
specified in subsection (b), a report on the policy, organization, and 
management goals and priorities of the Secretary for the Department of 
Defense. Each report shall include, current as of the date of such 
report, an identification of the following:
        (1) Policy goals and priorities, including specific and 
    measurable performance and implementation targets.
        (2) Organization and management goals and priorities, including 
    specific and measurable performance and implementation targets that 
    address, but are not limited to, the following:
            (A) The elimination or consolidation of any unnecessary or 
        redundant functions within the Department.
            (B) Force management and shaping, including recommendations 
        for such legislative action as is required to meet force 
        management and shaping goals and priorities.
            (C) The delayering or reorganization of headquarters 
        organizations across the Department.
        (3) Any other goals or priorities for the Department the 
    Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Deadlines.--The deadlines for the submittal of reports under 
subsection (a) are April 1, 2017, and February 1 of each year 
thereafter though 2022.
    (c) Briefings Satisfy Later Reporting Requirements.--Any report 
required under subsection (a) after the initial report may be provided 
in the form of a briefing.
    SEC. 913. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE DELIVERY UNIT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense serving in that position 
as of March 1, 2017, may establish within the Office of the Secretary 
of Defense a unit of personnel that shall be responsible for providing 
expertise and support throughout the Department of Defense in an effort 
to improve the implementation of policies and priorities across the 
Department. The unit may be known as the ``delivery unit''.
    (b) Composition.--The unit established pursuant to subsection (a) 
shall consist of not more than 30 individuals selected by the Secretary 
primarily from among individuals outside the Government who have 
significant experience and expertise in management consulting, 
organizational architecture, relationship management, or data 
analytics.
    (c) Duties.--The unit established pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
have the duties as follows:
        (1) To advise the Secretary on improving the implementation and 
    delivery of policies and priorities of the Department, including 
    making recommendations on establishing performance or 
    implementation targets, assisting in the development of delivery 
    plans to achieve targets, and monitoring and measuring progress.
        (2) To work across organizations, missions, and functions of 
    the Department in order to identify obstacles to improving the 
    implementation of policies and priorities of the Department, 
    including organization, culture, and incentives, and to recommend 
    options to the Secretary for addressing such obstacles.
    (d) Sunset.--The unit established pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
sunset on January 31, 2021.
    SEC. 914. PERFORMANCE OF CIVILIAN FUNCTIONS BY MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    Section 129a of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Performance of Civilian Functions by Military Personnel.--(1) 
Functions performed by civilian personnel should not be performed by 
military personnel except--
        ``(A) if the Secretary of the military department concerned 
    determines in writing based on mission requirements that the 
    performance of such functions by military personnel, including a 
    permanent conversion of such functions to performance by military 
    personnel, is cost-effective or required by a mission; or
        ``(B) if the performance of such functions by military 
    personnel is required to address critical staffing needs resulting 
    from a reduction in personnel or budgetary resources by reason of 
    an Act of Congress, in which case such functions may not be 
    performed by military personnel for a period in excess of one year.
    ``(2) In determining the workforce mix between civilian and 
military personnel, the Secretary of a military department shall 
reserve military personnel for the performance of the functions that, 
in the estimation of the Secretary, are required to be performed by 
military personnel in order to achieve national defense goals or in 
order to enable the proper functioning of the military department. In 
making workforce decisions, the Secretary shall account for the 
relative budgetary impact of military versus civilian personnel in 
determining the functions required to be performed by military 
personnel.''.
    SEC. 915. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO EFFICIENCIES PLAN FOR 
      THE CIVILIAN PERSONNEL WORKFORCE AND SERVICE CONTRACTOR WORKFORCE 
      OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Section 955 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1896; 10 U.S.C. 129a note) is 
repealed.

    Subtitle C--Joint Chiefs of Staff and Combatant Command Matters

    SEC. 921. JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF AND RELATED COMBATANT COMMAND 
      MATTERS.
    (a) Functions of Joint Chiefs of Staff.--
        (1) Consultation by chairman.--Subsection (c)(1) of section 151 
    of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``as he 
    considers appropriate'' and inserting ``as necessary''.
        (2) Modification of advice and opinions of members other than 
    chairman.--Such section is further amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``subsections (d) and 
        (e)'' and inserting ``subsection (d)'';
            (B) in subsection (d)--
                (i) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
            paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and
                (ii) by inserting before paragraph (1), as redesignated 
            by clause (i), the following new paragraph (1):
    ``(1) After first informing the Secretary of Defense and the 
Chairman, the members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, individually or 
collectively, in their capacity as military advisors, may provide 
advice to the President, the National Security Council, the Homeland 
Security Council, or the Secretary of Defense on a particular matter on 
the judgment of the military member.''; and
            (C) by striking subsection (e).
    (b) Term and Reappointment of Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff.--
        (1) In general.--Section 152(a) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``two years, beginning on 
        October 1 of odd-numbered years'' and all that follows and 
        inserting ``four years, beginning on October 1 of an odd-
        numbered year. The limitation does not apply in time of war.''; 
        and
            (B) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph (3):
    ``(3) The President may extend to eight years the combined period 
of service of an officer as Chairman and Vice Chairman if the President 
determines that such action is in the national interest. The limitation 
in this paragraph does not apply in time of war.''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on January 1, 2019, and shall apply to individuals 
    appointed as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on or after that 
    date.
    (c) Functions of Chairman of Joint Chiefs of Staff.--The text of 
section 153 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the President 
and the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
shall be responsible for the following
        ``(1) Strategic direction.--Assisting the President and the 
    Secretary in providing for the strategic direction of the armed 
    forces.
        ``(2) Strategic and contingency planning.--In matters relating 
    to strategic and contingency planning--
            ``(A) developing strategic frameworks and preparing 
        strategic plans, as required, to guide the use and employment 
        of military force and related activities across all geographic 
        regions and military functions and domains, and to sustain 
        military efforts over different durations of time, as 
        necessary;
            ``(B) advising the Secretary on the production of the 
        national defense strategy required by section 113(g) of this 
        title and the national security strategy required by section 
        108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3043);
            ``(C) preparing military analysis, options, and plans, as 
        the Chairman considers appropriate, to recommend to the 
        President and the Secretary;
            ``(D) providing for the preparation and review of 
        contingency plans which conform to policy guidance from the 
        President and the Secretary; and
            ``(E) preparing joint logistic and mobility plans to 
        support national defense strategies and recommending the 
        assignment of responsibilities to the armed forces in 
        accordance with such plans.
        ``(3) Global military integration.--In matters relating to 
    global military strategic and operational integration--
            ``(A) providing advice to the President and the Secretary 
        on ongoing military operations; and
            ``(B) advising the Secretary on the allocation and transfer 
        of forces among geographic and functional combatant commands, 
        as necessary, to address transregional, multi-domain, and 
        multifunctional threats.
        ``(4) Comprehensive joint readiness.--In matters relating to 
    comprehensive joint readiness--
            ``(A) evaluating the overall preparedness of the joint 
        force to perform the responsibilities of that force under 
        national defense strategies and to respond to significant 
        contingencies worldwide;
            ``(B) assessing the risks to United States missions, 
        strategies, and military personnel that stem from shortfalls in 
        military readiness across the armed forces, and developing risk 
        mitigation options;
            ``(C) advising the Secretary on critical deficiencies and 
        strengths in joint force capabilities (including manpower, 
        logistics, and mobility support) identified during the 
        preparation and review of national defense strategies and 
        contingency plans and assessing the effect of such deficiencies 
        and strengths on meeting national security objectives and 
        policy and on strategic plans;
            ``(D) advising the Secretary on the missions and functions 
        that are likely to require contractor or other external support 
        to meet national security objectives and policy and strategy, 
        and the risks associated with such support; and
            ``(E) establishing and maintaining, after consultation with 
        the commanders of the unified and specified combatant commands, 
        a uniform system of evaluating the preparedness of each such 
        command, and groups of commands collectively, to carry out 
        missions assigned to the command or commands.
        ``(5) Joint capability development.--In matters relating to 
    joint capability development--
            ``(A) identifying new joint military capabilities based on 
        advances in technology and concepts of operation needed to 
        maintain the technological and operational superiority of the 
        armed forces, and recommending investments and experiments in 
        such capabilities to the Secretary;
            ``(B) performing military net assessments of the joint 
        capabilities of the armed forces of the United States and its 
        allies in comparison with the capabilities of potential 
        adversaries;
            ``(C) advising the Secretary under section 163(b)(2) of 
        this title on the priorities of the requirements identified by 
        the commanders of the unified and specified combatant commands;
            ``(D) advising the Secretary on the extent to which the 
        program recommendations and budget proposals of the military 
        departments and other components of the Department of Defense 
        for a fiscal year conform with the priorities established in 
        national defense strategies and with the priorities established 
        for the requirements of the unified and specified combatant 
        commands;
            ``(E) advising the Secretary on new and alternative joint 
        military capabilities, and alternative program recommendations 
        and budget proposals, within projected resource levels and 
        guidance provided by the Secretary, in order to achieve greater 
        conformance with the priorities referred to in subparagraph 
        (D);
            ``(F) assessing joint military capabilities and 
        identifying, approving, and prioritizing gaps in such 
        capabilities to meet national defense strategies, pursuant to 
        section 181 of this title; and
            ``(G) recommending to the Secretary appropriate trade-offs 
        among life-cycle cost, schedule, performance, and procurement 
        quantity objectives in the acquisition of materiel and 
        equipment to support the strategic and contingency plans 
        required by this paragraph in the most effective and efficient 
        manner.
        ``(6) Joint force development activities.--In matters relating 
    to joint force development activities--
            ``(A) developing doctrine for the joint employment of the 
        armed forces;
            ``(B) formulating policies and technical standards, and 
        executing actions, for the joint training of the armed forces;
            ``(C) formulating policies for coordinating the military 
        education of members of the armed forces;
            ``(D) formulating policies for concept development and 
        experimentation for the joint employment of the armed forces;
            ``(E) formulating policies for gathering, developing, and 
        disseminating joint lessons learned for the armed forces; and
            ``(F) advising the Secretary on development of joint 
        command, control, communications, and cybercapability, 
        including integration and interoperability of such capability, 
        through requirements, integrated architectures, data standards, 
        and assessments.
        ``(7) Other matters.--In other matters--
            ``(A) recommending to the Secretary, in accordance with 
        section 166 of this title, a budget proposal for activities of 
        each unified and specified combatant command;
            ``(B) providing for representation of the United States on 
        the Military Staff Committee of the United Nations in 
        accordance with the Charter of the United Nations; and
            ``(C) performing such other duties as may be prescribed by 
        law or by the President or the Secretary.''.
    (d) Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Matters.--
        (1) Term of service.--Paragraph (3) of section 154(a) of title 
    10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``for a term of two 
    years'' and all that follows and inserting ``for a single term of 
    four years, beginning on October 1 of an odd-numbered year, except 
    that the term may not begin in the same year as the term of a 
    Chairman. In time of war, there is no limit on the number of 
    reappointments.''.
        (2) Ineligibility for service as chairman or any other position 
    in the armed forces.--Such section is further amended by adding at 
    the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4)(A) The Vice Chairman shall not be eligible for promotion to 
the position of Chairman or any other position in the armed forces.
    ``(B) The President may waive subparagraph (A) if the President 
determines such action is necessary in the national interest.''.
        (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
    shall take effect on January 1, 2021, and shall apply to 
    individuals appointed as Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
    on or after that date.
    (e) Commanders of the Combatant Commands.--Section 164 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
    ``(3) Among the full range of command responsibilities specified in 
subsection (c) and as provided for in section 161 of this title, the 
primary duties of the commander of a combatant command shall be as 
follows:
        ``(A) To produce plans for the employment of the armed forces 
    to execute national defense strategies and respond to significant 
    military contingencies.
        ``(B) To take actions, as necessary, to deter conflict.
        ``(C) To command United States armed forces as directed by the 
    Secretary and approved by the President.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Support to Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.--The 
commander of a combatant command shall provide such information to the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as may be necessary for the 
Chairman to perform the duties of the Chairman under section 153 of 
this title.''.
    SEC. 922. ORGANIZATION OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR MANAGEMENT 
      OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES AND SPECIAL OPERATIONS.
    (a) Responsibility of Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
Operations and Low Intensity Conflict.--Section 138(b)(4) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Secretary of Defense, the Assistant Secretary shall do the following:
        ``(A) Exercise authority, direction, and control of all 
    special-operations peculiar administrative matters relating to the 
    organization, training, and equipping of special operations forces.
        ``(B) Assist the Secretary and the Under Secretary of Defense 
    for Policy in the development and supervision of policy, program 
    planning and execution, and allocation and use of resources for the 
    activities of the Department of Defense for the following:
            ``(i) Irregular warfare, combating terrorism, and the 
        special operations activities specified by section 167(k) of 
        this title.
            ``(ii) Integrating the functional activities of the 
        headquarters of the Department to most efficiently and 
        effectively provide for required special operations forces and 
        capabilities.
            ``(iii) Such other matters as may be specified by the 
        Secretary and the Under Secretary.''.
    (b) Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 4 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    amended by section 901(e)(2) of this Act, is further amended by 
    inserting after section 139a the following new section:
``Sec. 139b. Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council
    ``(a) In General.--In order to fulfill the responsibilities 
specified in section 138(b)(4) of this title, the Assistant Secretary 
of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, or the 
designee of the Assistant Secretary, shall establish and lead a team to 
be known as the `Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council' (in 
this section referred to as the `Council').
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Council is to integrate the 
functional activities of the headquarters of the Department of Defense 
in order to most efficiently and effectively provide for special 
operations forces and capabilities. In fulfilling this purpose, the 
Council shall develop and continuously improve policy, joint processes, 
and procedures that facilitate the development, acquisition, 
integration, employment, and sustainment of special operations forces 
and capabilities.
    ``(c) Membership.--The Council shall include the following:
        ``(1) The Assistant Secretary, who shall act as leader of the 
    Council.
        ``(2) Appropriate senior representatives of each of the 
    following:
            ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Research and 
        Engineering.
            ``(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Management and 
        Support.
            ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
            ``(D) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
        Readiness.
            ``(E) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
            ``(F) The General Counsel of the Department of Defense.
            ``(G) The other Assistant Secretaries of Defense under the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            ``(H) The military departments.
            ``(I) The Joint Staff.
            ``(J) The United States Special Operations Command.
            ``(K) Such other officials or Agencies, elements, or 
        components of the Department of Defense as the Secretary of 
        Defense considers appropriate
    ``(d) Operation.--The Council shall operate continuously.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 4 of such title, as amended by section 901(g)(1) of this 
    Act, is further amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 139a the following new item:

``139b. Special Operations Policy and Oversight Council.''.

    (c) US Special Operations Command Matters.--
        (1) Authority of commander.--Subsection (e)(2) of section 167 
    of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``The commander'' and inserting ``Subject to the authority, 
        direction, and control of the Assistant Secretary of Defense 
        for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict, the 
        commander''; and
            (B) by striking subparagraph (J) and inserting the 
        following new subparagraph (J):
        ``(J) Monitoring the promotions of special operations forces 
    and coordinating with the military departments regarding the 
    assignment, retention, training, professional military education, 
    and special and incentive pays of special operations forces.''.
        (2) Administrative chain of command.--Such section is further 
    amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsections (f) through (k) as 
        subsections (g), through (l), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
        subsection (f):
    ``(f) Administrative Chain of Command.--(1) Unless otherwise 
directed by the President, the administrative chain of command to the 
special operations command runs--
        ``(A) from the President to the Secretary of Defense;
        ``(B) from the Secretary of Defense to the Assistant Secretary 
    of Defense for Special Operations and Low Intensity Conflict; and
        ``(C) from the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Special 
    Operations and Low Intensity Conflict to the commander of the 
    special operations command.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, administrative chain of 
command refers to the exercise of authority, direction and control with 
respect to the special operations-peculiar administration and support 
of the special operations command, including the readiness and 
organization of special operations forces, resources and equipment, and 
civilian personnel. It does not refer to the exercise of authority, 
direction, and control of operational matters that are subject to the 
operational chain of command of the commanders of combatant commands or 
the exercise of authority, direction, and control of personnel, 
resources, equipment, and other matters that are not special 
operations-peculiar that are the purview of the armed forces.''.
    SEC. 923. ESTABLISHMENT OF UNIFIED COMBATANT COMMAND FOR CYBER 
      OPERATIONS.
    (a) Establishment of Cyber Command.--Chapter 6 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 167a the following 
new section:
``Sec. 167b. Unified combatant command for cyber operations
    ``(a) Establishment.--With the advice and assistance of the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the President, through the 
Secretary of Defense, shall establish under section 161 of this title a 
unified combatant command for cyber operations forces (hereinafter in 
this section referred to as the `cyber command'). The principal 
function of the command is to prepare cyber operations forces to carry 
out assigned missions.
    ``(b) Assignment of Forces.--Unless otherwise directed by the 
Secretary of Defense, all active and reserve cyber operations forces of 
the armed forces stationed in the United States shall be assigned to 
the cyber command.
    ``(c) Grade of Commander.--The commander of the cyber command shall 
hold the grade of general or, in the case of an officer of the Navy, 
admiral while serving in that position, without vacating that officer's 
permanent grade. The commander of such command shall be appointed to 
that grade by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, for service in that position.
    ``(d) Command of Activity or Mission.--(1) Unless otherwise 
directed by the President or the Secretary of Defense, a cyber 
operations activity or mission shall be conducted under the command of 
the commander of the unified combatant command in whose geographic area 
the activity or mission is to be conducted.
    ``(2) The commander of the cyber command shall exercise command of 
a selected cyber operations mission if directed to do so by the 
President or the Secretary of Defense.
    ``(e) Authority of Combatant Commander.--(1) In addition to the 
authority prescribed in section 164(c) of this title, the commander of 
the cyber command shall be responsible for, and shall have the 
authority to conduct, all affairs of such command relating to cyber 
operations activities.
    ``(2)(A) Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the 
Principal Cyber Advisor, the commander of such command shall be 
responsible for, and shall have the authority to conduct, the following 
functions relating to cyber operations activities (whether or not 
relating to the cyber command):
        ``(i) Developing strategy, doctrine, and tactics.
        ``(ii) Preparing and submitting to the Secretary of Defense 
    program recommendations and budget proposals for cyber operations 
    forces and for other forces assigned to the cyber command.
        ``(iii) Exercising authority, direction, and control over the 
    expenditure of funds--
            ``(I) for forces assigned directly to the cyber command; 
        and
            ``(II) for cyber operations forces assigned to unified 
        combatant commands other than the cyber command, with respect 
        to all matters covered by section 807 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
        Stat. 886; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) and, with respect to a matter 
        not covered by such section, to the extent directed by the 
        Secretary of Defense.
        ``(iv) Training and certification of assigned joint forces.
        ``(v) Conducting specialized courses of instruction for 
    commissioned and noncommissioned officers.
        ``(vi) Validating requirements.
        ``(vii) Establishing priorities for requirements.
        ``(viii) Ensuring the interoperability of equipment and forces.
        ``(ix) Formulating and submitting requirements for intelligence 
    support.
        ``(x) Monitoring the promotion of cyber operation forces and 
    coordinating with the military departments regarding the 
    assignment, retention, training, professional military education, 
    and special and incentive pays of cyber operation forces.
    ``(B) The authority, direction, and control exercised by the 
Principal Cyber Advisor for purposes of this section is authority, 
direction, and control with respect to the administration and support 
of the cyber command, including readiness and organization of cyber 
operations forces, cyber operations-peculiar equipment and resources, 
and civilian personnel.
    ``(C) Nothing in this section shall be construed as providing the 
Principal Cyber Advisor authority, direction, and control of 
operational matters that are subject to the operational chain of 
command of the combatant commands or the exercise of authority, 
direction, and control of personnel, resources, equipment, and other 
matters that are not cyber-operations peculiar and that are in the 
purview of the armed forces.
    ``(3) The commander of the cyber command shall be responsible for--
        ``(A) ensuring the combat readiness of forces assigned to the 
    cyber command; and
        ``(B) monitoring the preparedness to carry out assigned 
    missions of cyber forces assigned to unified combatant commands 
    other than the cyber command.
        ``(C) The staff of the commander shall include an inspector 
    general who shall conduct internal audits and inspections of 
    purchasing and contracting actions through the cyber operations 
    command and such other inspector general functions as may be 
    assigned.
    ``(f) Intelligence and Special Activities.--This section does not 
constitute authority to conduct any activity which, if carried out as 
an intelligence activity by the Department of Defense, would require a 
notice to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
Representatives under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 6 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating 
to section 167a the following new item:

``167b. Unified combatant command for cyber operations.''.
    SEC. 924. ASSIGNED FORCES OF THE COMBATANT COMMANDS.
    Section 162(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``Except as provided in paragraph (2)'' and 
        inserting ``As directed by the Secretary of Defense'';
            (B) by striking ``all forces'' and inserting ``specified 
        forces''; and
            (C) by striking the second sentence;
        (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (2):
    ``(2) A force not assigned to a combatant command or to the United 
States element of the North American Aerospace Defense Command under 
paragraph (1) shall remain assigned to the military department 
concerned for carrying out the responsibilities of the Secretary of the 
military department concerned as specified in section 3013, 5013, or 
8013 of this title, as applicable.''; and
        (3) in paragraph (4)--
            (A) by striking ``operating with the geographic area'' and
            (B) by striking ``assigned to, and''.
    SEC. 925. MODIFICATIONS TO THE REQUIREMENTS PROCESS.
    (a) In General.--The text of section 181 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--There is a Joint Requirements Oversight Council 
in the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Mission.--In addition to other matters assigned to it by the 
President or Secretary of Defense, the Joint Requirements Oversight 
Council shall assist the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in--
        ``(1) assessing joint military capabilities, and identifying, 
    approving, and prioritizing gaps in such capabilities, to meet 
    applicable requirements in the national defense strategy under 
    section 118 of this title;
        ``(2) reviewing and validating whether a capability proposed by 
    an armed force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department 
    of Defense fulfills a gap in joint military capabilities;
        ``(3) developing recommendations, in consultation with the 
    advisors to the Council under subsection (d), for program cost and 
    fielding targets pursuant to section 2448a of this title that--
            ``(A) require a level of resources that is consistent with 
        the level of priority assigned to the associated capability 
        gap; and
            ``(B) have an estimated period of time for the delivery of 
        an initial operational capability that is consistent with the 
        urgency of the associated capability gap;
        ``(4) establishing and approving joint performance requirements 
    that--
            ``(A) ensure interoperability, where appropriate, between 
        and among joint military capabilities; and
            ``(B) are necessary, as designated by the Chairman of the 
        Joint Chiefs of Staff, to fulfill capability gaps of more than 
        one armed force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the 
        Department;
        ``(5) reviewing performance requirements for any existing or 
    proposed capability that the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
    determines should be reviewed by the Council;
        ``(6) identifying new joint military capabilities based on 
    advances in technology and concepts of operation; and
        ``(7) identifying alternatives to any acquisition program that 
    meets approved joint military capability requirements for the 
    purposes of sections 2366a(b), 2366b(a)(4), and 2433(e)(2) of this 
    title.
    ``(c) Composition.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Joint Requirements Oversight Council is 
    composed of the following:
            ``(A) The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who 
        is the Chair of the Council and is the principal adviser to the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff for making 
        recommendations about joint military capabilities or joint 
        performance requirements.
            ``(B) An Army officer in the grade of general.
            ``(C) A Navy officer in the grade of admiral.
            ``(D) An Air Force officer in the grade of general.
            ``(E) A Marine Corps officer in the grade of general.
        ``(2) Selection of members.--Members of the Council under 
    subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (1) shall be 
    selected by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, after 
    consultation with the Secretary of Defense, from officers in the 
    grade of general or admiral, as the case may be, who are 
    recommended for selection by the Secretary of the military 
    department concerned.
        ``(3) Recommendations.--In making any recommendation to the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff as described in paragraph 
    (1)(A), the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
    provide the Chairman any dissenting view of members of the Council 
    under paragraph (1) with respect to such recommendation.
    ``(d) Advisors.--
        ``(1) In general.--The following officials of the Department of 
    Defense shall serve as advisors to the Joint Requirements Oversight 
    Council on matters within their authority and expertise:
            ``(A) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
            ``(B) The Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
            ``(C) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics.
            ``(D) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller).
            ``(E) The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
        Evaluation.
            ``(F) The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.
            ``(G) The commander of a combatant command when matters 
        related to the area of responsibility or functions of that 
        command are under consideration by the Council.
        ``(2) Input from combatant commands.--The Council shall seek 
    and consider input from the commanders of the combatant commands in 
    carrying out its mission under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
    (b).
        ``(3) Input from chiefs of staff.--The Council shall seek, and 
    strongly consider, the views of the Chiefs of Staff of the armed 
    forces, in their roles as customers of the acquisition system, on 
    matters pertaining to a capability proposed by an armed force, 
    Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department of Defense under 
    subsection (b)(2) and joint performance requirements pursuant to 
    subsection (b)(3).
    ``(e) Performance Requirements as Responsibility of Armed Forces.--
The Chief of Staff of an armed force is responsible for all performance 
requirements for that armed force and, except for performance 
requirements specified in subsections (b)(4) and (b)(5), such 
performance requirements do not need to be validated by the Joint 
Requirements Oversight Council.
    ``(f) Analytic Support.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
analytical organizations within the Department of Defense, such as the 
Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, provide resources and 
expertise in operations research, systems analysis, and cost estimation 
to the Joint Requirements Oversight Council to assist the Council in 
performing the mission in subsection (b).
    ``(g) Availability of Oversight Information to Congressional 
Defense Committees.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that, in the 
case of a recommendation by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
to the Secretary that is approved by the Secretary, oversight 
information with respect to such recommendation that is produced as a 
result of the activities of the Joint Requirements Oversight Council is 
made available in a timely fashion to the congressional defense 
committees.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `joint military capabilities' means the 
    collective capabilities across the joint force, including both 
    joint and force-specific capabilities, that are available to 
    conduct military operations.
        ``(2) The term `performance requirement' means a performance 
    attribute of a particular system considered critical or essential 
    to the development of an effective military capability.
        ``(3) The term `joint performance requirement' means a 
    performance requirement that is critical or essential to ensure 
    interoperability or fulfill a capability gap of more than one armed 
    force, Defense Agency, or other entity of the Department of 
    Defense, or impacts the joint force in other ways such as 
    logistics.
        ``(4) The term `oversight information' means information and 
    materials comprising analysis and justification that are prepared 
    to support a recommendation that is made to, and approved by, the 
    Secretary of Defense.''.
    (b) Program Cost and Field Targets.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a process to develop program cost and fielding targets 
pursuant to section 2448a of title 10, United States Code, that--
        (1) is co-chaired by the Deputy Secretary of Defense and the 
    Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff;
        (2) is supported by--
            (A) the Joint Staff, to provide expertise on joint military 
        capabilities, capability gaps, and performance requirements;
            (B) the Office of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, 
        to provide expertise in resource allocation, operations 
        research, systems analysis, and cost estimation; and
            (C) other Department of Defense organizations determined 
        appropriate by the Secretary; and
        (3) ensures that appropriate trade-offs are made among life-
    cycle cost, schedule, and performance objectives and procurement 
    quantity objectives.
    SEC. 926. REVIEW OF COMBATANT COMMAND ORGANIZATION.
    (a) Reviews Required.--
        (1) In general.--The entities specified in paragraph (2) shall 
    each conduct a review of the organizational structures of the 
    combatant commands, and shall develop recommendations for improving 
    the overall effectiveness of the combatant commands, and addressing 
    threats that span multiple regions, functions, and domains.
        (2) Entities.--The entities specified in this paragraph are the 
    following:
            (A) The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
        Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
            (B) An independent entity with appropriate expertise, 
        selected by the Secretary and with which the Secretary shall 
        enter into a contract by not later than 30 days after the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Elements.--Each review under subsection (a) shall include an 
examination of the following:
        (1) The evolution of combatant command mission requirements and 
    the ability of combatant commands to satisfy those mission 
    requirements.
        (2) The evolution of the organizational structures, 
    compositions, and sizes of the combatant commands, and how such 
    factors may have contributed to combatant command performance in 
    satisfying mission requirements, planning, and maintaining force 
    readiness.
        (3) The resources of combatant commands, including the degree 
    to which combatant command force requirements are resourced.
        (4) The benefits, drawbacks, and resource implications of 
    eliminating or consolidating combatant commands, or of altering the 
    relationships among combatant commands and their component command 
    organizations or the command and control structures of the 
    combatant commands.
        (5) Organizational structures of the combatant commands, 
    including Joint Task Forces or task-organized forces operating 
    below the combatant command level, and the benefits, drawbacks, and 
    resource implications of alternative organizational structures.
    (c) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2017, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings 
and recommendations of each review required by subsection (a).

Subtitle D--Organization and Management of Other Department of Defense 
                          Offices and Elements

    SEC. 931. QUALIFICATIONS FOR APPOINTMENT OF THE SECRETARIES OF THE 
      MILITARY DEPARTMENTS.
    (a) Secretary of the Army.--Section 3013(a)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after the first sentence the 
following new sentence: ``The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent 
practicable, be appointed from among persons most highly qualified for 
the position by reason of background and experience, including persons 
with appropriate management or leadership experience.''.
    (b) Secretary of the Navy.--Section 5013(a)(1) of such title is 
amended by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
sentence: ``The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be 
appointed from among persons most highly qualified for the position by 
reason of background and experience, including persons with appropriate 
management or leadership experience.''.
    (c) Secretary of the Air Force.--Section 8013(a)(1) of such title 
is amended by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
sentence: ``The Secretary shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be 
appointed from among persons most highly qualified for the position by 
reason of background and experience, including persons with appropriate 
management or leadership experience.''.
    SEC. 932. ENHANCED PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITIES FOR THE CHIEF 
      OF THE NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU.
    Section 10508 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a) Manpower Requirements of National Guard 
    Bureau.--'' before ``The manpower requirements''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Personnel for Functions of National Guard Bureau.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Chief of the National Guard Bureau may 
    program for, appoint, employ, administer, detail, and assign 
    persons under sections 2103, 2105, and 3101 of title 5, or section 
    328 of title 32, within the National Guard Bureau and the National 
    Guard of each State, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District 
    of Columbia, Guam, and the Virgin Islands to execute the functions 
    of the National Guard Bureau and the missions of the National 
    Guard, and missions as assigned by the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau.
        ``(2) Administration through adjutants general.--The Chief of 
    the National Guard Bureau may designate the adjutants general 
    referred to in section 314 of title 32 to appoint, employ, and 
    administer the National Guard employees authorized by this 
    subsection.
        ``(3) Administrative actions.--Notwithstanding the 
    Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4701 et seq.) 
    and under regulations prescribed by the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau, all personnel actions or conditions of employment, 
    including adverse actions under title 5, pertaining to a person 
    appointed, employed, or administered by an adjutant general under 
    this subsection shall be accomplished by the adjutant general of 
    the jurisdiction concerned. For purposes of any administrative 
    complaint, grievance, claim, or action arising from, or relating 
    to, such a personnel action or condition of employment:
            ``(A) The adjutant general of the jurisdiction concerned 
        shall be considered the head of the agency and the National 
        Guard of the jurisdiction concerned shall be considered the 
        employing agency of the individual and the sole defendant or 
        respondent in any administrative action.
            ``(B) The National Guard of the jurisdiction concerned 
        shall defend any administrative complaint, grievance, claim, or 
        action, and shall promptly implement all aspects of any final 
        administrative order, judgment, or decision.
            ``(C) In any civil action or proceeding brought in any 
        court arising from an action under this section, the United 
        States shall be the sole defendant or respondent.
            ``(D) The Attorney General of the United States shall 
        defend the United States in actions arising under this section 
        described in subparagraph (C).
            ``(E) Any settlement, judgment, or costs arising from an 
        action described in subparagraph (A) or (C) shall be paid from 
        appropriated funds allocated to the National Guard of the 
        jurisdiction concerned.''.
    SEC. 933. REORGANIZATION AND REDESIGNATION OF OFFICE OF FAMILY 
      POLICY AND OFFICE OF COMMUNITY SUPPORT FOR MILITARY FAMILIES WITH 
      SPECIAL NEEDS.
    (a) Office of Family Policy.--
        (1) Redesignation as office of military family readiness 
    policy.--Section 1781(a) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``Office of Family Policy'' and inserting 
        ``Office of Military Family Readiness Policy''; and
            (B) by striking ``Director of Family Policy'' and inserting 
        ``Director of Military Family Readiness Policy''.
        (2) Inclusion of director on military family readiness 
    council.--Subsection (b)(1)(E) of section 1781a of such title is 
    amended by striking ``Office of Community Support for Military 
    Families with Special Needs'' and inserting ``Office of Military 
    Family Readiness Policy''.
        (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 131(b)(8)(G) of such title 
    is amended by striking ``Director of Family Policy'' and inserting 
    ``Director of Military Family Readiness Policy''.
        (4) Heading and clerical amendments.--
            (A) Section heading.--The heading of section 1781 of such 
        title is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1781. Office of Military Family Readiness Policy''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 88 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1781 and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1781. Office of Military Family Readiness Policy.''.

    (b) Office of Community Support for Military Families With Special 
Needs.--
        (1) Redesignation as office of special needs.--Subsection (a) 
    of section 1781c of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking ``Office of Community Support for Military Families with 
    Special Needs'' and inserting ``Office of Special Needs''.
        (2) Reorganization under office of military family readiness 
    policy.--Such subsection is further amended by striking ``Office of 
    the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness'' and 
    inserting ``Office of Military Family Readiness Policy''.
        (3) Repeal of requirement for head of office to be member of 
    senior executive service or general or flag officer.--Such section 
    is further amended by striking subsection (c).
        (4) Conforming amendments.--Such section is further amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsections (d) through (i) as 
        subsections (c) through (h), respectively;
            (B) by striking ``subsection (e)'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``subsection (d)'';
            (C) in subsection (c), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``subsection (f)'' in paragraph (2) and inserting ``subsection 
        (e)''; and
            (D) in subsection (g), as so redesignated--
                (i) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``subsection 
            (d)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)(3)''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking ``subsection 
            (d)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection (c)(4)''.
        (5) Heading and clerical amendments.--
            (A) Section heading.--The heading of such section is 
        amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1781c. Office of Special Needs''.
            (B) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the 
        beginning of chapter 88 of such title is amended by striking 
        the item relating to section 1781c and inserting the following 
        new item:

``1781c. Office of Special Needs.''.
    SEC. 934. REDESIGNATION OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE FOR 
      ACQUISITION AS ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE FOR 
      ACQUISITION, TECHNOLOGY, AND LOGISTICS.
    (a) Redesignation.--Section 8016(b)(4)(A) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for 
    Acquisition'' and inserting ``Assistant Secretary of the Air Force 
    for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics''; and
        (2) by inserting ``, technology, and logistics'' after 
    ``acquisition''.
    (b) References.--Any reference to the Assistant Secretary of the 
Air Force for Acquisition in any law, regulation, map, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed to be a 
reference to the Assistant Secretary of the Air Force for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics.

          Subtitle E--Strategies, Reports, and Related Matters

    SEC. 941. NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY.
    (a) National Defense Strategy.--Subsection (g) of section 113 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g)(1)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (E), in January 
every four years, and intermittently otherwise as may be appropriate, 
the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Secretaries of the 
military departments, the Chiefs of Staff of the armed forces, the 
commanders of the unified and specified combatant commands, and the 
heads of all Defense Agencies and Field Activities of the Department of 
Defense and other elements of the Department specified in paragraphs 
(1) through (10) of section 111(b) of this title, and to the 
congressional defense committees, a defense strategy. Each strategy 
shall be known as the `national defense strategy', and shall support 
the most recent national security strategy report of the President 
under section 108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3043).
    ``(B) Each national defense strategy shall including the following:
        ``(i) The priority missions of the Department of Defense, and 
    the assumed force planning scenarios and constructs.
        ``(ii) The assumed strategic environment, including the most 
    critical and enduring threats to the national security of the 
    United States and its allies posed by state or non-state actors, 
    and the strategies that the Department will employ to counter such 
    threats and provide for the national defense.
        ``(iii) A strategic framework prescribed by the Secretary that 
    guides how the Department will prioritize among the threats 
    described in clause (ii) and the missions specified pursuant to 
    clause (i), how the Department will allocate and mitigate the 
    resulting risks, and how the Department will make resource 
    investments.
        ``(iv) The roles and missions of the armed forces to carry out 
    the missions described in clause (i), and the assumed roles and 
    capabilities provided by other United States Government agencies 
    and by allies and international partners.
        ``(v) The force size and shape, force posture, defense 
    capabilities, force readiness, infrastructure, organization, 
    personnel, technological innovation, and other elements of the 
    defense program necessary to support such strategy.
        ``(vi) The major investments in defense capabilities, force 
    structure, force readiness, force posture, and technological 
    innovation that the Department will make over the following five-
    year period in accordance with the strategic framework described in 
    clause (iii).
    ``(C) The Secretary shall seek the military advice and assistance 
of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff in preparing each national 
defense strategy required by this subsection.
    ``(D) Each national defense strategy under this subsection shall be 
presented to the congressional defense committees in classified form 
with an unclassified summary.
    ``(E) In a year following an election for President, which election 
results in the appointment by the President of a new Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary shall present the national defense strategy 
required by this subsection as soon as possible after appointment by 
and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(F) In February of each year in which the Secretary does not 
submit a new defense strategy as required by paragraph (A), the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees an 
assessment of the current national defense strategy, including an 
assessment of the implementation of the strategy by the Department and 
an assessment whether the strategy requires revision as a result of 
changes in assumptions, policy, or other factors.
    ``(2) In implementing a national defense strategy under paragraph 
(1), the Secretary, with the advice and assistance of the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall provide annually to the Secretaries of 
the military departments, the Chiefs of Staff of the armed forces, the 
commanders of the unified and specified combatant commands, and the 
heads of all Defense Agencies and Field Activities of the Department 
and other elements of the Department specified in paragraphs (1) 
through (10) of section 111(b) of this title, written policy guidance 
for the preparation and review of the program recommendations and 
budget proposals of their respective components to guide the 
development of forces. Such guidance shall include--
        ``(A) the national security interests and objectives;
        ``(B) the priority military missions of the Department, 
    including the assumed force planning scenarios and constructs;
        ``(C) the force size and shape, force posture, defense 
    capabilities, force readiness, infrastructure, organization, 
    personnel, technological innovation, and other elements of the 
    defense program necessary to support the strategy;
        ``(D) the resource levels projected to be available for the 
    period of time for which such recommendations and proposals are to 
    be effective; and
        ``(E) a discussion of any changes in the defense strategy and 
    assumptions underpinning the strategy, as required by paragraph 
    (1).
    ``(3) In implementing the guidance under paragraph (2), the 
Secretary, with the approval of the President and after consultation 
with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall provide, every 
two years or more frequently as needed, to the Chairman written policy 
guidance for the preparation and review of contingency plans, including 
plans for providing support to civil authorities in an incident of 
national significance or a catastrophic incident, for homeland defense, 
and for military support to civil authorities. Such guidance shall 
include guidance on the employment of forces, including specific force 
levels and specific supporting resource levels projected to be 
available for the period of time for which such plans are to be 
effective.
    ``(4) Not later than February 15 in any calendar year in which any 
written guidance is required pursuant to paragraph (2) or (3), the 
Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
detailed classified briefing summarizing such guidance developed 
pursuant to such paragraphs.''.
    (b) Conforming Repeal.--
        (1) In general.--Section 118 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 2 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 118.
    SEC. 942. COMMISSION ON THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STRATEGY FOR THE 
      UNITED STATES.
    (a) Establishment.--There is hereby established a commission to be 
known as the ``Commission on the National Defense Strategy for the 
United States'' (in this section referred to as the ``Commission''). 
The purpose of the Commission is to examine and make recommendations 
with respect to the national defense strategy for the United States.
    (b) Composition.--
        (1) Membership.--The Commission shall be composed of 12 members 
    appointed as follows:
            (A) Three members appointed by the chair of the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
            (B) Three members appointed by the ranking minority member 
        of the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (C) Three members appointed by the chair of the Committee 
        on Armed Services of the Senate.
            (D) Three members appointed by the ranking minority member 
        of the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.
        (2) Chair; vice chair.--
            (A) Chair.--The chair of the Committee on Armed Services of 
        the House of Representative and the chair of the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the Senate shall jointly designate one member 
        of the Commission to serve as chair of the Commission.
            (B) Vice chair.--The ranking minority member of the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representative and 
        the ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed Services 
        of the Senate shall jointly designate one member of the 
        Commission to serve as vice chair of the Commission.
        (3) Period of appointment; vacancies.--Members shall be 
    appointed for the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the 
    Commission shall be filled in the same manner as the original 
    appointment.
    (c) Duties.--
        (1) Review.--The Commission shall review the current national 
    defense strategy of the United States, including the assumptions, 
    missions, force posture and structure, and strategic and military 
    risks associated with the strategy.
        (2) Assessment and recommendations.--The Commission shall 
    conduct a comprehensive assessment of the strategic environment, 
    the threats to the United States, the size and shape of the force, 
    the readiness of the force, the posture and capabilities of the 
    force, the allocation of resources, and strategic and military 
    risks in order to provide recommendations on the national defense 
    strategy for the United States.
    (d) Cooperation From Government.--
        (1) Cooperation.--In carrying out its duties, the Commission 
    shall receive the full and timely cooperation of the Secretary of 
    Defense in providing the Commission with analysis, briefings, and 
    other information necessary for the fulfillment of its 
    responsibilities.
        (2) Liaison.--The Secretary shall designate at least one 
    officer or employee of the Department of Defense to serve as a 
    liaison officer between the Department and the Commission.
    (e) Report.--
        (1) Final report.--Not later than December 1, 2017, the 
    Commission shall submit to the President, the Secretary of Defense, 
    the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, 
    and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate a report on the 
    Commission's findings, conclusions, and recommendations. The report 
    shall address, but not be limited to, each of the following:
            (A) The strategic environment, including threats to the 
        United States and the potential for conflicts arising from such 
        threats, security challenges, and the national security 
        interests of the United States.
            (B) The military missions for which the Department of 
        Defense should prepare and the force planning construct.
            (C) The roles and missions of the Armed Forces to carry out 
        those missions and the roles and capabilities provided by other 
        United States Government agencies and by allies and 
        international partners.
            (D) The force planning construct, size and shape, posture 
        and capabilities, readiness, infrastructure, organization, 
        personnel, and other elements of the defense program necessary 
        to support the strategy.
            (E) The resources necessary to support the strategy, 
        including budget recommendations.
            (F) The risks associated with the strategy, including the 
        relationships and tradeoffs between missions, risks, and 
        resources.
        (2) Interim briefing.--Not later than June 1, 2017, the 
    Commission shall provide to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives, and the Committee on Armed Services of 
    the Senate a briefing on the status of its review and assessment, 
    and include a discussion of any interim recommendations.
        (3) Form.--The report submitted to Congress under paragraph (1) 
    shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
    classified annex.
    (f) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by to 
this Act for the Department of Defense, $5,000,000 is available to fund 
the activities of the Commission.
    (g) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate 6 months after the 
date on which it submits the report required by subsection (e).
    SEC. 943. REFORM OF THE NATIONAL MILITARY STRATEGY.
    (a) In General.--Paragraph (1) of section 153(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) National military strategy.--(A) The Chairman shall 
    determine each even-numbered year whether to prepare a new National 
    Military Strategy in accordance with this paragraph or to update a 
    strategy previously prepared in accordance with this paragraph. The 
    Chairman shall provide such National Military Strategy or update to 
    the Secretary of Defense in time for transmittal to Congress 
    pursuant to paragraph (3), including in time for inclusion in the 
    report of the Secretary of Defense, if any, under paragraph (4).
        ``(B) Each National Military Strategy (or update) under this 
    paragraph shall be based on a comprehensive review conducted by the 
    Chairman in conjunction with the other members of the Joint Chiefs 
    of Staff and the commanders of the unified and specified combatant 
    commands. Each update shall address only those parts of the most 
    recent National Military Strategy for which the Chairman 
    determines, on the basis of the review, that a modification is 
    needed.
        ``(C) Each National Military Strategy (or update) submitted 
    under this paragraph shall describe how the military will support 
    the objectives of the United States as articulated in--
            ``(i) the most recent National Security Strategy prescribed 
        by the President pursuant to section 108 of the National 
        Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3043);
            ``(ii) the most recent annual report of the Secretary of 
        Defense submitted to the President and Congress pursuant to 
        section 113 of this title;
            ``(iii) the most recent national defense strategy presented 
        by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 113 of this 
        title;
            ``(iv) the most recent policy guidance provided by the 
        Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 113(g) of this title; 
        and
            ``(v) any other national security or defense strategic 
        guidance issued by the President or the Secretary of Defense.
        ``(D) At a minimum, each National Military Strategy (or update) 
    submitted under this paragraph shall--
            ``(i) assess the strategic environment, threats, 
        opportunities, and challenges that affect the national security 
        of the United States;
            ``(ii) assess military ends, ways, and means to support the 
        objectives referred to in subparagraph (C);
            ``(iii) provide the framework for the assessment by the 
        Chairman of military strategic and operational risks, and for 
        the development of risk mitigation options;
            ``(iv) develop military options to address threats and 
        opportunities;
            ``(v) assess joint force capabilities, capacities, and 
        resources; and
            ``(vi) establish military guidance for the development of 
        the joint force and the total force building on guidance by the 
        President and the Secretary of Defense as referred to in 
        subparagraph (C).''.
    (b) Modification to Risk Assessment.--Paragraph (2) of such section 
is amended--
        (1) in the third sentence of subparagraph (A), by striking ``of 
    the report'' and inserting ``in the report''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by inserting ``(or update)'' after ``National Military 
        Strategy'' each place it appears;
            (B) in clause (ii), by striking ``strategic risks to United 
        States interests'' and all that follows and inserting 
        ``military strategic and operational risks to United States 
        interests and the military strategic and operational risks in 
        executing the National Military Strategy (or update).'';
            (C) in clause (iii), by striking ``distinguishing between 
        the concepts of probability and consequences'';
            (D) in clause (iv)(II), by striking ``most''; and
            (E) in clause (v), by striking ``or support of--'' and all 
        the follows and inserting ``of external support, as 
        appropriate.''.
    (c) Form.--Paragraph (3) of such section is amended by adding at 
the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(C) The National Military Strategy (or update) and Risk 
    Assessment submitted under this subsection shall be classified in 
    form, but shall include an unclassified summary.''.
    SEC. 944. FORM OF ANNUAL NATIONAL SECURITY STRATEGY REPORT.
    Section 108(c) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3043(c)) is amended by striking ``in both a classified form and an 
unclassified form'' and inserting ``to Congress in classified form, but 
may include an unclassified summary''.
    SEC. 945. MODIFICATION TO INDEPENDENT STUDY OF NATIONAL SECURITY 
      STRATEGY FORMULATION PROCESS.
    Section 1064(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 989) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (D), by inserting ``, including Congress,'' 
    after ``Federal Government''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) The capabilities and limitations of the Department of 
        Defense workforce responsible for conducting strategic 
        planning, including recommendations for improving the workforce 
        through training, education, and career management.''.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

    SEC. 951. ENHANCED SECURITY PROGRAMS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      PERSONNEL AND INNOVATION INITIATIVES.
    (a) Enhancement of Security Programs Generally.--
        (1) Personnel background and security plan required.--The 
    Secretary of Defense shall develop an implementation plan for the 
    Defense Security Service to conduct, after October 1, 2017, 
    background investigations for personnel of the Department of 
    Defense whose investigations are adjudicated by the Consolidated 
    Adjudication Facility of the Department. The Secretary shall submit 
    the implementation plan to the congressional defense committees by 
    not later than August 1, 2017.
        (2) Plan for potential transfer of investigative personnel to 
    department of defense.--Not later than October 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
    shall develop a plan to transfer Government investigative personnel 
    and contracted resources to the Department in proportion to the 
    background and security investigative workload that would be 
    assumed by the Department if the plan required by paragraph (1) 
    were implemented.
        (3) Report.--Not later than August 1, 2017, the Secretary shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
    number of full-time equivalent employees of the management 
    headquarters of the Department that would be required by the 
    Defense Security Service to carry out the plan developed under 
    paragraph (1).
        (4) Collection, storage, and retention of information by 
    insider threat programs.--In order to enable detection and 
    mitigation of potential insider threats, the Secretary shall ensure 
    that insider threat programs of the Department collect, store, and 
    retain information from the following:
            (A) Personnel security.
            (B) Physical security.
            (C) Information security.
            (D) Law enforcement.
            (E) Counterintelligence.
            (F) User activity monitoring.
            (G) Information assurance.
            (H) Such other data sources as the Secretary considers 
        necessary and appropriate.
    (b) Elements of System.--
        (1) In general.--In developing a system for the performance of 
    background investigations for personnel in carrying out subsection 
    (a), the Secretary shall--
            (A) conduct a review of security clearance business 
        processes and, to the extent practicable, modify such processes 
        to maximize compatibility with the security clearance 
        information technology architecture to minimize the need for 
        customization of the system;
            (B) conduct business process mapping of the business 
        processes described in subparagraph (A);
            (C) use spiral development and incremental acquisition 
        practices to rapidly deploy the system, including through the 
        use of prototyping and open architecture principles;
            (D) establish a process to identify and limit interfaces 
        with legacy systems and to limit customization of any 
        commercial information technology tools used;
            (E) establish automated processes for measuring the 
        performance goals of the system;
            (F) incorporate capabilities for the continuous monitoring 
        of network security and the mitigation of insider threats to 
        the system;
            (G) institute a program to collect and maintain data and 
        metrics on the background investigation process; and
            (H) establish a council (to be known as the ``Department of 
        Defense Background Investigations Rate Council'') to advise and 
        advocate for rate efficiencies for background clearance 
        investigation rates, and to negotiate rates for background 
        investigation services provided to outsides entities and 
        agencies when requested.
        (2) Completion date.--The Secretary shall complete the 
    development and implementation of the system described in paragraph 
    (1) by not later than September 30, 2019.
    (c) Establishment of Enhanced Security Program to Support 
Department of Defense Innovation Initiative.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a personnel 
    security program, and take such other actions as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate, to support the Innovation Initiative of the 
    Department to better leverage commercial technology.
        (2) Policies and procedures.--In establishing the program 
    required by paragraph (1), the Secretary shall develop policies and 
    procedures to rapidly and inexpensively investigate and adjudicate 
    security clearances for personnel from commercial companies with 
    innovative technologies and solutions to enable such companies to 
    receive relevant threat reporting and to propose solutions for a 
    broader set of Department requirements.
        (3) Access to classified information.--The Secretary shall 
    ensure that access to classified information under the program 
    required by paragraph (1) is not contingent on a company already 
    being under contract with the Department.
        (4) Award of security clearances.--The Secretary may award 
    secret clearances under the program required by paragraph (1) for 
    limited purposes and periods relating to the acquisition or 
    modification of capabilities and services.
    (d) Updated Guidance and Review of Policies.--
        (1) Review of applicable laws.--The Secretary shall review 
    laws, regulations, and executive orders relating to the maintenance 
    of personnel security clearance information by the Federal 
    Government, including the investigation timeline metrics 
    established in the Intelligence Reform and Prevention of Terrorism 
    Act of 2004 (Public Law 108-458). The review should also identify 
    recommendations to eliminate duplicative or outdated authorities in 
    current executive orders, regulations and guidance. Not later than 
    90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary 
    shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
    the House of Representatives a briefing that includes--
            (A) the results of the review; and
            (B) recommendations, if any, for consolidating and 
        clarifying laws, regulations, and executive orders relating to 
        the maintenance of personnel security clearance information by 
        the Federal Government.
        (2) Reciprocity directive.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall coordinate 
    with the Security Executive Agent, in consultation with the 
    Suitability Executive Agent, to issue an updated reciprocity 
    directive that accounts for security policy changes associated with 
    new position designation regulations under section 1400 of title 5, 
    Code of Federal Regulations, new continuous evaluation policies, 
    and new Federal investigative standards.
        (3) Implementation directives.--The Secretary, working with the 
    Security Executive Agent and the Suitability Executive Agent, shall 
    jointly develop and issue directives on--
            (A) completing the implementation of the National Security 
        Sensitive Position designations required by section 1400 of 
        title 5, Code of Federal Regulations; and
            (B) aligning to the maximum practical extent the 
        investigative and adjudicative standards and criteria for 
        positions requiring access to classified information and 
        national security sensitive positions not requiring access to 
        classified information to ensure effective and efficient 
        reciprocity and consistent designation of like-positions across 
        the Federal Government.
    (e) Waiver of Certain Deadlines.--For each of fiscal years 2017 
through 2019, the Secretary may waive any background investigation 
timeline specified in the Intelligence Reform and Prevention of 
Terrorism Act of 2004 if the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a written notification on the waiver not later 
than 30 days before the beginning of the fiscal year concerned.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 3001(a)(8) of the Intelligence 
    Reform and Prevention of Terrorism Act of 2004 (50 U.S.C. 
    3341(a)(8)).
        (2) The term ``business process mapping'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2222(i) of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) The term ``insider threat'' means, with respect to the 
    Department, a threat presented by a person who--
            (A) has, or once had, authorized access to information, a 
        facility, a network, a person, or a resource of the Department; 
        and
            (B) wittingly, or unwittingly, commits--
                (i) an act in contravention of law or policy that 
            resulted in, or might result in, harm through the loss or 
            degradation of government or company information, 
            resources, or capabilities; or
                (ii) a destructive act, which may include physical harm 
            to another in the workplace.
    SEC. 952. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE 
      RELATING TO PROTECTION OF THE PENTAGON RESERVATION AND OTHER 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FACILITIES IN THE NATIONAL CAPITAL REGION.
    (a) Law Enforcement Authority.--Subsection (b) of section 2674 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (5); and
        (2) by striking the matter in such subsection preceding such 
    paragraph and inserting the following:
    ``(b)(1) The Secretary shall protect the buildings, grounds, and 
property located in the National Capital Region that are occupied by, 
or under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of, the Department of 
Defense, and the persons on that property.
    ``(2) The Secretary may designate military or civilian personnel to 
perform law enforcement functions and military, civilian, or contract 
personnel to perform security functions for such buildings, grounds, 
property, and persons, including, with regard to civilian personnel 
designated under this section, duty in areas outside the property 
referred to in paragraph (1) to the extent necessary to protect that 
property and persons on that property. Subject to the authorization of 
the Secretary, any such military or civilian personnel so designated 
may exercise the authorities listed in paragraphs (1) through (5) of 
section 2672(c) of this title.
    ``(3) The powers granted under paragraph (2) to military and 
civilian personnel designated under that paragraph shall be exercised 
in accordance with guidelines prescribed by the Secretary and approved 
by the Attorney General.
    ``(4) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to--
        ``(A) preclude or limit the authority of any Defense Criminal 
    Investigative Organization or any other Federal law enforcement 
    agency;
        ``(B) restrict the authority of the Secretary of Homeland 
    Security under the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et 
    seq.) or the authority of the Administrator of General Services, 
    including the authority to promulgate regulations affecting 
    property under the custody and control of that Secretary or the 
    Administrator, respectively;
        ``(C) expand or limit section 21 of the Internal Security Act 
    of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 797);
        ``(D) affect chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform Code of 
    Military Justice);
        ``(E) restrict any other authority of the Secretary of Defense 
    or the Secretary of a military department; or
        ``(F) restrict the authority of the Director of the National 
    Security Agency under section 11 of the National Security Agency 
    Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 3609).''.
    (b) Rates of Basic Pay for Civilian Law Enforcement Personnel.--
Paragraph (5) of such subsection, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1) 
of this section, is amended by inserting ``, whichever is greater'' 
before the period at the end.
    (c) Codification of Authority To Provide Physical Protection and 
Personal Security Within United States to Certain Senior Leaders in DoD 
and Other Specified Persons.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 41 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 713 a new section 714 consisting 
    of--
            (A) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 714. Senior leaders of the Department of Defense and other 
   specified persons: authority to provide protection within the United 
   States''; and
            (B) a text consisting of the text of subsections (a) 
        through (d) of section 1074 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (10 U.S.C. 113 note).
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 41 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``714. Senior leaders of the Department of Defense and other specified 
          persons: authority to provide protection within the United 
          States.''.

        (3) Repeal of codified provision.--Section 1074 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 is repealed.
        (4) Conforming and stylistic amendments due to codification.--
    Section 714 of title 10, United States Code, as added by paragraph 
    (1), is amended--
            (A) in subsections (a), (b)(1), and (d)(1), by striking 
        ``Armed Forces'' and inserting ``armed forces'';
            (B) in subsection (c)--
                (i) by striking ``section:'' and all that follows 
            through ``Forces' and'' and inserting ``section, the terms 
            `qualified members of the armed forces' and''; and
                (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (E) as 
            paragraphs (1) through (5), respectively, and realigning 
            the left margin of such paragraphs, as so redesignated, two 
            ems to the left; and
            (C) in subsection (d)(2), by striking ``, United States 
        Code''.
        (5) Amendments for consistency with title 10 usage as to 
    service chiefs.--Such section is further amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)--
                (i) in paragraph (6), by striking ``Chiefs of the 
            Services'' and inserting ``Members of the Joint Chiefs of 
            Staff in addition to the Chairman and Vice Chairman'';
                (ii) by striking paragraph (7); and
                (iii) by redesignating paragraph (8) as paragraph (7); 
            and
            (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``through (8)'' and 
        inserting ``through (7)''.
        (6)  Amendments for consistency with title 10 usage as to 
    ``military member''.--Subsection (b)(2)(A) of such section is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking ``, military member,''; and
            (B) by inserting after ``of the Department of Defense'' the 
        following: ``or member of the armed forces''.
    SEC. 953. MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENTS FOR ACCOUNTING FOR MEMBERS 
      OF THE ARMED FORCES AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES 
      LISTED AS MISSING.
    (a) Limitation of Defense POW/MIA Accounting Agency to Missing 
Persons From Past Conflicts.--Section 1501(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by inserting ``from past conflicts'' 
    after ``matters relating to missing persons'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (A);
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), (D), (E), and 
        (F) as subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E), respectively; 
        and
            (C) by inserting ``from past conflicts'' after ``missing 
        persons'' each place it appears;
        (3) in paragraph (4)--
            (A) by striking ``for personal recovery (including search, 
        rescue, escape, and evasion) and''; and
            (B) by inserting ``from past conflicts'' after ``missing 
        persons''; and
        (4) by striking paragraph (5).
    (b) Action Upon Discovery or Receipt of Information.--Section 
1505(c) of such title is amended by striking ``designated Agency 
Director'' in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) and inserting ``Secretary of 
Defense''.
    (c)  Definition of ``Accounted for''.--Section 1513(3)(B) of such 
title is amended by inserting ``to the extent practicable'' after ``are 
recovered''.
    SEC. 954. MODIFICATIONS TO CORROSION REPORT.
    (a) Modifications to Report to Congress.--Section 2228(e)(1) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
    after ``2009'' the following: ``and ending with the budget for 
    fiscal year 2022'';
        (2) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
        ``(B) The estimated composite return on investment achieved by 
    implementing the strategy, and documented in the assessments by the 
    Department of Defense of completed corrosion projects and 
    activities.'';
        (3) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as follows:
        ``(D) If the full amount of funding requirements is not 
    requested in the budget, the reasons for not including the full 
    amount and a description of the impact on readiness, logistics, and 
    safety of not fully funding required corrosion prevention and 
    mitigation activities.''; and
        (4) in subparagraph (F), by striking ``pilot''.
    (b) Report to Director of Corrosion Policy and Oversight.--Section 
2228(e)(2) of such title is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(A)'' before ``Each report'';
        (2) by striking ``a copy of'' and all that follows through the 
    period and inserting ``a summary of the most recent report required 
    by subparagraph (B).''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) Not later than December 31 of each year, through December 31, 
2020, the corrosion control and prevention executive of a military 
department shall submit to the Director of Corrosion Policy and 
Oversight a report containing recommendations pertaining to the 
corrosion control and prevention program of the military department. 
Such report shall include recommendations for the funding levels 
necessary for the executive to carry out the duties of the executive 
under this section. The report required under this subparagraph shall--
        ``(i) provide a summary of key accomplishments, goals, and 
    objectives of the corrosion control and prevention program of the 
    military department; and
        ``(ii) include the performance measures used to ensure that the 
    corrosion control and prevention program achieved the goals and 
    objectives described in clause (i).''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 903(b) of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2228 
note) is amended by striking paragraph (5).

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Report on auditable financial statements.
Sec. 1003. Increased use of commercial data integration and analysis 
          products for the purpose of preparing financial statement 
          audits.
Sec. 1004. Sense of Congress on sequestration.
Sec. 1005. Requirement to transfer funds from Department of Defense 
          Acquisition Workforce Development Fund to the Treasury.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

Sec. 1011. Codification and modification of authority to provide support 
          for counterdrug activities and activities to counter 
          transnational organized crime of civilian law enforcement 
          agencies.
Sec. 1012. Secretary of Defense review of curricula and program 
          structures of National Guard counterdrug schools.
Sec. 1013. Extension of authority to support unified counterdrug and 
          counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1014. Enhancement of information sharing and coordination of 
          military training between Department of Homeland Security and 
          Department of Defense.

                 Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Definition of short-term work with respect to overhaul, 
          repair, or maintenance of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. Warranty requirements for shipbuilding contracts.
Sec. 1023. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.
Sec. 1024. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
          Ticonderoga-class cruisers or dock landing ships.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Frequency of counterterrorism operations briefings.
Sec. 1032. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
          individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cub, to the United States.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities 
          in the United States to house detainees transferred from 
          United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release to 
          certain countries of individuals detained at United States 
          Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1035. Prohibition on use of funds for realignment of forces at or 
          closure of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1036. Congressional notification requirements for sensitive 
          military operations.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1041. Expanded authority for transportation by the Department of 
          Defense of non-Department of Defense personnel and cargo.
Sec. 1042. Reduction in minimum number of Navy carrier air wings and 
          carrier air wing headquarters required to be maintained.
Sec. 1043. Modification to support for non-Federal development and 
          testing of material for chemical agent defense.
Sec. 1044. Protection of certain Federal spectrum operations.
Sec. 1045. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of legacy maritime 
          mine countermeasures platforms.
Sec. 1046. Extension of authority of Secretary of Transportation to 
          issue non-premium aviation insurance.
Sec. 1047. Evaluation of Navy alternate combination cover and unisex 
          combination cover.
Sec. 1048. Independent evaluation of Department of Defense excess 
          property program.
Sec. 1049. Waiver of certain polygraph examination requirements.
Sec. 1050. Use of Transportation Worker Identification Credential to 
          gain access at Department of Defense installations.
Sec. 1051. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of 
          certain landmines and briefing on development of replacement 
          anti-personnel landmine munitions.
Sec. 1052. Transition of Air Force to operation of remotely piloted 
          aircraft by enlisted personnel.
Sec. 1053. Prohibition on divestment of Marine Corps Search and Rescue 
          Units.
Sec. 1054. Support for the Associate Director of the Central 
          Intelligence Agency for Military Affairs.
Sec. 1055. Notification on the provision of defense sensitive support.
Sec. 1056. Prohibition on enforcement of military commission rulings 
          preventing members of the Armed Forces from carrying out 
          otherwise lawful duties based on member sex.

                     Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1061. Temporary continuation of certain Department of Defense 
          reporting requirements.
Sec. 1062. Reports on programs managed under alternative compensatory 
          control measures in the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1063. Matters for inclusion in report on designation of countries 
          for which rewards may be paid under Department of Defense 
          rewards program.
Sec. 1064. Annual reports on unfunded priorities of the Armed Forces and 
          the combatant commands and annual report on combatant command 
          requirements.
Sec. 1065. Management and reviews of electromagnetic spectrum.
Sec. 1066. Requirement for notice and reporting to Committees on Armed 
          Services on certain expenditures of funds by Defense 
          Intelligence Agency.
Sec. 1067. Congressional notification of biological select agent and 
          toxin theft, loss, or release involving the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1068. Report on service-provided support and enabling capabilities 
          to United States special operations forces.
Sec. 1069. Report on citizen security responsibilities in the Northern 
          Triangle of Central America.
Sec. 1070. Report on counterproliferation activities and programs.
Sec. 1071. Report on testing and integration of minehunting sonar 
          systems to improve Littoral Combat Ship minehunting 
          capabilities.
Sec. 1072. Quarterly reports on parachute jumps conducted at Fort Bragg 
          and Pope Army Airfield and Air Force support for such jumps.
Sec. 1073. Study on military helicopter noise.
Sec. 1074. Independent review of United States military strategy and 
          force posture in the United States Pacific Command area of 
          responsibility.
Sec. 1075. Assessment of the joint ground forces of the Armed Forces.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1082. Increase in maximum amount available for equipment, services, 
          and supplies provided for humanitarian demining assistance.
Sec. 1083. Liquidation of unpaid credits accrued as a result of 
          transactions under a cross-servicing agreement.
Sec. 1084. Modification of requirements relating to management of 
          military technicians.
Sec. 1085. Streamlining of the National Security Council.
Sec. 1086. National biodefense strategy.
Sec. 1087. Global Cultural Knowledge Network.
Sec. 1088. Sense of Congress regarding Connecticut's Submarine Century.
Sec. 1089. Sense of Congress regarding the reporting of the MV-22 mishap 
          in Marana, Arizona, on April 8, 2000.
Sec. 1090. Cost of Wars.
Sec. 1091. Reconnaissance Strike Group matters.
Sec. 1092. Border security metrics.
Sec. 1093. Program to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Tomb of 
          the Unknown Soldier.
Sec. 1094. Sense of Congress regarding the OCONUS basing of the KC-46A 
          aircraft.
Sec. 1095. Designation of a Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Port.
Sec. 1096. Recovery of excess rifles, ammunition, and parts granted to 
          foreign countries and transfer to certain persons.

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2017 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred 
    shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
    authorization to which transferred.
        (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total 
    amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the 
    authority of this section may not exceed $4,500,000,000.
        (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
    authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
    authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
    dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
        (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that have a 
    higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; 
    and
        (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that has 
    been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
SEC. 1002. REPORT ON AUDITABLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report ranking all military departments and Defense 
Agencies in order of how advanced they are in achieving auditable 
financial statements as required by law. The report should not include 
information otherwise available in other reports to Congress.
SEC. 1003. INCREASED USE OF COMMERCIAL DATA INTEGRATION AND ANALYSIS 
PRODUCTS FOR THE PURPOSE OF PREPARING FINANCIAL STATEMENT AUDITS.
    (a) Deployment of Data Analytics Capabilities.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall use competitive procedures under chapter 137 of title 10, 
United States Code, to procure or develop, as soon as practicable, 
technologies or services, including those based on commercially 
available information technologies and services to improve data 
collection and analyses to support preparation of auditable financial 
statements for the Department of Defense.
    (b) Use of Funding and Resources.--The Secretary of Defense may use 
science and technology funding, prototypes, and test and evaluation 
resources as appropriate in support of this deployment.
    (c) Report on Performance.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
with the Chief Financial Officer and the Chief Management Officer of 
the Department of Defense, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the capabilities procured pursuant to subsection 
(a), including the results of using such capabilities in connection 
with auditing a financial statement of the Department of Defense.
SEC. 1004. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SEQUESTRATION.
    It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the fiscal challenges of the Federal Government are a top 
    priority for Congress, and sequestration--non-strategic, across-
    the-board budget cuts--remains an unreasonable and inadequate 
    budgeting tool to address the deficits and debt of the Federal 
    Government;
        (2) budget caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 
    (Public Law 112-25) impose unacceptable limitations on the budget 
    and increase risk to the national security of the United States; 
    and
        (3) the budget caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 
    must be modified or eliminated through a bipartisan legislative 
    agreement.
SEC. 1005. REQUIREMENT TO TRANSFER FUNDS FROM DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
ACQUISITION WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT FUND TO THE TREASURY.
    (a) Transfer Required.--During fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of 
Defense shall transfer, from amounts available in the Department of 
Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund from amounts credited to 
the Fund pursuant to section 1705(d)(2) of title 10, United States 
Code, $475,000,000 to the Secretary of the Treasury for deposit in the 
general fund of the Treasury.
    (b) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to any other transfer authority contained in 
this Act.

                   Subtitle B--Counterdrug Activities

SEC. 1011. CODIFICATION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
SUPPORT FOR COUNTERDRUG ACTIVITIES AND ACTIVITIES TO COUNTER 
TRANSNATIONAL ORGANIZED CRIME OF CIVILIAN LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES.
    (a) Codification and Modification.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 18 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 384. Support for counterdrug activities and activities to 
   counter transnational organized crime
    ``(a) Support to Other Agencies.--The Secretary of Defense may 
provide support for the counterdrug activities or activities to counter 
transnational organized crime of any other department or agency of the 
Federal Government or of any State, local, tribal, or foreign law 
enforcement agency for any of the purposes set forth in subsection (b) 
or (c), as applicable, if--
        ``(1) in the case of support described in subsection (b), such 
    support is requested--
            ``(A) by the official who has responsibility for the 
        counterdrug activities or activities to counter transnational 
        organized crime of the department or agency of the Federal 
        Government, in the case of support for other departments or 
        agencies of the Federal Government; or
            ``(B) by the appropriate official of a State, local, or 
        tribal government, in the case of support for State, local, or 
        tribal law enforcement agencies; or
        ``(2) in the case of support described in subsection (c), such 
    support is requested by an appropriate official of a department or 
    agency of the Federal Government, in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State, that has counterdrug responsibilities or 
    responsibilities for countering transnational organized crime.
    ``(b) Types of Support for Agencies of United States.--The purposes 
for which the Secretary may provide support under subsection (a) for 
other departments or agencies of the Federal Government or a State, 
local, or tribal law enforcement agencies, are the following:
        ``(1) The maintenance and repair of equipment that has been 
    made available to any department or agency of the Federal 
    Government or to any State, local, or tribal government by the 
    Department of Defense for the purposes of--
            ``(A) preserving the potential future utility of such 
        equipment for the Department of Defense; and
            ``(B) upgrading such equipment to ensure compatibility of 
        that equipment with other equipment used by the Department.
        ``(2) The maintenance, repair, or upgrading of equipment 
    (including computer software), other than equipment referred to in 
    paragraph (1) for the purpose of--
            ``(A) ensuring that the equipment being maintained or 
        repaired is compatible with equipment used by the Department of 
        Defense; and
            ``(B) upgrading such equipment to ensure the compatibility 
        of that equipment with equipment used by the Department.
        ``(3) The transportation of personnel of the United States and 
    foreign countries (including per diem expenses associated with such 
    transportation), and the transportation of supplies and equipment, 
    for the purpose of facilitating counterdrug activities or 
    activities to counter transnational organized crime within or 
    outside the United States.
        ``(4) The establishment (including an unspecified minor 
    military construction project) and operation of bases of operations 
    or training facilities for the purpose of facilitating counterdrug 
    activities or activities to counter transnational organized crime 
    of the Department of Defense or any Federal, State, local, or 
    tribal law enforcement agency within or outside the United States.
        ``(5) Counterdrug or counter-transnational organized crime 
    related training of law enforcement personnel of the Federal 
    Government, of State, local, and tribal governments, including 
    associated support expenses for trainees and the provision of 
    materials necessary to carry out such training.
        ``(6) The detection, monitoring, and communication of the 
    movement of--
            ``(A) air and sea traffic within 25 miles of and outside 
        the geographic boundaries of the United States; and
            ``(B) surface traffic outside the geographic boundary of 
        the United States and within the United States not to exceed 25 
        miles of the boundary if the initial detection occurred outside 
        of the boundary.
        ``(7) Construction of roads and fences and installation of 
    lighting to block drug smuggling corridors across international 
    boundaries of the United States.
        ``(8) Establishment of command, control, communications, and 
    computer networks for improved integration of law enforcement, 
    active military, and National Guard activities.
        ``(9) The provision of linguist and intelligence analysis 
    services.
        ``(10) Aerial and ground reconnaissance.
    ``(c) Types of Support for Foreign Law Enforcement Agencies.--
        ``(1) Purposes.--The purposes for which the Secretary may 
    provide support under subsection (a) for foreign law enforcement 
    agencies are the following:
            ``(A) The transportation of personnel of the United States 
        and foreign countries (including per diem expenses associated 
        with such transportation), and the transportation of supplies 
        and equipment, for the purpose of facilitating counterdrug 
        activities or activities to counter transnational organized 
        crime within or outside the United States.
            ``(B) The establishment (including small scale 
        construction) and operation of bases of operations or training 
        facilities for the purpose of facilitating counterdrug 
        activities or activities to counter transnational organized 
        crime of a foreign law enforcement agency outside the United 
        States.
            ``(C) The detection, monitoring, and communication of the 
        movement of--
                ``(i) air and sea traffic within 25 miles of and 
            outside the geographic boundaries of the United States; and
                ``(ii) surface traffic outside the geographic 
            boundaries of the United States.
            ``(D) Establishment of command, control, communications, 
        and computer networks for improved integration of United States 
        Federal and foreign law enforcement entities and United States 
        Armed Forces.
            ``(E) The provision of linguist and intelligence analysis 
        services.
            ``(F) Aerial and ground reconnaissance.
        ``(2) Coordination with secretary of state.--In providing 
    support for a purpose described in this subsection, the Secretary 
    shall coordinate with the Secretary of State.
    ``(d) Contract Authority.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
Secretary may acquire services or equipment by contract for support 
provided under that subsection if the Department of Defense would 
normally acquire such services or equipment by contract for the purpose 
of conducting a similar activity for the Department.
    ``(e) Limited Waiver of Prohibition.--Notwithstanding section 376 
of this title, the Secretary may provide support pursuant to subsection 
(a) in any case in which the Secretary determines that the provision of 
such support would adversely affect the military preparedness of the 
United States in the short term if the Secretary determines that the 
importance of providing such support outweighs such short-term adverse 
effect.
    ``(f) Conduct of Training or Operation To Aid Civilian Agencies.--
In providing support pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary may plan 
and execute otherwise valid military training or operations (including 
training exercises undertaken pursuant to section 1206(a) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 
(Public Law 101-189; 103 Stat. 1564) for the purpose of aiding civilian 
law enforcement agencies.
    ``(g) Relationship to Other Support Authorities.--
        ``(1) Additional authority.--The authority provided in this 
    section for the support of counterdrug activities or activities to 
    counter transnational organized crime by the Department of Defense 
    is in addition to, and except as provided in paragraph (2), not 
    subject to the other requirements of this chapter.
        ``(2) Exception.--Support under this section shall be subject 
    to the provisions of section 375 and, except as provided in 
    subsection (e), section 376 of this title.
    ``(h) Congressional Notification.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not less than 15 days before providing 
    support for an activity under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
    written and electronic notice of the following:
            ``(A) In the case of support for a purpose described in 
        subsection (c)--
                ``(i) the country the capacity of which will be built 
            or enabled through the provision of such support;
                ``(ii) the budget, implementation timeline with 
            milestones, anticipated delivery schedule for support, and 
            completion date for the purpose or project for which 
            support is provided;
                ``(iii) the source and planned expenditure of funds 
            provided for the project or purpose;
                ``(iv) a description of the arrangements, if any, for 
            the sustainment of the project or purpose and the source of 
            funds to support sustainment of the capabilities and 
            performance outcomes achieved using such support, if 
            applicable;
                ``(v) a description of the objectives for the project 
            or purpose and evaluation framework to be used to develop 
            capability and performance metrics associated with 
            operational outcomes for the recipient;
                ``(vi) information, including the amount, type, and 
            purpose, about the support provided the country during the 
            three fiscal years preceding the fiscal year for which the 
            support covered by the notice is provided under this 
            section under--

                    ``(I) this section;
                    ``(II) section 23 of the Arms Export Control Act 
                (22 U.S.C. 2763);
                    ``(III) peacekeeping operations;
                    ``(IV) the International Narcotics Control and Law 
                Enforcement program under section 481 of the Foreign 
                Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2291);
                    ``(V) Nonproliferation, Anti-Terrorism, Demining, 
                and Related Programs;
                    ``(VI) counterdrug activities authorized by section 
                1004 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
                Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 374 note) and section 1033 
                of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85); or
                    ``(VII) any other significant program, account, or 
                activity for the provision of security assistance that 
                the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
                consider appropriate;

                ``(vii) an evaluation of the capacity of the recipient 
            country to absorb the support provided; and
                ``(viii) an evaluation of the manner in which the 
            project or purpose for which the support is provided fits 
            into the theater security cooperation strategy of the 
            applicable geographic combatant command.
            ``(B) In the case of support for a purpose described in 
        subsection (b) or (c), a description of any small scale 
        construction project for which support is provided.
        ``(2) Coordination with secretary of state.--In providing 
    notice under this subsection for a purpose described in subsection 
    (c), the Secretary of Defense shall coordinate with the Secretary 
    of State.
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
            ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate.
        ``(2) The term `Indian tribe' means a Federally recognized 
    Indian tribe.
        ``(3) The term `small scale construction' means construction at 
    a cost not to exceed $750,000 for any project.
        ``(4) The term `tribal government' means the governing body of 
    an Indian tribe, the status of whose land is `Indian country' as 
    defined in section 1151 of title 18 or held in trust by the United 
    States for the benefit of the Indian tribe.
        ``(5) The term `tribal law enforcement agency' means the law 
    enforcement agency of a tribal government.
        ``(6) The term `transnational organized crime' means self-
    perpetuating associations of individuals who operate 
    transnationally for the purpose of obtaining power, influence, 
    monetary, or commercial gains, wholly or in part by illegal means, 
    while protecting their activities through a pattern of corruption 
    or violence or through a transnational organization structure and 
    the exploitation of transnational commerce or communication 
    mechanisms.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 18 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``384. Support for counterdrug activities and activities to counter 
          transnational organized crime.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 1004 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (10 U.S.C. 374 note) is 
repealed.
SEC. 1012. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE REVIEW OF CURRICULA AND PROGRAM 
STRUCTURES OF NATIONAL GUARD COUNTERDRUG SCHOOLS.
    (a) In General.--Section 901 of the Office of National Drug Control 
Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-469; 32 U.S.C. 112 
note) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e) through (g) as subsections 
    (f) through (h), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e) Curriculum Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
curriculum and program structure of each school established under this 
section.''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Subsection (d)(1) of such section is 
amended by striking ``section 112(b) of that title 32'' and inserting 
``section 112(b) of title 32''.
SEC. 1013. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT UNIFIED COUNTERDRUG AND 
COUNTERTERRORISM CAMPAIGN IN COLOMBIA.
    Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 2042), as most 
recently amended by section 1011 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 962), is further 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
    ``2019''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
    ``2019''.
SEC. 1014. ENHANCEMENT OF INFORMATION SHARING AND COORDINATION OF 
MILITARY TRAINING BETWEEN DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY AND 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure 
that the information needs of the Department of Homeland Security 
relating to civilian law enforcement activities in proximity to the 
international borders of the United States are identified and 
communicated to the Secretary of Defense for the purposes of the 
planning and executing of military training by the Department of 
Defense.
    (b) Formal Mechanism of Notification.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
    coordination with the Secretary of Defense, shall establish a 
    formal mechanism through which the information needs of the 
    Department of Homeland Security relating to civilian law 
    enforcement activities in proximity to the international borders of 
    the United States are identified and communicated to the Secretary 
    of Defense for the purposes of the planning and executing military 
    training by the Department of Defense.
        (2) Dissemination to the armed forces.--To the extent 
    practicable, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that such 
    information needs are disseminated to the Armed Forces in a timely 
    manner so the Armed Forces may take into account the information 
    needs of civilian law enforcement when planning and executing 
    training in accordance with section 371 of title 10, United States 
    Code.
        (3) Coordination of training.--To the maximum extent 
    practicable, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
    planning and execution of training described in paragraph (2) is 
    coordinated with the Department of Homeland Security.
    (c) Sharing of Certain Information.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland 
Security and the Secretary of Defense shall jointly formulate guidance 
to ensure that the information relevant to civilian law enforcement 
matters that is collected by the Armed Forces during the normal course 
of military training or operations in proximity to the international 
borders of the United States is provided promptly to relevant officials 
in accordance with section 371 of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Annual Reports.--
        (1) Department of defense report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than March 31 of each year, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on any assistance 
        provided by the Department of Defense to the border security 
        mission of the Department of Homeland Security at the 
        international borders of the United States during the fiscal 
        year preceding the fiscal year during which the report is 
        submitted.
            (B) Elements.--Each report submitted under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include each of the following:
                (i) A description of the military training and 
            operational activities of each military component 
            leveraged, pursuant to section 371 of title 10, United 
            States Code, to support the border security mission of the 
            Department of Homeland Security at the southern border of 
            the United States.
                (ii) For each activity described in clause (i), each of 
            the following, identified by component:

                    (I) The Department of Homeland Security information 
                need that was supported.
                    (II) The military training or operational activity 
                leveraged to provide support.
                    (III) The duration of the support.
                    (IV) The cost of the support.

                (iii) A description of any Department of Defense 
            activities provided in response to a request for assistance 
            from the Department of Homeland Security.
                (iv) For each activity described in clause (iii)--

                    (I) The stated rationale of the Department of 
                Homeland Security for requesting assistance from the 
                Department of Defense.
                    (II) The capability provided by the Department of 
                Defense.
                    (III) The duration of the assistance provided by 
                the capability.
                    (IV) The statutory authority under which the 
                assistance was provided.
                    (V) The cost of the assistance provided.
                    (VI) Whether the Department of Defense was 
                reimbursed by the Department of Homeland Security for 
                the assistance provided.
                    (VII) In the case of assistance for which the 
                Department of Defense was not reimbursed, the 
                justification for non-reimbursement.

                (v) A description of any Department of Defense excess 
            property provided to U. S. Customs and Border Protection.
                (vi) The status of the implementation of this section.
                (vii) A description of any other activity the Secretary 
            of Defense determines relevant.
        (2) Department of homeland security report.--Not later than 
    March 31 of each year, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on 
    Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the 
    Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate a report on--
            (A) any activities of the Department of Homeland Security 
        to reduce, mitigate, or eliminate the demand for Department of 
        Defense support at the international borders of the United 
        States; and
            (B) the status of implementation of this section.
        (3) Termination.--The requirement to submit a report under 
    paragraph (1) or (2) shall terminate on January 31, 2020.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1021. DEFINITION OF SHORT-TERM WORK WITH RESPECT TO OVERHAUL, 
REPAIR, OR MAINTENANCE OF NAVAL VESSELS.
    Section 7299a(c)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``six months'' and inserting ``10 months''.
SEC. 1022. WARRANTY REQUIREMENTS FOR SHIPBUILDING CONTRACTS.
    (a) Warranty Requirements.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 633 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7318. Warranty requirements for shipbuilding contracts
    ``(a) Requirement.--A contracting officer for a contract for new 
construction for which funds are expended from the Shipbuilding and 
Conversion, Navy account shall require, as a condition of the contract, 
that the work performed under the contract is covered by a warranty for 
a period of at least one year.
    ``(b) Waiver.--If the contracting officer for a contract covered by 
the requirement under subsection (a) determines that a limited 
liability of warranted work is in the best interest of the Government, 
the contracting officer may agree to limit the liability of the work 
performed under the contract to a level that the contracting officer 
determines is sufficient to protect the interests of the Government and 
in keeping with historical levels of warranted work on similar 
vessels.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``7318. Warranty requirements for shipbuilding contracts.''.

    (b) Effective Date.--Section 7318 of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a), shall take effect on the later of the 
following dates:
        (1) The date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization for Fiscal Year 2018.
        (2) September 30, 2017.
SEC. 1023. NATIONAL SEA-BASED DETERRENCE FUND.
    (a) Authority for Multiyear Procurement of Critical Components to 
Support Continuous Production of the Common Missile Compartment.--
Section 2218a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (i) and (j) as subsections (j) 
    and (k), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
    subsection (i):
    ``(i) Authority for Multiyear Procurement of Critical Components to 
Support Continuous Production of the Common Missile Compartment.--(1) 
To implement the continuous production of the common missile 
compartment, the Secretary of the Navy may use funds deposited in the 
Fund, in conjunction with funds appropriated for the procurement of 
other nuclear-powered vessels, to enter into one or more multiyear 
contracts (including economic ordering quantity contracts), for the 
procurement of critical contractor-furnished and Government-furnished 
components for the common missile compartments of national sea-based 
deterrence vessels. The authority under this subsection extends to the 
procurement of equivalent critical parts, components, systems, and 
subsystems common with and required for other nuclear-powered vessels.
    ``(2) In each annual budget request submitted to Congress, the 
Secretary shall clearly identify funds requested for the common missile 
compartment and the individual ships and programs for which such funds 
are requested.
    ``(3) Any contract entered into pursuant to paragraph (1) shall 
provide that any obligation of the United States to make a payment 
under the contract is subject to the availability of appropriations for 
that purpose and that the total liability to the Government for the 
termination of the contract shall be limited to the total amount of 
funding obligated for the contract as of the date of the 
termination.''.
    (b) Definition of National Sea-based Deterrence Vessel.--Subsection 
(k)(2) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (b), is amended--
        (1) by striking ``any vessel'' and inserting ``any submersible 
    vessel constructed or purchased after fiscal year 2016 that is''; 
    and
        (2) by inserting ``and'' before ``that carries''.
SEC. 1024. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OR INACTIVATION OF 
TICONDEROGA-CLASS CRUISERS OR DOCK LANDING SHIPS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2017 may be obligated or expended--
        (1) to retire, prepare to retire, or inactivate a cruiser or 
    dock landing ship; or
        (2) to place more than six cruisers and one dock landing ship 
    in the modernization program under section 1026(a)(2) of the Carl 
    Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3490).

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1031. FREQUENCY OF COUNTERTERRORISM OPERATIONS BRIEFINGS.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 485 of title 10, United 
States Code is amended by striking ``quarterly'' and inserting 
``monthly''.
    (b) Section Heading.--The section heading for such section is 
amended by striking ``Quarterly'' and inserting ``Monthly''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 23 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 485 and inserting the following new item:

``485. Monthly counterterrorism operations briefings.''.
SEC. 1032. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RELEASE OF 
INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, 
CUB, TO THE UNITED STATES.
    No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense may be used during the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
December 31, 2017, to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or 
release to or within the United States, its territories, or possessions 
of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
        (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
    Forces of the United States; and
        (2) is or was held on or after January 20, 2009, at United 
    States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of 
    Defense.
SEC. 1033. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY 
FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES TRANSFERRED FROM 
UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    (a) In General.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may be used 
during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and ending on December 31, 2017, to construct or modify any facility in 
the United States, its territories, or possessions to house any 
individual detained at Guantanamo for the purposes of detention or 
imprisonment in the custody or under the control of the Department of 
Defense unless authorized by Congress.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    (c) Individual Detained at Guantanamo Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 1034(f)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 971; 10 U.S. C. 
801 note).
SEC. 1034. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RELEASE TO 
CERTAIN COUNTRIES OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense may be used during the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
December 31, 2017, to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or 
release of any individual detained in the custody or under the control 
of the Department of Defense at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
Bay, Cuba, to the custody or control of any country, or any entity 
within such country, as follows:
        (1) Libya.
        (2) Somalia.
        (3) Syria.
        (4) Yemen.
SEC. 1035. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR REALIGNMENT OF FORCES AT OR 
CLOSURE OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2017 may be 
used--
        (1) to close or abandon United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
    Bay, Cuba;
        (2) to relinquish control of Guantanamo Bay to the Republic of 
    Cuba; or
        (3) to implement a material modification to the Treaty Between 
    the United States of America and Cuba signed at Washington, D.C. on 
    May 29, 1934, that constructively closes United States Naval 
    Station, Guantanamo Bay.
SEC. 1036. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR SENSITIVE 
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Timing of Notifications.--Subsection (a) of section 130f of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended in the first sentence, by 
inserting ``no later than 48 hours'' before ``following such 
operation''.
    (b) Procedures.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
        (1) In paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following new 
    sentence: ``The Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional 
    defense committees in writing of any changes to such procedures at 
    least 14 days prior to the adoption of any such changes''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) In the event of an unauthorized disclosure of a sensitive 
military operation covered by this section, the Secretary shall ensure, 
to the maximum extent practicable, that the congressional defense 
committees are notified immediately of the sensitive military operation 
concerned. The notification under this paragraph may be verbal or 
written, but in the event of a verbal notification a written 
notification shall be provided by not later than 48 hours after the 
provision of the verbal notification.''.
    (c) Briefing Requirements.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking the second sentence; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by inserting before the period at the 
    end the following: ``, including Department of Defense support to 
    such operations conducted under the National Security Act of 1947 
    (50 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.)''.
    (d) Definition of Sensitive Military Operation.--Subsection (d) of 
such section is amended by striking ``means'' and all that follows and 
inserting ``means the following:''
        ``(1) A lethal operation or capture operation--
            ``(A) conducted by the armed forces outside a declared 
        theater of active armed conflict; or
            ``(B) conducted by a foreign partner in coordination with 
        the armed forces that targets a specific individual or 
        individuals.
        ``(2) An operation conducted by the armed forces outside a 
    declared theater of active armed conflict in self-defense or in 
    defense of foreign partners, including during a cooperative 
    operation.''.
    (e) Repeal of Exception to Notification Requirement.--Such section 
is further amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (e); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
    (f) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 130f. Notification requirements for sensitive military 
    operations''.
        (2) Table of sections amendment.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of chapter 3 of such title is amended by striking the 
    item relating to section 130f and inserting the following new item:

``130f. Notification requirements for sensitive military operations.''.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1041. EXPANDED AUTHORITY FOR TRANSPORTATION BY THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE OF NON-DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL AND CARGO.
    (a) Transportation of Allied and Civilian Personnel and Cargo.--
Subsection (c) of section 2649 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Personnel'' and 
    inserting ``and Civilian Personnel and Cargo'';
        (2) by striking ``Until January 6, 2016, when'' and inserting 
    ``When''; and
        (3) by striking ``allied forces or civilians'', and inserting 
    ``allied and civilian personnel and cargo''.
    (b) Commercial Insurance.--Such section is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Commercial Insurance.--The Secretary may enter into a 
contract or other arrangement with one or more commercial providers to 
make insurance products available to non-Department of Defense shippers 
using the Defense Transportation System to insure against the loss or 
damage of the shipper's cargo. Any such contract or arrangement shall 
provide that--
        ``(1) any insurance premium is collected by the commercial 
    provider;
        ``(2) any claim for loss or damage is processed and paid by the 
    commercial provider;
        ``(3) the commercial provider agrees to hold the United States 
    harmless and waive any recourse against the United States for 
    amounts paid to an insured as a result of a claim; and
        ``(4) the contract between the commercial provider and the 
    insured shall contain a provision whereby the insured waives any 
    claim against the United States for loss or damage that is within 
    the scope of enumerated risks covered by the insurance product.''.
    (c) Conforming Cross-reference Amendments.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended by striking ``this section'' both places it appears 
and inserting ``subsection (a)''.
SEC. 1042. REDUCTION IN MINIMUM NUMBER OF NAVY CARRIER AIR WINGS AND 
CARRIER AIR WING HEADQUARTERS REQUIRED TO BE MAINTAINED.
    (a) Codification and Reduction.--Section 5062 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(e) The Secretary of the Navy shall ensure that--
        ``(1) the Navy maintains a minimum of 9 carrier air wings until 
    the earlier of--
            ``(A) the date on which additional operationally deployable 
        aircraft carriers can fully support a 10th carrier air wing; or
            ``(B) October 1, 2025;
        ``(2) after the earlier of the two dates referred to in 
    subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1), the Navy maintains a 
    minimum of 10 carrier air wings; and
        ``(3) for each such carrier air wing, the Navy maintains a 
    dedicated and fully staffed headquarters.''.
    (b) Repeal of Superseded Requirement.--Section 1093 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 
Stat. 1606; 10 U.S.C. 5062 note) is repealed.
SEC. 1043. MODIFICATION TO SUPPORT FOR NON-FEDERAL DEVELOPMENT AND 
TESTING OF MATERIAL FOR CHEMICAL AGENT DEFENSE.
    Section 1034 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by striking ``report on the use of the authority under 
        subsection (a)'' and all that follows and inserting ``report 
        that includes--''
            ``(A) a description of--
                ``(i) each use of the authority under subsection (a); 
            and
                ``(ii) for each such use, the specific material made 
            available and to whom it was made available; and
            ``(B) a description of--
                ``(i) any instance in which the Department of Defense 
            made available to a State, a unit of local government, or a 
            private entity any biological select agent or toxin for the 
            development or testing of any biodefense technology; and
                ``(ii) for each such instance, the specific material 
            made available and to whom it was made available.''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) The requirement to submit a report under paragraph (1) 
    shall terminate on January 31, 2021.''; and
        (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``this section'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``this section:''
        ``(1) The terms `precursor', `protective purposes', and `toxic 
    chemical' have the meanings given those terms in the convention 
    referred to in subsection (c), in paragraph 2, paragraph 9(b), and 
    paragraph 1, respectively, of article II of that convention.
        ``(2) The term `biological select agent or toxin' means any 
    agent or toxin identified under any of the following:
            ``(A) Section 331.3 of title 7, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            ``(B) Section 121.3 or section 121.4 of title 9, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.
            ``(C) Section 73.3 or section 73.4 of title 42, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.''.
SEC. 1044. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FEDERAL SPECTRUM OPERATIONS.
    Section 1004 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-
74; 47 U.S.C. 921 note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Protection of Certain Federal Spectrum Operations.--If the 
report required by subsection (a) determines that reallocation and 
auction of the spectrum described in the report would harm national 
security by impacting existing terrestrial Federal spectrum operations 
at the Nevada Test and Training Range, the Commission, in coordination 
with the Secretary shall, prior to the auction described in subsection 
(c)(1)(B), establish rules for licensees in such spectrum sufficient to 
mitigate harmful interference to such operations.
    ``(e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect any requirement under section 1062(b) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (47 U.S.C. 921 
note; Public Law 106-65).''.
SEC. 1045. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF LEGACY 
MARITIME MINE COUNTERMEASURES PLATFORMS.
    (a) Prohibitions.--Except as provided under subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the Navy may be obligated or 
expended to--
        (1) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in storage 
    any AVENGER-class mine countermeasures ship or associated 
    equipment;
        (2) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in storage 
    any SEA DRAGON (MH-53) helicopter or associated equipment;
        (3) make any reductions to manning levels with respect to any 
    AVENGER-class mine countermeasures ship; or
        (4) make any reductions to manning levels with respect to any 
    SEA DRAGON (MH-53) helicopter squadron or detachment.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive the limitations 
under subsection (a) if the Secretary certifies to the congressional 
defense committees that the Secretary has--
        (1) identified a replacement capability and the necessary 
    quantity of such systems to meet all combatant commander mine 
    countermeasures operational requirements that are currently being 
    met by the AVENGER-class ships and SEA DRAGON helicopters to be 
    retired, transferred, or placed in storage;
        (2) achieved initial operational capability of all systems 
    described in paragraph (1); and
        (3) deployed a sufficient quantity of systems described in 
    paragraph (1) that have achieved initial operational capability to 
    continue to meet or exceed all combatant commander mine 
    countermeasures operational requirements currently being met by the 
    AVENGER-class ships and SEA DRAGON helicopters.
SEC. 1046. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY OF SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION TO 
ISSUE NON-PREMIUM AVIATION INSURANCE.
    Section 44310(b) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
SEC. 1047. EVALUATION OF NAVY ALTERNATE COMBINATION COVER AND UNISEX 
COMBINATION COVER.
    (a) Mandatory Possession or Wear Date.--The Secretary of the Navy 
shall change the mandatory possession or wear date of the alternate 
combination cover or the unisex combination cover from October 31, 
2016, to October 31, 2018.
    (b) Evaluation and Report.--Not later than February 1, 2017, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the evaluation 
of the Navy female service dress uniforms based on surveying a 
representative group of female officer and enlisted service members. 
Such evaluation shall include each of the following:
        (1) An identification of the operational need addressed by the 
    alternate combination cover or the unisex combination cover.
        (2) An assessment of the individual cost of service dress 
    uniform items to members of the Armed Forces as a percentage of 
    their monthly pay.
        (3) The composition of each uniform item's wear test group.
        (4) An identification of the costs to the Navy and to 
    individual members of the Armed Forces for uniform changes 
    identified in the Navy administrative message 236/15 dated October 
    9, 2015.
        (5) The opinions of a representative group of female officer 
    and enlisted service members of the Navy active and reserve 
    components.
        (6) Any other rationale the Secretary determines appropriate.
SEC. 1048. INDEPENDENT EVALUATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXCESS 
PROPERTY PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into an 
agreement with a federally funded research and development center, or 
another appropriate independent entity, with relevant expertise to 
conduct an evaluation of the Department of Defense excess property 
program under section 2576a of title 10, United States Code. Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary shall submit such evaluation to the congressional defense 
committees.
    (b) Elements of Evaluation.--The evaluation required under 
paragraph (1) shall include each of the following:
        (1) A review of the current listing of ``authorized'', 
    ``controlled'', and ``prohibited'' items as defined by Executive 
    Order 13688 and by Department of Defense policy, guidance, and 
    instruction, as well as why each item is currently assigned to each 
    category.
        (2) A review of the preferences and any associated 
    prioritization provided to Federal, State, and local law 
    enforcement agency requests for excess equipment to be used in 
    border security, counterdrug, and counterterrorism activities, 
    pursuant to section 2576a(a)(1)(A) of title 10 United States Code, 
    including the overall numbers and percentages of equipment provided 
    and used under these preferential categories.
        (3) Whether the Department of Defense has bought a type of 
    equipment and declared as excess the same type of equipment during 
    the same year, and if so, how much such equipment.
        (4) The type of information being collected by State 
    coordinators and the Defense Logistics Agency when a request for 
    equipment is made, and whether or not that information is 
    sufficient to demonstrate a need for the equipment requested by the 
    law enforcement agency making the request.
        (5) The extent to which State coordinators and the Defense 
    Logistics Agency deny requests for equipment and the reasons for 
    such denials.
        (6) The extent to which law enforcement agencies have been 
    suspended from participating in the program and the reasons for 
    such suspensions.
        (7) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
SEC. 1049. WAIVER OF CERTAIN POLYGRAPH EXAMINATION REQUIREMENTS.
    The Secretary of Homeland Security, acting through the Commissioner 
of U.S. Customs and Border Protection, may waive the polygraph 
examination requirement under section 3 of the Anti-Border Corruption 
Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-376) for any applicant who--
        (1) the Commissioner determines is suitable for employment;
        (2) holds a current, active Top Secret clearance and is able to 
    access sensitive compartmented information;
        (3) has a current single scope background investigation;
        (4) was not granted any waivers to obtain the clearance; and
        (5) is a veteran (as such term is defined in section 2108 or 
    2109a of title 5, United States Code).
SEC. 1050. USE OF TRANSPORTATION WORKER IDENTIFICATION CREDENTIAL TO 
GAIN ACCESS AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Access to Installations for Credentialed Transportation 
Workers.--During the period that the Secretary is developing and 
fielding physical access standards, capabilities, processes, and 
electronic access control systems, the Secretary shall, to the maximum 
extent practicable, ensure that the Transportation Worker 
Identification Credential (TWIC) shall be accepted as a valid 
credential for unescorted access to Department of Defense installations 
by transportation workers.
    (b) Credentialed Transportation Workers With Secret Clearance.--
TWIC-carrying transportation workers who also have a current Secret 
Level Clearance issued by the Department of Defense shall be considered 
exempt from further vetting when seeking unescorted access at 
Department of Defense facilities. Access security personnel shall 
verify such person's security clearance in a timely manner and provide 
them with unescorted access to complete their freight service.
SEC. 1051. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DESTRUCTION OF 
CERTAIN LANDMINES AND BRIEFING ON DEVELOPMENT OF REPLACEMENT ANTI-
PERSONNEL LANDMINE MUNITIONS.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended for the destruction of anti-personnel landmine 
munitions before the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the 
report required by section 1058(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
986).
    (b) Exception for Safety.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
anti-personnel landmine munitions that the Secretary determines are 
unsafe or could pose a safety risk if not demilitarized or destroyed.
    (c) Briefing Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
    the congressional defense committees a briefing on the current 
    state of research and development into operational alternatives to 
    anti-personnel landmine munitions.
        (2) Form of briefing.--The briefing required by paragraph (1) 
    may contain classified information.
    (d) Anti-personnel Landmine Munitions Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``anti-personnel landmine munitions'' includes anti-personnel 
landmines and sub-munitions as defined by the Convention on the 
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
Personnel Mines and on their Destruction, as determined by the 
Secretary.
SEC. 1052. TRANSITION OF AIR FORCE TO OPERATION OF REMOTELY PILOTED 
AIRCRAFT BY ENLISTED PERSONNEL.
    (a) Transition Required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
transition the Air Force to an organizational model for all Air Force 
remotely piloted aircraft that uses a significant number of enlisted 
personnel as operators of such aircraft rather than officers only.
    (b) Deadlines.--
        (1) Regular component.--For the regular component of the Air 
    Force, the transition required by subsection (a) shall be completed 
    not later than September 30, 2020.
        (2) Reserve components.--For the Air Force Reserve and Air 
    National Guard, the transition required by subsection (a) shall be 
    completed not later than September 30, 2023.
    (c) Transition Matters.--The transition required by subsection (a) 
shall account for the following:
        (1) Training infrastructure for enlisted personnel operating 
    Air Force remotely piloted aircraft.
        (2) Supervisory roles for officers and senior enlisted 
    personnel for enlisted personnel operating Air Force remotely 
    piloted aircraft.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
    that sets forth a detailed description of the plan for the 
    transition required by subsection (a), including the following:
            (A) The objectives of the transition.
            (B) The timeline of the transition.
            (C) The resources required to implement the transition.
            (D) Recommendations for any legislation action required to 
        implement the transition.
            (E) The assumptions used to complete the transition.
            (F) Risks associated with implementing the transition.
        (2) Reports on progress of implementation.--Not later than 
    March 1, 2018, and each March 1 thereafter until the transition 
    required by subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall submit 
    to the committees referred to in paragraph (1) a report on the 
    progress of the Air Force in implementing the plan required under 
    that paragraph and in achieving the transition required by 
    subsection (a).
SEC. 1053. PROHIBITION ON DIVESTMENT OF MARINE CORPS SEARCH AND RESCUE 
UNITS.
    None of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the Navy or the 
Marine Corps may be obligated or expended--
        (1) to retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in storage 
    any Marine Corps Search and Rescue Unit (SRU) aircraft; or
        (2) to make any change or revision to manning levels with 
    respect to any Marine Corps Search and Rescue Unit squadron.
SEC. 1054. SUPPORT FOR THE ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR OF THE CENTRAL 
INTELLIGENCE AGENCY FOR MILITARY AFFAIRS.
    (a) Selection of Associate Director.--The Associate Director of the 
Central Intelligence Agency for Military Affairs shall be selected by 
the Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Director of the 
Central Intelligence Agency, from among commissioned officers of the 
Armed Forces who are general or flag officers.
    (b) Support for Activities.--
        (1) In general.--In order to improve the provision of support 
    to, and the receipt of support from, the Central Intelligence 
    Agency, and to improve deconfliction of the activities of the 
    Central Intelligence Agency and the Department of Defense, the 
    Secretary of Defense and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Intelligence shall ensure that the Associate Director of the 
    Central Intelligence Agency for Military Affairs has access to, and 
    support from, offices, agencies, and programs of the Department 
    necessary for the purposes of the Associate Director as follows:
            (A) To facilitate and coordinate Department of Defense 
        support for the Central Intelligence Agency requested by the 
        Director of the Central Intelligence Agency and approved by the 
        Secretary, including oversight of Department of Defense 
        military and civilian personnel detailed or assigned to the 
        Central Intelligence Agency.
            (B) To prioritize, communicate, and coordinate Department 
        of Defense requests for, and the provision of support to, the 
        Department of Defense from the Central Intelligence Agency, 
        including support requested by and provided to the commanders 
        of the combatant commands and subordinate task forces and 
        commands.
        (2) Policies.--The Under Secretary shall develop and supervise 
    the implementation of policies to integrate and communicate 
    Department of Defense requirements and requests for support from 
    the Central Intelligence Agency that are coordinated by the 
    Associate Director pursuant to paragraph (1)(B).
SEC. 1055. NOTIFICATION ON THE PROVISION OF DEFENSE SENSITIVE SUPPORT.
    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of Defense may provide defense 
sensitive support to a non-Department of Defense Federal department or 
agency only after the Secretary has determined that such support--
        (1) is consistent with the mission and functions of the 
    Department of Defense; and
        (2) does--
            (A) not significantly interfere with the mission or 
        functions of the Department; or
            (B) interfere with the mission and functions of the 
        Department of Defense but such support is in the national 
        security interest of the United States.
    (b) Notice Required.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), before 
    providing defense sensitive support to a non-Department of Defense 
    Federal department or agency, the Secretary of Defense shall notify 
    the congressional defense committees, and, when the part of the 
    Department of Defense providing the sensitive support is a member 
    of the intelligence community, the congressional intelligence 
    committees of the Secretary's intent to provide such support.
        (2) Contents.--Notice provided under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description of the support to be provided.
            (B) A description of how the support is consistent with the 
        mission and functions of the Department.
            (C) A description of how the support--
                (i) does not significantly interfere with the mission 
            or functions of the Department; or
                (ii) significantly interferes with the mission or 
            functions of the Department but is in the national security 
            interest of the United States.
        (3) Time sensitive support.--In the event that the provision of 
    defense sensitive support is time-sensitive, the Secretary--
            (A) may provide notification under paragraph (1) after 
        providing the support; and
            (B) shall provide such notice as soon as practicable after 
        providing such support, but not later than 48 hours after 
        providing the support.
    (c) Defense Sensitive Support Defined.--In this section, the term 
``defense sensitive support'' means support provided by the Department 
of Defense to a non-Department of Defense Federal department or agency 
that requires special protection from disclosure.
SEC. 1056. PROHIBITION ON ENFORCEMENT OF MILITARY COMMISSION RULINGS 
PREVENTING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES FROM CARRYING OUT OTHERWISE 
LAWFUL DUTIES BASED ON MEMBER SEX.
    (a) Prohibition.--No order, ruling, finding, or other determination 
of a military commission may be construed or implemented to prohibit or 
restrict a member of the Armed Forces from carrying out duties 
otherwise lawfully assigned to such member to the extent that the basis 
for such prohibition or restriction is the sex of such member.
    (b) Applicability to Prior Orders, etc..--The prohibition or 
restriction described in subsection (a) shall, upon motion, apply to 
any order, ruling, finding, or other determination described in that 
subsection that was issued before the date of the enactment of this Act 
in a military commission and is still effective as of the date of such 
motion.
    (c) Military Commission Defined.--In this section, the term 
``military commission'' means a military commission established under 
chapter 47A of title 10, United States Code, and any military 
commission otherwise established or convened by law.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1061. TEMPORARY CONTINUATION OF CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Exceptions to Reports Termination Provision.--Section 1080 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92; 129 Stat. 1000; 10 U.S.C. 111 note) does not apply to any 
report required to be submitted to Congress by the Department of 
Defense, or by any officer, official, component, or element of the 
Department, pursuant to a provision of law specified in this section, 
notwithstanding the enactment of the reporting requirement by an annual 
national defense authorization Act or the inclusion of the report in 
the list of reports prepared by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to 
subsection (c) of such section 1080.
    (b) Final Termination Date for Submittal of Exempted Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), each 
    report required pursuant to a provision of law specified in this 
    section that is still required to be submitted to Congress as of 
    December 31, 2021, shall no longer be required to be submitted to 
    Congress after that date.
        (2) Reports exempted from termination.--The termination dates 
    specified in paragraph (1) and section 1080 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 do not apply to the 
    following:
            (A) The submission of the reports on the National Military 
        Strategy and Risk Assessment under section 153(b)(3) of title 
        10, United States Code.
            (B) The submission of the future-years defense program 
        (including associated annexes) under section 221 of title 10, 
        United States Code.
            (C) The submission of the future-years mission budget for 
        the military programs of the Department of Defense under 
        section 221 of such title.
            (D) The submission of audits of contracting compliance by 
        the Inspector General of the Department of Defense under 
        section 1601(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2533a note).
    (c) Reports Required by Title 10, United States Code.--Subject to 
subsection (b), subsection (a) applies to reporting requirements 
contained in the following sections of title 10, United States Code:
        (1) Section 113(i).
        (2) Section 117(e).
        (3) 118a(d).
        (4) Section 119(a) and (b).
        (5) Section 127b(f).
        (6) Section 139(h).
        (7) Section 139b(d).
        (8) Sections 153(c).
        (9) Section 171a(e) and (g)(2).
        (10) Section 179(f).
        (11) Section 196(d)(1), (d)(4), and (e)(3).
        (12) Section 223a(a).
        (13) Section 225(c)
        (14) Section 229.
        (15) Section 231.
        (16) Section 231a.
        (17) Section 238.
        (18) Section 341(f) of title 10, United States Code, as amended 
    by section 1246 of this Act.
        (19) Section 401(d).
        (20) Section 407(d).
        (21) Section 481a(c).
        (22) Section 482(a).
        (23) Section 488(c).
        (24) Section 494(b).
        (25) Section 526(j).
        (26) Section 946(c) (Article 146 of the Uniform Code of 
    Military Justice).
        (27) Section 981(c).
        (28) Section 1116(d).
        (29) Section 1566(c)(3).
        (30) Section 1557(e).
        (31) Section 1781a(e).
        (32) Section 1781c(h).
        (33) Section 2011(e).
        (34) Section 2166(i).
        (35) Section 2218(h).
        (36) Section 2228(e).
        (37) Section 2229(d).
        (38) Section 2229a.
        (39) Section 2249c(c).
        (40) Section 2275.
        (41) Section 2276(e).
        (42) Section 2367(d).
        (43) Section 2399(g).
        (44) Section 2445b.
        (45) Section 2464(d).
        (46) Section 2466(d).
        (47) Section 2504.
        (48) Section 2561(c).
        (49) Section 2684a(g).
        (50) Section 2687a.
        (51) Section 2711.
        (52) Sections 2884(b) and (c).
        (53) Section 2911(a) and (b)(3).
        (54) Section 2925.
        (55) Section 2926(c)(4).
        (56) Section 4361(d)(4)(B).
        (57) Section 4721(e).
        (58) Section 6980(d)(4)(B).
        (59) Section 7310(c).
        (60) Section 9361(d)(4)(B).
        (61) Section 10216(c).
        (62) Section 10541.
        (63) Section 10543.
    (d) Reports Required by National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015.--Subject to subsection (b), subsection (a) applies to 
reporting requirements contained in the following sections of the Carl 
Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291):
        (1) Section 546(d) (10 U.S.C. 1561 note).
        (2) Section 1003 (10 U.S.C. 221 note).
        (3) Section 1026(d) (128 Stat. 3490).
        (4) Section 1055 (128 Stat. 3498).
        (5) Section 1204(b) (10 U.S.C. 2249e note).
        (6) Section 1205(e) (128 Stat. 3537).
        (7) Section 1206(e) (10 U.S.C. 2282 note).
        (8) Section 1211 (128 Stat. 3544).
        (9) Section 1225 (128 Stat. 3550).
        (10) Section 1235 (128 Stat. 3558).
        (11) Section 1245 (128 Stat. 3566).
        (12) Section 1253(b) (22 U.S.C. 2151 note).
        (13) Section 1275(b) (128 Stat. 3591).
        (14) Section 1343 (128 Stat. 3605; 50 U.S.C. 3743).
        (15) Section 1650 (128 Stat. 3653).
        (16) Section 1662(c)(2) and (d)(2) (128 Stat. 3657; 10 U.S.C. 
    2431 note).
        (17) Section 2821(a)(3) (10 U.S.C. 2687 note).
    (e) Reports Required by National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014.--Subject to subsection (b), subsection (a) applies to 
reporting requirements contained in the following sections of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66):
        (1) Section 704(e) (10 U.S.C. 1074 note).
        (2) Sections 713(f), (g), and (h) (10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
        (3) Section 904(d)(2) (10 U.S.C. 111 note).
        (4) Section 1205(f)(3) (32 U.S.C. 107 note).
    (f) Reports Required by National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013.--Subject to subsection (b), subsection (a) applies to 
reporting requirements contained in the following sections of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239):
        (1) Section 524(c)(2) (10 U.S.C. 1222 note).
        (2) Section 904(h)(1) and (2) (10 U.S.C. 133 note).
        (3) Section 1009 (126 Stat. 1906).
        (4) Section 1023 (126 Stat. 1911).
        (5) Section 1052(b)(4) (126 Stat. 1936; 49 U.S.C. 40101 note).
    (g) Reports Required by National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2011.--Subject to subsection (b), subsection (a) applies to 
reporting requirements contained in the following sections of the Ike 
Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public 
Law 111-383):
        (1) Section 123 (10 U.S.C. 167 note).
        (2) Section 1216(c) (124 Stat. 4392).
        (3) Section 1217(i) (22 U.S.C. 7513 note).
        (4) Section 1631(d) (10 U.S.C. 1561 note).
    (h) Reports Required by National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010.--Subject to subsection (b), subsection (a) applies to 
reporting requirements contained in the following sections of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84):
        (1) Section 711(d) (10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
        (2) Section 1003(b) (10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
        (3) Section 1244(d) (22 U.S.C. 1928 note).
        (4) Section 1245 (123 Stat. 2542).
        (5) Section 1806 (10 U.S.C. 948a note).
    (i) Reports Required by Other Laws.--Subject to subsection (b), 
subsection (a) applies to reporting requirements contained in the 
following provisions of law:
        (1) Sections 1412(i) and (j) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521), as amended by section 
    1421 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383).
        (2) Section 1703 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1994 (50 U.S.C. 1523).
        (3) Section 717(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 1996 (Public Law 104-106; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note).
        (4) Section 234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1998 (50 U.S.C. 2367).
        (5) Section 1309(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
        (6) Section 1237(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
        (7) Section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
        (8) Section 232(h)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note).
        (9) Section 366(a)(5) and (c)(2) of the Bob Stump National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 
    10 U.S.C. 113 note).
        (10) Section 1208(f) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 
    Stat. 2086).
        (11) Section 1208(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 119 Stat. 3459).
        (12) Section 1405(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 10 U.S.C. 801 note).
        (13) Section 122(f)(1) of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
    Stat. 2104).
        (14) Section 721 of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
    Stat. 2294).
        (15) Section 1017(e) of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 
    U.S.C. 2631 note).
        (16) Section 1517(f) of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
    Stat. 2443).
        (17) Section 911(f)(2) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 2271 note).
        (18) Section 1034(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 309).
        (19) Section 1107(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 358).
        (20) Section 1233(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393).
        (21) Section 1234(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394).
        (22) Section 219(c) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 
    U.S.C. 2358 note).
        (23) Section 533(i) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 110-417).
        (24) Section 1047(d)(2) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 110-417; 10 
    U.S.C. 2366b note).
        (25) Section 1201(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1619).
        (26) Section 1236 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1641).
        (27) Section 103A(b)(3) of the Sikes Act (16 U.S.C. 670c-
    1(b)(3)).
        (28) Section 1511(h) of the Armed Forces Retirement Home Act of 
    1991 (24 U.S.C. 411(h)).
        (29) Section 901(f) of the Office of National Drug Control 
    Policy Reauthorization Act of 2006 (Public Law 109-469; 32 U.S.C. 
    112 note), as added by section 1008 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239).
        (30) Section 14 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock 
    Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98h-5).
        (31) Section 105A(b) of the Uniformed and Overseas Citizens 
    Absentee Voting Act (52 U.S.C. 20308(b)), as added by section 586 
    of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
    (Public Law 111-84).
        (32) Section 112(f) of title 32, United States Code.
        (33) Section 310b(i)(2) of title 37, United States Code.
    (j) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1080(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
1000; 10 U.S.C. 111 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``on the date that is two years after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act'' and inserting ``November 25, 2017''; 
    and
        (2) by striking ``effective''.
    (k) Report to Congress.--Not later than February 1, 2017, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that includes each of the following:
        (1) A list of all reports that are required to be submitted to 
    Congress as of the date of the enactment of this Act that will no 
    longer be required to be submitted to Congress as of November 25, 
    2017.
        (2) For each such report, a citation to the provision of law 
    under which the report is or was required to be submitted.
SEC. 1062. REPORTS ON PROGRAMS MANAGED UNDER ALTERNATIVE COMPENSATORY 
CONTROL MEASURES IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 2 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 119a. Programs managed under alternative compensatory control 
    measures: congressional oversight
    ``(a) Annual Report on Current Programs Under AACMS.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 1 each year, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the programs being managed under alternative 
    compensatory control measures in the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall set 
    forth the following:
            ``(A) The total amount requested for programs being managed 
        under alternative compensatory control measures in the 
        Department in the budget of the President under section 1105 of 
        title 31 for the fiscal year beginning in the fiscal year in 
        which such report is submitted.
            ``(B) For each program in that budget that is a program 
        being managed under alternative compensatory control measures 
        in the Department--
                ``(i) a brief description of the program;
                ``(ii) a brief discussion of the major milestones 
            established for the program;
                ``(iii) the actual cost of the program for each fiscal 
            year during which the program has been conducted before the 
            fiscal year during which that budget is submitted; and
                ``(iv) the estimated total cost of the program and the 
            estimated cost of the program for--

                    ``(I) the current fiscal year;
                    ``(II) the fiscal year for which that budget is 
                submitted; and
                    ``(III) each of the four succeeding fiscal years 
                during which the program is expected to be conducted.

        ``(3) Elements on programs covered by multiyear budgeting.--In 
    the case of a report under paragraph (1) submitted in a year during 
    which the budget of the President for the fiscal year concerned 
    does not, because of multiyear budgeting for the Department, 
    include a full budget request for the Department, the report 
    required by paragraph (1) shall set forth--
            ``(A) the total amount already appropriated for the next 
        fiscal year for programs being managed under alternative 
        compensatory control measures in the Department, and any 
        additional amount requested in that budget for such programs 
        for such fiscal year; and
            ``(B) for each program that is a program being managed 
        under alternative compensatory control measures in the 
        Department, the information specified in paragraph (2)(B).
    ``(b) Annual Report on New Programs Under AACMS.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than February 1 each year, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report that, with respect to each new program being managed under 
    alternative compensatory control measures in the Department, 
    provides--
            ``(A) notice of the designation of the program as a program 
        being managed under alternative compensatory control measures 
        in the Department; and
            ``(B) a justification for such designation.
        ``(2) Additional elements.--A report under paragraph (1) with 
    respect to a program shall include--
            ``(A) the current estimate of the total program cost for 
        the program; and
            ``(B) an identification of existing programs or 
        technologies that are similar to the technology, or that have a 
        mission similar to the mission, of the program that is the 
        subject of the report.
        ``(3) New program being managed under alternative compensatory 
    control measures defined.--In this subsection, the term `new 
    program being managed under alternative compensatory control 
    measures' means a program in the Department that has not previously 
    been covered by a report under this subsection.
    ``(c) Report on Change in Classification or Declassification of 
Programs.--
        ``(1) In general.--Whenever a change in the classification of a 
    program being managed under alternative compensatory control 
    measures in the Department is planned to be made, or whenever 
    classified information concerning a program being managed under 
    alternative compensatory control measures in the Department is to 
    be declassified and made public, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report containing a description 
    of the proposed change, the reasons for the proposed change, and 
    notice of any public announcement planned to be made with respect 
    to the proposed change.
        ``(2) Deadline for report.--Except as provided in paragraph 
    (3), a report required by paragraph (1) shall be submitted not less 
    than 14 days before the date on which the proposed change or public 
    announcement concerned is to occur.
        ``(3) Exception.--If the Secretary determines that because of 
    exceptional circumstances the requirement in paragraph (2) cannot 
    be met with respect to a proposed change or public announcement 
    concerning a program covered by paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
    submit the report required by that paragraph regarding the proposed 
    change or public announcement at any time before the proposed 
    change or public announcement is made, and shall include in the 
    report an explanation of the exceptional circumstances.
    ``(d) Modification of Criteria or Policy for Designating Programs 
Under Accms.--Whenever there is a modification or termination of the 
policy or criteria used for designating a program as a program being 
managed under alternative compensatory control measures in the 
Department, the Secretary shall promptly notify the congressional 
defense committees of such modification or termination. Any such 
notification shall contain the reasons for the modification or 
termination and, in the case of a modification, the provisions of the 
policy or criteria as modified.
    ``(e) Waiver.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may waive any requirement in 
    subsection (a), (b), or (c) that certain information be included in 
    a report under such subsection if the Secretary determines that 
    inclusion of that information in the report would adversely affect 
    the national security. Any such waiver shall be made on a case-by-
    case basis.
        ``(2) Notice to congress.--If the Secretary exercises the 
    authority in paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide the 
    information described in the applicable subsection with respect to 
    the program concerned, and the justification for the waiver, 
    jointly to the chairman and ranking minority member of each of the 
    congressional defense committees.
    ``(f) Limitation on Initiation of Programs Under Accms.--
        ``(1) Notice and wait.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), a 
    program to be managed under alternative compensatory control 
    measures in the Department may not be initiated until--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees are notified of 
        the program; and
            ``(B) a period of 30 days elapses after such notification 
        is received.
        ``(2) Exception.--If the Secretary determines that waiting for 
    the regular notification process before initiating a program as 
    described in paragraph (1) would cause exceptionally grave damage 
    to the national security, the Secretary may begin a program to be 
    managed under alternative compensatory control measures in the 
    Department before such waiting period elapses. The Secretary shall 
    notify the congressional defense committees within 10 days of 
    initiating a program under this paragraph, including a 
    justification for the determination of the Secretary that waiting 
    for the regular notification process would cause exceptionally 
    grave damage to the national security.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 2 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``119a. Programs managed under alternative compensatory control 
          measures: congressional oversight.''.
SEC. 1063. MATTERS FOR INCLUSION IN REPORT ON DESIGNATION OF COUNTRIES 
FOR WHICH REWARDS MAY BE PAID UNDER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE REWARDS 
PROGRAM.
    Section 127b(h) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``and justification'' after 
    ``reason''; and
        (2) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
        ``(3) An estimate of the amount or value of the rewards to be 
    paid as monetary payment or payment-in-kind under this section.''.
SEC. 1064. ANNUAL REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE ARMED FORCES 
AND THE COMBATANT COMMANDS AND ANNUAL REPORT ON COMBATANT COMMAND 
REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Annual Reports Required.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after section 222 the following new section:
``Sec. 222a. Unfunded priorities of the armed forces and combatant 
    commands: annual report
    ``(a) Annual Report.--Not later than 10 days after the date on 
which the budget of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to 
Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, each officer specified 
in subsection (b) shall submit to the Secretary of Defense and the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and to the congressional defense 
committees, a report on the unfunded priorities of the armed force or 
forces or combatant command under the jurisdiction or command of such 
officer.
    ``(b) Officers.--The officers specified in this subsection are the 
following:
        ``(1) The Chief of Staff of the Army.
        ``(2) The Chief of Naval Operations.
        ``(3) The Chief of Staff of the Air Force.
        ``(4) The Commandant of the Marine Corps.
        ``(5) The commanders of the combatant commands established 
    under section 161 of this title.
    ``(c) Elements.--
        ``(1) In general.--Each report under this subsection shall 
    specify, for each unfunded priority covered by such report, the 
    following:
            ``(A) A summary description of such priority, including the 
        objectives to be achieved if such priority is funded (whether 
        in whole or in part).
            ``(B) The additional amount of funds recommended in 
        connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) Account information with respect to such priority, 
        including the following (as applicable):
                ``(i) Line Item Number (LIN) for applicable procurement 
            accounts.
                ``(ii) Program Element (PE) number for applicable 
            research, development, test, and evaluation accounts.
                ``(iii) Sub-activity group (SAG) for applicable 
            operation and maintenance accounts.
        ``(2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report shall present 
    the unfunded priorities covered by such report in order of urgency 
    of priority.
    ``(d) Unfunded Priority Defined.--In this section, the term 
`unfunded priority', in the case of a fiscal year, means a program, 
activity, or mission requirement that--
        ``(1) is not funded in the budget of the President for the 
    fiscal year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of 
    title 31;
        ``(2) is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with an 
    operational or contingency plan of a combatant command or other 
    validated requirement; and
        ``(3) would have been recommended for funding through the 
    budget referred to in paragraph (1) by the officer submitting the 
    report required by subsection (a) in connection with the budget 
    if--
            ``(A) additional resources been available for the budget to 
        fund the program, activity, or mission requirement; or
            ``(B) the program, activity, or mission requirement has 
        emerged since the budget was formulated.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 9 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 222 the following new item:

``222a. Unfunded priorities of the armed forces and combatant commands: 
          annual report.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Provision.--Section 1003 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 113-239; 126 
Stat. 1903) is repealed.
    (c) Submittal of Annual Report on Combatant Command Requirements.--
Section 153(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``At or about the time that the budget is submitted to 
Congress for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) of title 31'' and 
inserting ``Not later than 25 days after the date on which the budget 
of the President for a fiscal year is submitted to Congress pursuant to 
section 1105(a) of title 31''.
SEC. 1065. MANAGEMENT AND REVIEWS OF ELECTROMAGNETIC SPECTRUM.
    (a) Management and Reviews.--
        (1) In general.--Section 488 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 488. Management and review of electromagnetic spectrum
    ``(a) Organization.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
        ``(1) ensure the effective organization and management of the 
    electromagnetic spectrum used by the Department of Defense; and
        ``(2) establish an enduring review and evaluation process 
    that--
            ``(A) considers all requirements relating to such spectrum; 
        and
            ``(B) ensures that all users of such spectrum, regardless 
        of the classification of such uses, are involved in the 
        decision-making process of the Department concerning the 
        potential sharing, reassigning, or reallocating of such 
        spectrum, or the relocation of the uses by the Department of 
        such spectrum.
    ``(b) Reports.--(1) From time to time as the Secretary and the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff determine useful for the 
effective oversight of the access by the Department to electromagnetic 
spectrum, but not less frequently than every two years, the Secretary 
and the Chairman shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on national policy plans regarding implications for 
such access in bands identified for study for potential reallocation, 
or under consideration for potential reallocation, by the Policy and 
Plans Steering Group established by the National Telecommunications and 
Information Administration.
    ``(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall address, with respect 
to the electromagnetic spectrum used by the Department that is covered 
by the report, the implications to the missions of the Department 
resulting from sharing, reassigning, or reallocating the spectrum, or 
relocating the uses by the Department of such spectrum, if the 
Secretary and the Chairman jointly determine that such sharing, 
reassigning, reallocating, or relocation--
        ``(A) would potentially create a loss of essential military 
    capability to the missions of the Department, as determined under 
    feasibility assessments to ensure comparable capability; or
        ``(B) would not likely be possible within the 10-year period 
    beginning on the date of the report.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 23 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 488 and inserting the following new item:

``488. Management and review of electromagnetic spectrum.''.

    (b) Issuance of Instruction or Directive.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, issue a Department of Defense Instruction or a Department 
    of Defense Directive to carry out section 488(a) of title 10, 
    United States Code, as amended by subsection (a); and
        (2) upon the date of the issuance of the instruction or 
    directive issued under paragraph (1), submit to the congressional 
    defense committees such instruction or directive.
    (c) Initial Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report described in section 488(b) of title 10, United 
States Code, as amended by subsection (a), with respect to--
        (1) the plan by the National Telecommunications and Information 
    Administration titled ``Sixth Interim Progress Report on the Ten-
    Year Plan and Timetable'' issued in June 2016; and
        (2) the seventh such interim progress report issued (or to be 
    issued) by the National Telecommunications and Information 
    Administration.
SEC. 1066. REQUIREMENT FOR NOTICE AND REPORTING TO COMMITTEES ON ARMED 
SERVICES ON CERTAIN EXPENDITURES OF FUNDS BY DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE 
AGENCY.
    Section 105(c) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3038(c)) is amended by inserting ``, the Committee on Armed Services of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives'' after ``committees'' each place it appears.
SEC. 1067. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF BIOLOGICAL SELECT AGENT AND 
TOXIN THEFT, LOSS, OR RELEASE INVOLVING THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Notification Requirement.--Not later than 15 days after notice 
of any theft, loss, or release of a biological select agent or toxin 
involving the Department of Defense is provided to the Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention or the Animal and Plant Health 
Inspection Service, as specified by section 331.19 of part 7 of the 
Code of Federal Regulations, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
the congressional defense committees notice of such theft, loss, or 
release.
    (b) Elements.--Notice of a theft, loss, or release of a biological 
select agent or toxin under subsection (a) shall include each of the 
following:
        (1) The name of the agent or toxin and any identifying 
    information, including the strain or other relevant 
    characterization information.
        (2) An estimate of the quantity of the agent or toxin stolen, 
    lost, or released.
        (3) The location or facility from which the theft, loss, or 
    release occurred.
        (4) In the case of a release, any hazards posed by the release 
    and the number of individuals potentially exposed to the agent or 
    toxin.
        (5) Actions taken to respond to the theft, loss, or release.
SEC. 1068. REPORT ON SERVICE-PROVIDED SUPPORT AND ENABLING CAPABILITIES 
TO UNITED STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS FORCES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a written report on service-common 
support and enabling capabilities contributed from each of the military 
services to special operations forces. Such report shall include each 
of the following:
        (1) A definition of the terms ``service-common'' and ``special 
    operations-peculiar''.
        (2) A description of the factors and process used by the 
    Department of Defense to determine whether combat support, combat 
    service support, base operating support, and enabling capabilities 
    are service-common or special operations-peculiar.
        (3) A detailed accounting of the resources allocated by each 
    military service to provide combat support, combat service support, 
    base operating support, and enabling capabilities for special 
    operations forces.
        (4) An identification of any change in the level or type of 
    service-common support and enabling capabilities provided by each 
    of the military services to special operations forces in the 
    current fiscal year when compared to the preceding fiscal year, 
    including the rationale for any such change and any mitigating 
    actions.
        (5) An assessment of the specific effects that the budget 
    request for the current fiscal year and any anticipated future 
    manpower and force structure changes are likely to have on the 
    ability of each of the military services to provide service-common 
    support and enabling capabilities to special operations forces.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary determines relevant.
    (b) Annual Updates.--For each of fiscal years 2018 through 2020, at 
the same time the Secretary of Defense submits to Congress the budget 
request for such fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an update to the report required under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required under subsection (a) and 
each update provided under subsection (b) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1069. REPORT ON CITIZEN SECURITY RESPONSIBILITIES IN THE NORTHERN 
TRIANGLE OF CENTRAL AMERICA.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall jointly prepare and submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report on military units that have been assigned to 
policing or citizen security responsibilities in Guatemala, Honduras, 
and El Salvador.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include each of the following:
        (1) The following information, as of the date of the enactment 
    of this Act, with respect to military units assigned to policing or 
    citizen security responsibilities in each of Guatemala, Honduras, 
    and El Salvador:
            (A) The proportion of individuals in each such country's 
        military who participate in policing or citizen security 
        activities relative to the total number of individuals in that 
        country's military.
            (B) Of the military units assigned to policing or citizen 
        security responsibilities, the types of units conducting police 
        activities.
            (C) The role of the Department of Defense and the 
        Department of State in training individuals for purposes of 
        participation in such military units.
            (D) The number of individuals who participated in such 
        military units who received training by the Department of 
        Defense, and the types of training they received.
        (2) Any other information that the Secretary of Defense or the 
    Secretary of State determines to be necessary to help better 
    understand the relationships of the militaries of Guatemala, 
    Honduras, and El Salvador to public security in such countries.
        (3) A description of the plan of the United States to assist 
    the militaries of Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador to carry out 
    their responsibilities in a manner that adheres to democratic 
    principles.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
    (d) Public Availability.--The unclassified matter of the report 
required by subsection (a) shall be posted on a publicly available 
Internet website of the Department of Defense and a publicly available 
Internet website of the Department of State.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the Committee on 
Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee 
on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 1070. REPORT ON COUNTERPROLIFERATION ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than July 1, 2017, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the counterproliferation activities and programs of the Department 
of Defense.
    (b) Matters Included.--The report required under subsection (a) 
shall include each of the following:
        (1) A complete list and assessment of existing and proposed 
    capabilities and technologies for support of United States 
    nonproliferation policy and counterproliferation policy, with 
    regard to--
            (A) interdiction;
            (B) elimination;
            (C) threat reduction cooperation;
            (D) passive defenses;
            (E) security cooperation and partner activities;
            (F) offensive operations;
            (G) active defenses; and
            (H) weapons of mass destruction consequence management.
        (2) For the existing and proposed capabilities and technologies 
    identified under paragraph (1), an identification of goals, a 
    description of ongoing efforts, and recommendations for further 
    enhancements.
        (3) A complete description of requirements and priorities for 
    the development and deployment of highly effective capabilities and 
    technologies, including identifying areas for capability 
    enhancement and deficiencies in existing capabilities and 
    technologies.
        (4) A comprehensive discussion of the near-term, mid-term, and 
    long-term programmatic options for meeting requirements and 
    eliminating deficiencies, including the annual funding requirements 
    and completion dates established for each such option.
        (5) An outline of interagency activities and initiatives.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Forms of Report.--The report under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex.
SEC. 1071. REPORT ON TESTING AND INTEGRATION OF MINEHUNTING SONAR 
SYSTEMS TO IMPROVE LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP MINEHUNTING CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Report to Congress.--Not later than April 1, 2018, the 
Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that contains the findings of an assessment of all 
operational minehunting Synthetic Aperture Sonar (hereinafter referred 
to as ``SAS'') technologies suitable to meet the requirements for use 
on the Littoral Combat Ship Mine Countermeasures Mission Package.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include--
        (1) an explanation of the future acquisition strategy for the 
    minehunting mission package;
        (2) specific details regarding the capabilities of all in-
    production SAS systems available for integration into the Littoral 
    Combat Ship Mine Countermeasure Mission Package;
        (3) an assessment of key performance parameters for the 
    Littoral Combat Ship Mine Countermeasures Mission Package with each 
    of the assessed SAS technologies; and
        (4) a review of the Department of the Navy's efforts to 
    evaluate SAS technologies in operation with allied Navies for 
    future use on the Littoral Combat Ship Mine Countermeasures Mission 
    Package.
    (c) System Testing.--The Secretary of the Navy is encouraged to 
perform at-sea testing and experimentation of sonar systems in order to 
provide data in support of the assessment required by subsection (a).
SEC. 1072. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON PARACHUTE JUMPS CONDUCTED AT FORT BRAGG 
AND POPE ARMY AIRFIELD AND AIR FORCE SUPPORT FOR SUCH JUMPS.
    For the period beginning on January 31, 2017, and ending on January 
31, 2018, the Secretary of the Air Force and the Secretary of the Army 
shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate quarterly reports on the parachute 
drop requirements for the XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne 
Division, and the United States Army Special Operations Command. Each 
such report shall include, for the calendar quarter covered by the 
report--
        (1) the total parachute drop requirement, by month;
        (2) the total parachute drops requested, by month;
        (3) the total parachute drops for which the Secretary of the 
    Air Force entered into a contract, by month;
        (4) the total parachute drops executed by non-Air Force 
    entities pursuant to contracts, by month;
        (5) the total parachute drops executed by the Air Force, by 
    month;
        (6) if the total parachute drop requirement was not fulfilled 
    for the quarter, the reasons why such requirement was not fulfilled 
    and the assessment of the Secretary of the Army of any effects on 
    Army readiness caused by the unfulfilled portion of the 
    requirement; and
        (7) any other clarifying information, as appropriate, the 
    Secretaries determine the Committees would need to understand 
    important aspects of the Air Force implementing off-site airlift 
    support for XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne Division, and 
    the United States Army Special Operations Command, and the ability 
    of the Air Force to meet the training requirements of the Army and 
    the United States Special Operations Command.
SEC. 1073. STUDY ON MILITARY HELICOPTER NOISE.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, shall--
        (1) conduct a study on the effects of military helicopter noise 
    on National Capital Region communities and individuals; and
        (2) develop recommendations for the reduction of the effects of 
    military helicopter noise on individuals, structures, and property 
    values in the National Capital Region.
    (b) Focus.--In conducting the study under subsection (a), the 
Secretary and the Administrator shall focus on air traffic control, 
airspace design, airspace management, and types of aircraft to address 
helicopter noise problems and shall take into account the needs of law 
enforcement, emergency, and military operations.
    (c) Consideration of Views.--In conducting the study under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider the views of 
representatives of--
        (1) members of the Armed Forces;
        (2) law enforcement agencies;
        (3) community stakeholders, including residents and local 
    government officials; and
        (4) organizations with an interest in reducing military 
    helicopter noise.
    (d) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
    report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a).
        (2) Availability to the public.--The Secretary shall make the 
    report required under paragraph (1) publicly available.
SEC. 1074. INDEPENDENT REVIEW OF UNITED STATES MILITARY STRATEGY AND 
FORCE POSTURE IN THE UNITED STATES PACIFIC COMMAND AREA OF 
RESPONSIBILITY.
    (a) Independent Review.--
        (1) In general.--In fiscal year 2018, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall commission an independent review of United States policy in 
    the Indo-Asia-Pacific region, with a focus on issues expected to be 
    critical during the ten-year period beginning on the date of such 
    review, including the national security interests and military 
    strategy of the United States in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
        (2) Conduct of review.--The review conducted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) shall be conducted by an independent organization 
    that has--
            (A) recognized credentials and expertise in national 
        security and military affairs; and
            (B) access to policy experts throughout the United States 
        and from the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
        (3) Elements.--Each review conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following elements:
            (A) An assessment of the risks to United States national 
        security interests in the United States Pacific Command area of 
        responsibility during the ten-year period beginning on the date 
        of such review as a result of changes in the security 
        environment.
            (B) An assessment of the current and planned United States 
        force posture adjustments with respect to the Indo-Asia-Pacific 
        region.
            (C) An evaluation of any key capability gaps and shortfalls 
        of the United States in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region, including 
        undersea warfare (including submarines), naval and maritime, 
        ballistic missile defense, cyber, munitions, anti-access area 
        denial, land-force power projection, and intelligence, 
        surveillance, and reconnaissance capabilities.
            (D) An analysis of the willingness and capacity of allies, 
        partners, and regional organizations to contribute to the 
        security and stability of the Indo-Asia-Pacific region, 
        including potential required adjustments to United States 
        military strategy based on that analysis.
            (E) An evaluation of theater security cooperation efforts 
        of the United States Pacific Command in the context of current 
        and projected threats, and desired capabilities and priorities 
        of the United States and its allies and partners.
            (F) An evaluation of the seams between United States 
        Pacific Command and adjacent geographic combatant commands, 
        including an appraisal of the Arctic ambitions of actors in the 
        Indo-Asia-Pacific region in the context of current and 
        projected capabilities, and recommendations to mitigate the 
        effects of those seams.
            (G) The views of noted policy leaders and regional experts, 
        including military commanders, in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Submittal to secretary of defense.--Not later than 180 days 
    after commencing the review under subsection (a), the independent 
    organization conducting the review shall submit to the Secretary of 
    Defense a report containing the findings of the review. The report 
    shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain an 
    classified annex.
        (2) Submittal to congress.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    date of receipt of a report required by paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
    report, together with any comments on the report that the Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
SEC. 1075. ASSESSMENT OF THE JOINT GROUND FORCES OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the 
Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Chief of Staff of the Army, 
and the Commandant of the Marine Corps, shall provide for and oversee 
an assessment of the joint ground forces of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on the assessment described in subsection (a). The report shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of any gaps in the capabilities and 
    capacities of the joint ground forces that threaten the successful 
    execution of decisive operational maneuver by the joint ground 
    forces.
        (2) Recommendations for actions to be taken to eliminate or 
    otherwise address such gaps in capabilities or capacities.
        (3) An assessment by each of the Chief of Staff of the Army and 
    the Commandant of the Marine Corps of any specific gaps in the 
    capability and capacity of the Army and Marine Corps, respectively, 
    that threaten the successful execution of decisive operational 
    maneuver.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1081. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
amended as follows:
        (1) Section 130h is amended by striking ``subsection (a) and 
    (b)'' both places it appears and inserting ``subsections (a) and 
    (b)''.
        (2) Section 187(a)(2)(C) is amended by striking ``Acquisition, 
    Logistics, and Technology'' and inserting ``Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics''.
        (3) Section 196(c)(1)(A)(ii) is amended by striking ``section 
    139(i)'' and inserting ``section 139(j)''.
        (4) Subsection (b)(1)(B) of section 1415 is amended by adding a 
    period at the end of clause (ii).
        (5) Section 1705(g)(1) is amended by striking ``of of'' and 
    inserting ``of''.
        (6) Section 2222 is amended--
            (A) in subsection (d)(1)(B), by inserting ``to'' before 
        ``eliminate'';
            (B) in subsection (g)(1)(E), by inserting ``the system'' 
        before ``is in compliance''; and
            (C) in subsection (i)(5), by striking ``program'' in the 
        heading.
        (7) Subsection (d) of section 2431b is amended to read as 
    follows:
    ``(d) Definitions.--
        ``(1) Concurrency.--The term `concurrency' means, with respect 
    to an acquisition strategy, the combination or overlap of program 
    phases or activities.
        ``(2) Major defense acquisition program and major system.--The 
    terms `major defense acquisition program' and `major system' have 
    the meanings provided in section 2431a of this title.''.
    (b) Amendments Related to Elimination of Title 50 Appendix.--
        (1) Military selective service act citation changes.--
            (A) Title 10, united states code.--Title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended as follows:
                (i) Section 101(d)(6)(B)(v) is amended by striking 
            ``(50 U.S.C. App. 460(b)(2))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
            3809(b)(2))''.
                (ii) Section 513(c) is amended--

                    (I) by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.)'' 
                and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.)''; and
                    (II) by inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3806(c)(2)(A))'' 
                after ``of that Act''.

                (iii) Section 523(b)(7) is amended by striking ``(50 
            U.S.C. App. 460(b)(2))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
            3809(b)(2))''.
                (iv) Section 651(a) is amended by striking ``(50'' and 
            all that follows through ``shall serve'' and inserting 
            ``(50 U.S.C. 3806(d)(1))''.
                (v) Section 671(c)(1) is amended by striking ``(50 
            U.S.C. App. 454(a))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
            3803(a))''.
                (vi) Section 1475(a)(5)(B) is amended by striking ``(50 
            U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3801 
            et seq.)''.
                (vii) Section 12103 is amended--

                    (I) in subsections (b) and (d), by striking ``(50 
                U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.)'' both places it appears and 
                inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.)''; and
                    (II) in subsection (d), by striking ``section 
                6(c)(2)(A)(ii) and (iii) of such Act'' and inserting 
                ``clauses (ii) and (iii) of section 6(c)(2)(A) of such 
                Act (50 U.S.C. 3806(c)(2)(A))''.

                (viii) Section 12104(a) is amended by striking ``(50 
            U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.)'' both places it appears and 
            inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.)''.
                (ix) Section 12208(a) is amended by striking ``(50 
            U.S.C. App. 451 et seq.)'' both places it appears and 
            inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.)''.
            (B) Title 37, united states code.--Section 209(a)(1) of 
        title 37, United States Code, is amended by striking ``(50 
        U.S.C. App. 456(d)(1))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
        3806(d)(1))''.
        (2) Servicemembers civil relief act citation changes.--Title 
    10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 987 is amended--
                (i) in subsection (e)(2), by inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
            3901 et seq.)'' before the semicolon; and
                (ii) in subsection (g), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 
            527)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3937)''.
            (B) Section 1408(b)(1)(D) is amended by striking ``(50 
        U.S.C. App. 501 et seq.)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 3901 et 
        seq.)''.
        (3) Export administration act of 1979 citation changes.--Title 
    10, United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 130(a) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 
        2401-2420)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4601 et seq.)''.
            (B) Section 2249a(a)(1) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
        App. 2405(j)(1)(A))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
        4605(j)(1)(A))''.
            (C) Section 2327 is amended--
                (i) in subsection (a), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 
            2405(j)(1)(A))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
            4605(j)(1)(A))''; and
                (ii) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
            App. 2405(j)(1)(A))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 
            4605(j)(1)(A))''.
            (D) Section 2410i(a) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
        App. 2402(5)(A))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4602(5)(A))''.
            (E) Section 7430(e) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
        App. 2401 et seq.)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4601 et 
        seq.)''.
        (4) Defense production act of 1950 citation changes.--Title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended as follows:
            (A) Section 139c is amended--
                (i) in subsection (b)--

                    (I) in paragraph (11), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
                App. 2171)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4567)''; and
                    (II) in paragraph (12)--

                        (aa) by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 2062(b))'' 
                    and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4502(b))''; and
                        (bb) by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 2061 et 
                    seq.)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4501 et seq.)''; 
                    and
                (ii) in subsection (c), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 
            2170(k))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4565(k))''.
            (B) Section 2537(c) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
        App. 2170(a))'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4565(a))''.
            (C) Section 9511(6) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
        App. 2071)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4511)''.
            (D) Section 9512(e) is amended by striking ``(50 U.S.C. 
        App. 2071)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4511)''.
        (5) Merchant ship sales act of 1946 citation changes.--Section 
    2218 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (c)(1)(E), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 
        1744)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4405)''; and
            (B) in subsection (k)(3)(B), by striking ``(50 U.S.C. App. 
        1744)'' and inserting ``(50 U.S.C. 4405)''.
    (c) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.--
Effective as of November 25, 2015, and as if included therein as 
enacted, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92) is amended as follows:
        (1) Section 563(a) is amended by striking ``Section 5(c)(5)'' 
    and inserting ``Section 5(c)(2)''.
        (2) Section 804(d)(3) is amended by inserting ``within 5 
    business days after such transfer'' before the period at the end of 
    the first sentence.
        (3) Section 809(e)(2)(A) is amended by striking ``repealed'' 
    and inserting ``rescinded''.
        (4) Section 883(a)(2) is amended by striking ``such chapter'' 
    and inserting ``chapter 131 of such title''.
        (5) Section 883 is amended by adding at the end the following 
    new subsection:
    ``(f) Conforming Amendments.--
        ``(1) Effective on the effective date specified in subsection 
    (a)(1) of section 901 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
    113-291; 128 Stat. 3462; 10 U.S.C. 132a note), section 2222 of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended--
            ``(A) by striking `Deputy Chief Management Officer of the 
        Department of Defense' each place it appears in subsections 
        (c)(2), (e)(1), (g)(2)(A), (g)(2)(B)(ii), and (i)(5)(B) and 
        inserting `Under Secretary of Defense for Business Management 
        and Information'; and
            ``(B) by striking `Deputy Chief Management Officer' in 
        subsection (f)(1) and inserting `Under Secretary of Defense for 
        Business Management and Information'.
        ``(2) The second paragraph (3) of section 901(k) of such Act 
    (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3468; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note) is 
    repealed.''.
        (6) Section 1079(a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Annual Report on Prizes for Advanced Technology 
Achievements.--Section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        ``(1) by striking subsection (f); and
        ``(2) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).''.
        (7) Section 1086(f)(11)(A) is amended by striking ``Not later 
    than\ one year'' and inserting ``Not later than one year''.
    (d) Coordination With Other Amendments Made by This Act.--For 
purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of this Act other 
than this section, the amendments made by this section shall be treated 
as having been enacted immediately before any such amendments by other 
provisions of this Act.
SEC. 1082. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM AMOUNT AVAILABLE FOR EQUIPMENT, 
SERVICES, AND SUPPLIES PROVIDED FOR HUMANITARIAN DEMINING ASSISTANCE.
    Section 407(c)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$10,000,000'' and inserting ``$15,000,000''.
SEC. 1083. LIQUIDATION OF UNPAID CREDITS ACCRUED AS A RESULT OF 
TRANSACTIONS UNDER A CROSS-SERVICING AGREEMENT.
    (a) Liquidation of Unpaid Credits.--Section 2345 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(c)(1) Any credits of the United States accrued as a result of 
the provision of logistic support, supplies, and services under the 
authority of this subchapter that remain unliquidated more than 18 
months after the date of delivery of the logistic support, supplies, or 
services may, at the option of the Secretary of Defense, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, be liquidated by offsetting the 
credits against any amount owed by the Department of Defense, pursuant 
to a transaction or transactions concluded under the authority of this 
subchapter, to the government or international organization to which 
the logistic support, supplies, or services were provided by the United 
States.
    ``(2) The amount of any credits offset pursuant to paragraph (1) 
shall be credited as specified in section 2346 of this title as if it 
were a receipt of the United States.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Subsection (c) of section 2345 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with 
respect to credits accrued by the United States that--
        (1) were accrued prior to, and remain unpaid as of, the date of 
    the enactment of this Act; or
        (2) are accrued after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1084. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO MANAGEMENT OF 
MILITARY TECHNICIANS.
    (a) Conversion of Certain Military Technician (dual Status) 
Positions.--Subsection (a) of section 1053 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
981; 10 U.S.C. 10216 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (1):
        ``(1) In general.--By not later than October 1, 2017, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall convert not fewer than 20 percent of all 
    military technician positions to positions filled by individuals 
    who are employed under section 3101 of title 5, United States Code, 
    or section 1601 of title 10, United States Code, and are not 
    military technicians. The positions to be converted are described 
    in paragraph (2).'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in the report'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``by the Army Reserve, the Air Force 
    Reserve, the National Guard Bureau, State adjutants general, and 
    the Secretary of Defense in the course of reviewing all military 
    technician positions for purposes of implementing this section.''; 
    and
        (3) in paragraph (3), by striking ``may fill'' and inserting 
    ``shall fill''.
    (b) Conversion of Army Reserve, Air Force Reserve, and National 
Guard Non-dual Status Positions.--Subsection (e) of section 10217 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Conversion of Positions.--(1) No individual may be newly 
hired or employed, or rehired or reemployed, as a non-dual status 
technician for purposes of this section after September 30, 2017.
    ``(2) By not later than October 1, 2017, the Secretary of Defense 
shall convert all non-dual status technicians to positions filled by 
individuals who are employed under section 3101 of title 5 or section 
1601 of this title and are not military technicians.
    ``(3) In the case of a position converted under paragraph (2) for 
which there is an incumbent employee on October 1, 2017, the Secretary 
shall fill that position, as converted, with the incumbent employee 
without regard to any requirement concerning competition or competitive 
hiring procedures.
    ``(4) Any individual newly hired or employed, or rehired or 
employed, to a position required to be filled by reason of paragraph 
(1) shall an individual employed in such position under section 3101 of 
title 5 or section 1601 of this title.''.
    (c) Report on Conversion of Military Technician Positions to 
Personnel Performing Active Guard and Reserve Duty.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the Secretary of 
    Defense, shall in consultation with the Chief of the National Guard 
    Bureau, submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
    and the House of Representatives a report on the feasibility and 
    advisability of converting any remaining military technicians (dual 
    status) to personnel performing active Guard and Reserve duty under 
    section 328 of title 32, United States Code, or other applicable 
    provisions of law. The report shall include the following:
            (A) An analysis of the fully-burdened costs of the 
        conversion taking into account the new modernized military 
        retirement system.
            (B) An assessment of the ratio of members of the Armed 
        Forces performing active Guard and Reserve duty and civilian 
        employees of the Department of Defense under title 5, United 
        States Code, required to best contribute to the readiness of 
        the National Guard and the Reserves.
        (2) Active guard and reserve duty defined.--In this subsection, 
    the term ``active Guard and Reserve duty'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 101(d)(6) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1085. STREAMLINING OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL.
    (a) In General.--Section 101 of the National Security Act of 1947 
(50 U.S.C. 3021) is amended to read as follows:
    ``SEC. 101. NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL.
    ``(a) National Security Council.--There is a council known as the 
National Security Council (in this section referred to as the 
`Council').
    ``(b) Functions.--Consistent with the direction of the President, 
the functions of the Council shall be to--
        ``(1) advise the President with respect to the integration of 
    domestic, foreign, and military policies relating to the national 
    security so as to enable the Armed Forces and the other departments 
    and agencies of the United States Government to cooperate more 
    effectively in matters involving the national security;
        ``(2) assess and appraise the objectives, commitments, and 
    risks of the United States in relation to the actual and potential 
    military power of the United States, and make recommendations 
    thereon to the President; and
        ``(3) make recommendations to the President concerning policies 
    on matters of common interest to the departments and agencies of 
    the United States Government concerned with the national security.
    ``(c) Membership.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Council consists of the President, the 
    Vice President, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, 
    the Secretary of Energy, and such other officers of the United 
    States Government as the President may designate.
        ``(2) Attendance and participation in meetings.--The President 
    may designate such other officers of the United States Government 
    as the President considers appropriate, including the Director of 
    National Intelligence, the Director of National Drug Control 
    Policy, and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to attend 
    and participate in meetings of the Council.
    ``(d) Presiding Officers.--At meetings of the Council, the 
President shall preside or, in the absence of the President, a member 
of the Council designated by the President shall preside.
    ``(e) Staff.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Council shall have a staff headed by a 
    civilian executive secretary appointed by the President.
        ``(2) Staff.--Consistent with the direction of the President 
    and subject to paragraph (3), the executive secretary may, subject 
    to the civil service laws and chapter 51 and subchapter III of 
    chapter 53 of title 5, United States Code, appoint and fix the 
    compensation of such personnel as may be necessary to perform such 
    duties as may be prescribed by the President in connection with 
    performance of the functions of the Council.
        ``(3) Number of professional staff.--The professional staff for 
    which this subsection provides shall not exceed 200 persons, 
    including persons employed by, assigned to, detailed to, under 
    contract to serve on, or otherwise serving or affiliated with the 
    staff. The limitation in this paragraph does not apply to personnel 
    serving substantially in support or administrative positions.
    ``(f) Special Advisor to the President on International Religious 
Freedom.--It is the sense of Congress that there should be within the 
staff of the Council a Special Adviser to the President on 
International Religious Freedom, whose position should be comparable to 
that of a director within the Executive Office of the President. The 
Special Adviser should serve as a resource for executive branch 
officials, compiling and maintaining information on the facts and 
circumstances of violations of religious freedom (as defined in section 
3 of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 (22 U.S.C. 6402)), 
and making policy recommendations. The Special Adviser should serve as 
liaison with the Ambassador at Large for International Religious 
Freedom, the United States Commission on International Religious 
Freedom, Congress and, as advisable, religious nongovernmental 
organizations.''.
    (b) Effective Date of Limitation on Number of Professional Staff.--
The limitation on the number of professional staff of the National 
Security Council specified in subsection (e)(3) of section 101 of the 
National Security Act of 1947, as amended by subsection (a) of this 
section, shall take effect on the date that is 18 months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1086. NATIONAL BIODEFENSE STRATEGY.
    (a) Strategy and Implementation Plan Required.--The Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, and the Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly 
develop a national biodefense strategy and associated implementation 
plan, which shall include a review and assessment of biodefense 
policies, practices, programs and initiatives. Such Secretaries shall 
review and, as appropriate, revise the strategy biennially.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy and associated implementation plan 
required under subsection (a) shall include each of the following:
        (1) An inventory and assessment of all existing strategies, 
    plans, policies, laws, and interagency agreements related to 
    biodefense, including prevention, deterrence, preparedness, 
    detection, response, attribution, recovery, and mitigation.
        (2) A description of the biological threats, including 
    biological warfare, bioterrorism, naturally occurring infectious 
    diseases, and accidental exposures.
        (3) A description of the current programs, efforts, or 
    activities of the United States Government with respect to 
    preventing the acquisition, proliferation, and use of a biological 
    weapon, preventing an accidental or naturally occurring biological 
    outbreak, and mitigating the effects of a biological epidemic.
        (4) A description of the roles and responsibilities of the 
    Executive Agencies, including internal and external coordination 
    procedures, in identifying and sharing information related to, 
    warning of, and protection against, acts of terrorism using 
    biological agents and weapons and accidental or naturally occurring 
    biological outbreaks.
        (5) An articulation of related or required interagency 
    capabilities and whole-of-Government activities required to support 
    the national biodefense strategy.
        (6) Recommendations for strengthening and improving the current 
    biodefense capabilities, authorities, and command structures of the 
    United States Government.
        (7) Recommendations for improving and formalizing interagency 
    coordination and support mechanisms with respect to providing a 
    robust national biodefense.
        (8) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
    of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
    and the Secretary of Agriculture determine necessary.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than 275 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees the strategy and associated implementation 
plan required by subsection (a). The strategy and implementation plan 
shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
annex.
    (d) Briefings.--Not later than March 1, 2017, and annually 
thereafter until March 1, 2019, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary 
of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and 
the Secretary of Agriculture shall provide to the Committee on Armed 
Services of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
Agriculture of the House of Representatives a joint briefing on the 
strategy developed under subsection (a) and the status of the 
implementation of such strategy.
    (e) GAO Review.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
submittal of the strategy and implementation plan under subsection (c), 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of 
the strategy and implementation plan to analyze gaps and resources 
mapped against the requirements of the National Biodefense Strategy and 
existing United States biodefense policy documents.
    (f) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
    Pensions of the Senate.
        (3) The Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
    Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
        (4) The Committee on Agriculture of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and 
    Forestry of the Senate.
SEC. 1087. GLOBAL CULTURAL KNOWLEDGE NETWORK.
    (a) Program Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army shall carry out 
a program to support the socio-cultural understanding needs of the 
Department of the Army, to be known as the Global Cultural Knowledge 
Network.
    (b) Goals.--The Global Cultural Knowledge Network shall support the 
following goals:
        (1) Provide socio-cultural analysis support to any unit 
    deployed, or preparing to deploy, to an exercise or operation in 
    the assigned region of responsibility of the unit being supported.
        (2) Make recommendations or support policy or doctrine 
    development to increase the social science expertise of military 
    and civilian personnel of the Department of the Army.
        (3) Provide reimbursable support to other military departments 
    or Federal agencies if requested through an operational needs 
    request process.
    (c) Elements of the Program.--The Global Cultural Knowledge Network 
shall include the following elements:
        (1) A center in the continental United States (referred to in 
    this section as a ``reach-back center'') to support requests for 
    information, research, and analysis.
        (2) Outreach to academic institutions and other Federal 
    agencies involved in social science research to increase the 
    network of resources for the reach-back center.
        (3) Training with operational units during annual training 
    exercises or during pre-deployment training.
        (4) The training, contracting, and human resources capacity to 
    rapidly respond to contingencies in which social science expertise 
    is requested by operational commanders through an operational needs 
    request process.
    (d) Directive Required.--The Secretary of the Army shall issue a 
directive within one year after the date of the enactment of this Act 
for the governance of the Global Cultural Knowledge Network, including 
oversight and process controls for auditing the activities of personnel 
of the Network, the employment of the Global Cultural Knowledge Network 
by operational forces, and processes for requesting support by 
operational Army units and other Department of Defense and Federal 
entities.
    (e) Prohibition on Deployments Under Global Cultural Knowledge 
Network.--
        (1) Prohibition.--The Secretary of the Army may not deploy 
    social scientists of the Global Cultural Knowledge Network in a 
    conflict zone.
        (2) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Army may waive the 
    prohibition in paragraph (1) if the Secretary submits, at least 10 
    days before the deployment, to the Committees on Armed Services of 
    the House of Representatives and the Senate--
            (A) notice of the waiver; and
            (B) a certification that there is a compelling national 
        security interest for the deployment or there will be a benefit 
        to the safety and welfare of members of the Armed Forces from 
        the deployment.
        (3) Elements of waiver notice.--A waiver notice under this 
    subsection also shall include the following:
            (A) The operational unit, or units, requesting support, 
        including the location or locations where the social scientists 
        are to be deployed.
            (B) The number of Global Cultural Knowledge Network 
        personnel to be deployed and the anticipated duration of such 
        deployments.
            (C) The anticipated resource needs for such deployment.
SEC. 1088. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING CONNECTICUT'S SUBMARINE CENTURY.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) On March 2, 1867, Congress enacted a naval appropriations 
    Act that authorized the Secretary of the Navy to ``receive and 
    accept a deed of gift, when offered by the State of Connecticut, of 
    a tract of land with not less than one mile of shore front on the 
    Thames River near New London, Connecticut, to be held by the United 
    States for naval purposes''.
        (2) The people of Connecticut and the towns and cities in the 
    southeastern region of Connecticut subsequently gifted land to 
    establish a military installation to fulfil the Nation's need for a 
    naval facility on the Atlantic coast.
        (3) On April 11, 1868, the Navy accepted the deed of gift of 
    land from Connecticut to establish a naval yard and storage depot 
    along the eastern shore of the Thames River in Groton, Connecticut.
        (4) Between 1868 and 1912, the New London Navy Yard supported a 
    diverse range of missions, including berthing inactive Civil War 
    era ironclad warships and serving as a coaling station for 
    refueling naval ships traveling in New England waters.
        (5) Congress rejected the Navy's proposal to close New London 
    Navy Yard in 1912, following an impassioned effort by Congressman 
    Edwin W. Higgins, who stated that ``this action proposed is not 
    only unjust but unreasonable and unsound as a military 
    proposition''.
        (6) The outbreak of World War I and the enemy use of submarines 
    to sink allied military and civilian ships in the Atlantic sparked 
    a new focus on developing submarine capabilities in the United 
    States.
        (7) October 18, 1915, marked the arrival at the New London Navy 
    Yard of the submarines G-1, G-2, and G-4 under the care of the 
    tender USS Ozark and the arrival of submarines E-1, D-1, and D-3 
    under the care of the tender USS Tonopah. November 1, 1915, marked 
    the arrival of the first ship built as a submarine tender, the USS 
    Fulton (AS-1).
        (8) On June 21, 1916, Commander Yeates Stirling assumed the 
    command of the newly designated Naval Submarine Base New London, 
    the New London Submarine Flotilla, and the Submarine School.
        (9) In the 100 years since the arrival of the first submarines 
    to the base, Naval Submarine Base New London has grown to occupy 
    more than 680 acres along the east side of the Thames River, with 
    more than 160 major facilities, 15 nuclear submarines, and more 
    than 70 tenant commands and activities, including the Submarine 
    Learning Center, Naval Submarine School, the Naval Submarine 
    Medical Research Laboratory, the Naval Undersea Medical Institute, 
    and the newly established Undersea Warfighting Development Center.
        (10) In addition to being the site of the first submarine base 
    in the United States, Connecticut was home to the foremost 
    submarine manufacturers of the time, the Lake Torpedo Boat Company 
    in Bridgeport and the Electric Boat Company in Groton, which later 
    became General Dynamics Electric Boat.
        (11) General Dynamics Electric Boat, its talented workforce, 
    and its Connecticut-based and nationwide network of suppliers have 
    delivered more than 200 submarines from its current location in 
    Groton, Connecticut, including the first nuclear-powered submarine, 
    the USS Nautilus (SSN 571), and nearly half of the nuclear 
    submarines ever built by the United States.
        (12) The Submarine Force Museum, located adjacent to Naval 
    Submarine Base New London in Groton, Connecticut, is the only 
    submarine museum operated by the United States Navy and today 
    serves as the primary repository for artifacts, documents, and 
    photographs relating to the bold and courageous history of the 
    Submarine Force and highlights as its core exhibit the Historic 
    Ship Nautilus (SSN 571) following her retirement from service.
        (13) Reflecting the close ties between Connecticut and the Navy 
    that began with the gift of land that established the base, the 
    State of Connecticut has set aside $40,000,000 in funding for 
    critical infrastructure investments to support the mission of the 
    base, including construction of a new dive locker building, 
    expansion of the Submarine Learning Center, and modernization of 
    energy infrastructure.
        (14) On September 29, 2015, Connecticut Governor Dannel Malloy 
    designated October 2015 through October 2016 as Connecticut's 
    Submarine Century, a year-long observance that celebrates 100 years 
    of submarine activity in Connecticut, including the Town of 
    Groton's distinction as the Submarine Capital of the World, to 
    coincide with the centennial anniversary of the establishment of 
    Naval Submarine Base New London and the Naval Submarine School.
        (15) Whereas Naval Submarine Base New London still proudly 
    proclaims its motto of ``The First and Finest''.
        (16) Congressman Higgins' statement before Congress in 1912 
    that ``Connecticut stands ready, as she always has, to bear her 
    part of the burdens of the national defense'' remains true today.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--Congress--
        (1) commends the longstanding dedication and contribution to 
    the Navy and submarine force by the people of Connecticut, both 
    through the initial deed of gift that established what would become 
    Naval Submarine Base New London and through their ongoing 
    commitment to support the mission of the base and the Navy 
    personnel assigned to it;
        (2) honors the submariners who have trained and served at Naval 
    Submarine Base New London throughout its history in support of the 
    Nation's security and undersea superiority;
        (3) recognizes the contribution of the industry and workforce 
    of Connecticut in designing, building, and sustaining the Navy's 
    submarine fleet; and
        (4) encourages the recognition of Connecticut's Submarine 
    Century by Congress, the Navy, and the American people by honoring 
    the contribution of the people of Connecticut to the defense of the 
    United States and the important role of the submarine force in 
    safeguarding the security of the United States for more than a 
    century.
SEC. 1089. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE REPORTING OF THE MV-22 
MISHAP IN MARANA, ARIZONA, ON APRIL 8, 2000.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) in the report accompanying H.R. 1735 of the 114th Congress 
    (House Report 114-102), the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    House of Representatives encouraged the Secretary of Defense to 
    ``publicly clarify the causes of the MV-22 mishap at Marana 
    Northwest Regional Airport, Arizona, in a way consistent with the 
    results of all investigations as soon as possible'';
        (2) the Deputy Secretary of Defense Robert O. Work did an 
    excellent job reviewing the investigations of such mishap and 
    concluded that there was a misrepresentation of facts by the media 
    which incorrectly identified pilot error as the cause of the mishap 
    which the Deputy Secretary publicly made known in March 2016; and
        (3) Congress is grateful for the successful conclusion to this 
    tragic situation.
SEC. 1090. COST OF WARS.
    The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Commissioner of 
the Internal Revenue Service and the Director of the Bureau of Economic 
Analysis, shall post on the public Internet website of the Department 
of Defense the costs to each United States taxpayer of each of the wars 
in Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria.
SEC. 1091. RECONNAISSANCE STRIKE GROUP MATTERS.
    (a) Modeling of Alternative Army Design and Operational Concept.--
        (1) Analyses required.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff and the Chief of Staff of the Army, in consultation with the 
    commanding general of the United States European Command, shall 
    each conduct a separate analysis of alternative Army operational 
    concepts and organizational designs, known as the Reconnaissance 
    Strike Group, as recommended by the National Commission on the 
    Future of the United States Army.
        (2) Assessment of analyses.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
    of Staff and Chief of Staff of the Army shall then each separately 
    assess the operational merits, feasible force mix under programmed 
    end-strength, estimated costs for assessed potential force 
    structure changes, and strategic force sufficiency and risk of each 
    analysis conducted under paragraph (1).
    (b) Reports Required.--Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
and the Chief of Staff of the Army shall each submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives a separate 
report on the alternative designs and operational concepts analyzed 
under subsection (a)(1). Each such report shall include an assessment 
of the merits and sufficiency of such designs and concepts, the 
potential for future experimentation (such as a follow-on pilot 
program), and the recommendation of the Chairman and Chief of Staff, as 
the case may be, regarding the Reconnaissance Strike Group.
    (c) Independent Assessments Required.--Before submittal of the 
reports required under subsection (b), the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs 
of Staff and the Chief of Staff of the Army shall each select a 
Federally Funded Research and Development Center to review and evaluate 
each report. The review and evaluation of each report shall be 
submitted to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and House 
of Representatives together with the reports under subsection (b).
SEC. 1092. BORDER SECURITY METRICS.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Consequence delivery system.--The term ``Consequence 
    Delivery System'' means the series of consequences applied by U.S. 
    Border Patrol in collaboration with other Federal agencies to 
    persons unlawfully entering the United States, in order to prevent 
    unlawful border crossing recidivism.
        (3) Got away.--The term ``got away'' means an unlawful border 
    crosser who--
            (A) is directly or indirectly observed making an unlawful 
        entry into the United States;
            (B) is not apprehended; and
            (C) is not a turn back.
        (4) Known maritime migrant flow.--The term ``known maritime 
    migrant flow'' means the sum of the number of undocumented 
    migrants--
            (A) interdicted in the waters over which the United States 
        has jurisdiction;
            (B) identified at sea either directly or indirectly, but 
        not interdicted;
            (C) if not described in subparagraph (A) or (B), who were 
        otherwise reported, with a significant degree of certainty, as 
        having entered, or attempted to enter, the United States 
        through the maritime border.
        (5) Major violator.--The term ``major violator'' means a person 
    or entity that has engaged in serious criminal activities at any 
    land, air, or sea port of entry, including the following:
            (A) Possession of illicit drugs.
            (B) Smuggling of prohibited products.
            (C) Human smuggling.
            (D) Possession of illegal weapons.
            (E) Use of fraudulent documents.
            (F) Any other offense that is serious enough to result in 
        an arrest.
        (6) Secretary.--The term ``the Secretary'' means the Secretary 
    of Homeland Security.
        (7) Situational awareness.--The term ``situational awareness'' 
    means knowledge and understanding of current unlawful cross-border 
    activity, including the following:
            (A) Threats and trends concerning illicit trafficking and 
        unlawful crossings.
            (B) The ability to forecast future shifts in such threats 
        and trends.
            (C) The ability to evaluate such threats and trends at a 
        level sufficient to create actionable plans.
            (D) The operational capability to conduct persistent and 
        integrated surveillance of the international borders of the 
        United States.
        (8) Transit zone.--The term ``transit zone'' means the sea 
    corridors of the western Atlantic Ocean, the Gulf of Mexico, the 
    Caribbean Sea, and the eastern Pacific Ocean through which 
    undocumented migrants and illicit drugs transit, either directly or 
    indirectly, to the United States.
        (9) Turn back.--The term ``turn back'' means an unlawful border 
    crosser who, after making an unlawful entry into the United States, 
    responds to United States enforcement efforts by returning promptly 
    to the country from which such crosser entered.
        (10) Unlawful border crossing effectiveness rate.--The term 
    ``unlawful border crossing effectiveness rate'' means the 
    percentage that results from dividing the number of apprehensions 
    and turn backs by the sum of the number of apprehensions, estimated 
    undetected unlawful entries, turn backs, and got aways.
        (11) Unlawful entry.--The term ``unlawful entry'' means an 
    unlawful border crosser who enters the United States and is not 
    apprehended by a border security component of the Department of 
    Homeland Security.
    (b) Metrics for Securing the Border Between Ports of Entry.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop metrics, 
    informed by situational awareness, to measure the effectiveness of 
    security between ports of entry. The Secretary shall annually 
    implement the metrics developed under this subsection, which shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Estimates, using alternative methodologies where 
        appropriate, including recidivism data, survey data, known-flow 
        data, and technologically-measured data, of the following:
                (i) The rate of apprehension of attempted unlawful 
            border crossers.
                (ii) The number of detected unlawful entries.
                (iii) The number of estimated undetected unlawful 
            entries.
                (iv) Turn backs.
                (v) Got aways.
            (B) A measurement of situational awareness achieved in each 
        U.S. Border Patrol sector.
            (C) An unlawful border crossing effectiveness rate in each 
        U.S. Border Patrol sector.
            (D) A probability of detection rate, which compares the 
        estimated total unlawful border crossing attempts not detected 
        by U.S. Border Patrol to the unlawful border crossing 
        effectiveness rate under subparagraph (C), as informed by 
        subparagraph (A).
            (E) The number of apprehensions in each U.S. Border Patrol 
        sector.
            (F) The number of apprehensions of unaccompanied alien 
        children, and the nationality of such children, in each U.S. 
        Border Patrol sector.
            (G) The number of apprehensions of family units, and the 
        nationality of such family units, in each U.S. Border Patrol 
        sector.
            (H) An illicit drugs seizure rate for drugs seized by U.S. 
        Border Patrol between ports of entry, which compares the ratio 
        of the amount and type of illicit drugs seized between ports of 
        entry in any fiscal year to the average of the amount and type 
        of illicit drugs seized between ports of entry in the 
        immediately preceding five fiscal years.
            (I) Estimates of the impact of the Consequence Delivery 
        System on the rate of recidivism of unlawful border crossers 
        over multiple fiscal years.
            (J) An examination of each consequence under the 
        Consequence Delivery System referred to in subparagraph (I), 
        including the following:
                (i) Voluntary return.
                (ii) Warrant of arrest or notice to appear.
                (iii) Expedited removal.
                (iv) Reinstatement of removal.
                (v) Alien transfer exit program.
                (vi) Criminal consequence program.
                (vii) Standard prosecution.
                (viii) Operation Against Smugglers Initiative on Safety 
            and Security.
        (2) Metrics consultation.--To ensure that authoritative data 
    sources are utilized in the development of the metrics described in 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) consult with the heads of the appropriate components of 
        the Department of Homeland Security; and
            (B) where appropriate, with the heads of other agencies, 
        including the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department 
        of Health and Human Services and the Executive Office for 
        Immigration Review of the Department of Justice.
        (3) Manner of collection.--The data collected to inform the 
    metrics developed in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be 
    collected and reported in a consistent and standardized manner 
    across all U.S. Border Patrol sectors, informed by situational 
    awareness.
    (c) Metrics for Securing the Border at Ports of Entry.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop metrics, 
    informed by situational awareness, to measure the effectiveness of 
    security at ports of entry. The Secretary shall annually implement 
    the metrics developed under this subsection, which shall include 
    the following:
            (A) Estimates, using alternative methodologies where 
        appropriate, including recidivism data, survey data, and 
        randomized secondary screening data, of the following:
                (i) Total inadmissible travelers who attempt to, or 
            successfully, enter the United States at a port of entry.
                (ii) The rate of refusals and interdictions for 
            travelers who attempt to, or successfully, enter the United 
            States at a port of entry.
                (iii) The number of unlawful entries at a port of 
            entry.
            (B) The amount and type of illicit drugs seized by the 
        Office of Field Operations of U.S. Customs and Border 
        Protection at ports of entry during the previous fiscal year.
            (C) An illicit drugs seizure rate for drugs seized by the 
        Office of Field Operations, which compares the ratio of the 
        amount and type of illicit drugs seized by the Office of Field 
        Operations in any fiscal year to the average of the amount and 
        type of illicit drugs seized by the Office of Field Operations 
        in the immediately preceding five fiscal years.
            (D) The number of infractions related to travelers and 
        cargo committed by major violators who are interdicted by the 
        Office of Field Operations at ports of entry, and the estimated 
        number of such infractions committed by major violators who are 
        not so interdicted.
            (E) In consultation with the heads of the Office of 
        National Drug Control Policy and the United States Southern 
        Command, a cocaine seizure effectiveness rate, which is the 
        percentage resulting from dividing the amount of cocaine seized 
        by the Office of Field Operations by the total estimated 
        cocaine flow rate at ports of entry along the United States 
        land border with Mexico and Canada.
            (F) A measurement of how border security operations affect 
        crossing times, including the following:
                (i) A wait time ratio that compares the average wait 
            times to total commercial and private vehicular traffic 
            volumes at each land port of entry.
                (ii) An infrastructure capacity utilization rate that 
            measures traffic volume against the physical and staffing 
            capacity at each land port of entry.
                (iii) A secondary examination rate that measures the 
            frequency of secondary examinations at each land port of 
            entry.
                (iv) An enforcement rate that measures the 
            effectiveness of such secondary examinations at detecting 
            major violators.
            (G) A seaport scanning rate that includes the following:
                (i) The number of all cargo containers that are 
            considered potentially ``high-risk'', as determined by the 
            Executive Assistant Commissioner of the Office of Field 
            Operations.
                (ii) A comparison of the number of potentially high-
            risk cargo containers scanned by the Office of Field 
            Operations at each sea port of entry during a fiscal year 
            to the total number of high-risk cargo containers entering 
            the United States at each such sea port of entry during the 
            previous fiscal year.
                (iii) The number of potentially high-risk cargo 
            containers scanned upon arrival at a United States sea port 
            of entry.
                (iv) The number of potentially high-risk cargo 
            containers scanned before arrival at a United States sea 
            port of entry.
        (2) Metrics consultation.--To ensure that authoritative data 
    sources are utilized in the development of the metrics described in 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) consult with the heads of the appropriate components of 
        the Department of Homeland Security; and
            (B) where appropriate, work with heads of other appropriate 
        agencies, including the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services and the Executive 
        Office for Immigration Review of the Department of Justice.
        (3) Manner of collection.--The data collected to inform the 
    metrics developed in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be 
    collected and reported in a consistent and standardized manner 
    across all United States ports of entry, informed by situational 
    awareness.
    (d) Metrics for Securing the Maritime Border.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop metrics, 
    informed by situational awareness, to measure the effectiveness of 
    security in the maritime environment. The Secretary shall annually 
    implement the metrics developed under this subsection, which shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Situational awareness achieved in the maritime 
        environment.
            (B) A known maritime migrant flow rate.
            (C) An illicit drugs removal rate for drugs removed inside 
        and outside of a transit zone, which compares the amount and 
        type of illicit drugs removed, including drugs abandoned at 
        sea, by the maritime security components of the Department of 
        Homeland Security in any fiscal year to the average of the 
        amount and type of illicit drugs removed by such maritime 
        components for the immediately preceding five fiscal years.
            (D) In consultation with the heads of the Office of 
        National Drug Control Policy and the United States Southern 
        Command, a cocaine removal effectiveness rate for cocaine 
        removed inside a transit zone and outside a transit zone, which 
        compares the amount of cocaine removed by the maritime security 
        components of the Department of Homeland Security by the total 
        documented cocaine flow rate, as contained in Federal drug 
        databases.
            (E) A response rate, which compares the ability of the 
        maritime security components of the Department of Homeland 
        Security to respond to and resolve known maritime threats, 
        whether inside or outside a transit zone, by placing assets on-
        scene, to the total number of events with respect to which the 
        Department has known threat information.
            (F) An intergovernmental response rate, which compares the 
        ability of the maritime security components of the Department 
        of Homeland Security or other United States Government entities 
        to respond to and resolve actionable maritime threats, whether 
        inside or outside a transit zone, with the number of such 
        threats detected.
        (2) Metrics consultation.--To ensure that authoritative data 
    sources are utilized in the development of the metrics described in 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) consult with the heads of the appropriate components of 
        the Department of Homeland Security; and
            (B) where appropriate, work with the heads of other 
        agencies, including the Drug Enforcement Agency, the Department 
        of Defense, and the Department of Justice.
        (3) Manner of collection.--The data used by the Secretary shall 
    be collected and reported in a consistent and standardized manner 
    by the maritime security components of the Department of Homeland 
    Security, informed by situational awareness.
    (e) Air and Marine Security Metrics in the Land Domain.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop metrics, 
    informed by situational awareness, to measure the effectiveness of 
    the aviation assets and operations of Air and Marine Operations of 
    U.S. Customs and Border Protection. The Secretary shall annually 
    implement the metrics developed under this subsection, which shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A flight hour effectiveness rate, which compares Air 
        and Marine Operations flight hours requirements to the number 
        of flight hours flown by Air and Marine Operations.
            (B) A funded flight hour effectiveness rate, which compares 
        the number of funded flight hours appropriated to Air and 
        Marine Operations to the number of actual flight hours flown by 
        Air and Marine Operations.
            (C) A readiness rate, which compares the number of aviation 
        missions flown by Air and Marine Operations to the number of 
        aviation missions cancelled by Air and Marine Operations due to 
        maintenance, operations, or other causes.
            (D) The number of missions cancelled by Air and Marine 
        Operations due to weather compared to the total planned 
        missions.
            (E) The number of individuals detected by Air and Marine 
        Operations through the use of unmanned aerial systems and 
        manned aircraft.
            (F) The number of apprehensions assisted by Air and Marine 
        Operations through the use of unmanned aerial systems and 
        manned aircraft.
            (G) The number and quantity of illicit drug seizures 
        assisted by Air and Marine Operations through the use of 
        unmanned aerial systems and manned aircraft.
            (H) The number of times that actionable intelligence 
        related to border security was obtained through the use of 
        unmanned aerial systems and manned aircraft.
        (2) Metrics consultation.--To ensure that authoritative data 
    sources are utilized in the development of the metrics described in 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall--
            (A) consult with the heads of the appropriate components of 
        the Department of Homeland Security; and
            (B) as appropriate, work with the heads of other 
        departments and agencies, including the Department of Justice.
        (3) Manner of collection.--The data collected to inform the 
    metrics developed in accordance with paragraph (1) shall be 
    collected and reported in a consistent and standardized manner by 
    Air and Marine Operations, informed by situational awareness.
    (f) Data Transparency.--The Secretary shall--
        (1) in accordance with applicable privacy laws, make data 
    related to apprehensions, inadmissible aliens, drug seizures, and 
    other enforcement actions available to the public, law enforcement 
    communities, and academic research communities; and
        (2) provide the Office of Immigration Statistics of the 
    Department of Homeland Security with unfettered access to the data 
    referred to in paragraph (1).
    (g) Evaluation by the Government Accountability Office and the 
Secretary.--
        (1) Metrics report.--
            (A) Mandatory disclosures.--The Secretary shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees and the Comptroller 
        General of the United States an annual report containing the 
        metrics required under this section and the data and 
        methodology used to develop such metrics.
            (B) Permissible disclosures.--The Secretary, for the 
        purpose of validation and verification, may submit the annual 
        report described in subparagraph (A) to--
                (i) the Center for Borders, Trade, and Immigration 
            Research of the Centers of Excellence network of the 
            Department of Homeland Security;
                (ii) the head of a national laboratory within the 
            Department of Homeland Security laboratory network with 
            prior expertise in border security; and
                (iii) a Federally Funded Research and Development 
            Center.
        (2) GAO report.--Not later than 270 days after receiving the 
    first report under paragraph (1)(A) and biennially thereafter for 
    the following ten years with respect to every other such report, 
    the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report that--
            (A) analyzes the suitability and statistical validity of 
        the data and methodology contained in each such report; and
            (B) includes recommendations on--
                (i) the feasibility of other suitable metrics that may 
            be used to measure the effectiveness of border security; 
            and
                (ii) improvements that need to be made to the metrics 
            being used to measure the effectiveness of border security.
        (3) State of the border report.--Not later than 60 days after 
    the end of each fiscal year through fiscal year 2026, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a ``State 
    of the Border'' report that--
            (A) provides trends for each metric under this section for 
        the last ten fiscal years, to the greatest extent possible;
            (B) provides selected analysis into related aspects of 
        illegal flow rates, including undocumented migrant flows and 
        stock estimation techniques;
            (C) provides selected analysis into related aspects of 
        legal flow rates; and
            (D) includes any other information that the Secretary 
        determines appropriate.
        (4) Metrics update.--
            (A) In general.--After submitting the tenth report to the 
        Comptroller General under paragraph (1), the Secretary may 
        reevaluate and update any of the metrics developed in 
        accordance with this section to ensure that such metrics are 
        suitable to measure the effectiveness of border security.
            (B) Congressional notification.--Not later than 30 days 
        before updating the metrics pursuant to subparagraph (A), the 
        Secretary shall notify the appropriate congressional committees 
        of such updates.
SEC. 1093. PROGRAM TO COMMEMORATE THE 100TH ANNIVERSARY OF THE TOMB OF 
THE UNKNOWN SOLDIER.
    (a) Commemorative Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
    program to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the Tomb of the 
    Unknown Soldier. In conducting the commemorative program, the 
    Secretary shall coordinate, support, and facilitate other programs 
    and activities of the Federal Government and State and local 
    governments.
        (2) Work with nongovernmental organizations.--In conducting the 
    commemorative program, the Secretary may work with nongovernmental 
    organizations working to support the commemoration of the Tomb of 
    the Unknown Soldier. No public funds may be used to undertake 
    activities sponsored by such organizations.
    (b) Schedule.--The Secretary shall determine the schedule of major 
events and priority of efforts for the commemorative program in order 
to ensure achievement of the objectives specified in subsection (c).
    (c) Commemorative Activities and Objectives.--The commemorative 
program may include activities and ceremonies to achieve the following 
objectives:
        (1) To honor America's commitment to never forget or forsake 
    those who served and sacrificed for our Country, including 
    personnel who were held as prisoners of war or listed as missing in 
    action, and to thank and honor the families of these veterans.
        (2) To highlight the service of the Armed Forces in times of 
    war or armed conflict and contributions of Federal agencies and 
    governmental and nongovernmental organizations that served with, or 
    in support of, the Armed Forces.
        (3) To pay tribute to the contributions made on the home front 
    by the people of the United States in times of war or armed 
    conflict.
        (4) To educate the American Public about service and sacrifice 
    on behalf of the United States of America and the principles that 
    define and unite us.
        (5) To recognize the contributions and sacrifices made by the 
    allies of the United States during times of war or armed conflict.
    (d) Names and Symbols.--The Secretary shall have the sole and 
exclusive right to use the name ``The United States of America Tomb of 
the Unknown Soldier Commemoration'', and such seal, emblems, and badges 
incorporating such name as the Secretary may lawfully adopt. Nothing in 
this section may be construed to supersede rights that are established 
or vested before the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Commemoration Fund.--
        (1) In general.--Upon the establishment of the commemorative 
    program under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
    establish in the Treasury of the United States an account to be 
    known as the ``Tomb of the Unknown Soldier Commemoration Fund'' (in 
    this subsection referred to as the ``Fund''). The Fund shall be 
    administered by the Secretary of Defense.
        (2) Deposits.--There shall be deposited into the Fund the 
    following:
            (A) Amounts appropriated to the Fund.
            (B) Proceeds derived from the use by the Secretary of 
        Defense of the exclusive rights described in subsection (d).
            (C) Donations made in support of the commemorative program 
        by private and corporate donors.
            (D) Funds transferred to the Fund by the Secretary of 
        Defense from funds appropriated for fiscal year 2017 and 
        subsequent years for the Department of Defense.
        (3) Use of fund.--The Secretary of Defense shall use the assets 
    of the Fund only for the purpose of conducting the commemorative 
    program. The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations regarding 
    the use of the Fund as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (4) Availability.--Amounts deposited under paragraph (2) shall 
    constitute the assets of the Fund and remain available until 
    expended.
        (5) Budget request.--The Secretary of Defense may establish a 
    separate budget line for the commemorative program. In the budget 
    justification materials submitted by the Secretary in support of 
    the budget of the President for any fiscal year for which the 
    Secretary establishes the separate budget line (as submitted to 
    Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code), 
    the Secretary shall--
            (A) identify and explain any amounts expended for the 
        commemorative program in the fiscal year preceding the budget 
        request;
            (B) identify and explain the amounts being requested to 
        support the commemorative program for the fiscal year of the 
        budget request; and
            (C) present a summary of the fiscal status of the Fund.
    (f) Acceptance of Voluntary Services.--
        (1) Authority to accept services.--Notwithstanding section 1342 
    of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense may 
    accept from any person voluntary services to be provided in 
    furtherance of the commemorative program. The Secretary shall 
    prohibit the solicitation of any voluntary services if the nature 
    or circumstances of such solicitation would compromise the 
    integrity or the appearance of integrity of any program of the 
    Department of Defense or of any individual involved in the program.
        (2) Reimbursement of incidental expenses.--The Secretary may 
    provide for reimbursement of incidental expenses incurred by a 
    person providing voluntary services under this subsection. The 
    Secretary shall determine which expenses are eligible for 
    reimbursement under this paragraph.
    (g) Final Report.--Not later than 60 days after the end of the 
commemorative program, if established by the Secretary of Defense under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
containing an accounting of the following:
        (1) All of the funds deposited into and expended from the Tomb 
    of the Unknown Soldier Commemoration Fund.
        (2) Any other funds expended under this section.
        (3) Any unobligated funds remaining in the Fund.
SEC. 1094. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE OCONUS BASING OF THE KC-46A 
AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the Department of Defense is 
continuing its process of permanently stationing the KC-46A aircraft at 
installations in the Continental United States (in this section 
referred to as ``CONUS'') and forward-basing outside the Continental 
United States (in this section referred to as ``OCONUS'').
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of the Air Force, as part of the strategic basing process for 
the KC-46A aircraft, should continue to place emphasis on and consider 
the benefits derived from outside the continental United States 
(OCONUS) locations that--
        (1) support day-to-day air refueling operations, combatant 
    commander operations plans, and flexibility for contingency ops, 
    and have--
            (A) a strategic location that is essential to the defense 
        of the United States and its interests;
            (B) receivers for boom or probe-and-drogue training 
        opportunities with joint and international partners; and
            (C) sufficient airfield and airspace availability and 
        capacity to meet requirements; and
        (2) possess facilities that--
            (A) take full advantage of existing infrastructure to 
        provide--
                (i) runway, hangars, and aircrew and maintenance 
            operations; and
                (ii) sufficient fuels receipt, storage, and 
            distribution for 5-day peacetime operating stock; and
            (B) minimize overall construction and operational costs.
SEC. 1095. DESIGNATION OF A DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRATEGIC ARCTIC 
PORT.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the Arctic 
is a region of growing strategic importance to the national security 
interest of the United States and that the Department of Defense must 
better align its posture and capabilities to meet the growing array of 
challenges in the region.
    (b) Arctic Defined.--In this section, the term ``Arctic'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 112 of the Arctic Research and 
Policy Act of 1984 (15 U.S.C. 4111).
    (c) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commanding General of 
the United States Army Corps of Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast 
Guard, and the Administrator of the Maritime Administration, shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing an 
assessment of the future security requirements for one or more 
strategic ports in the Arctic.
    (d) Contents of Report.--Consistent with the updated military 
strategy for the protection of United States national security 
interests in the Arctic region set forth in the reports required under 
section 1068 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 992), the report required under 
subsection (c) shall include--
        (1) the amount of sufficient and suitable space needed to 
    create capacity for port and other necessary infrastructure for at 
    least one of each of type of Navy or Coast Guard vessel, including 
    an Arleigh Burke class destroyer of the Navy, or a national 
    security cutter or a heavy polar ice breaker of the Coast Guard;
        (2) the amount of sufficient and suitable space needed to 
    create capacity for equipment and fuel storage, technological 
    infrastructure, and civil infrastructure to support military and 
    civilian operations, including--
            (A) aerospace warning;
            (B) maritime surface and subsurface warning;
            (C) maritime control and defense;
            (D) maritime domain awareness;
            (E) homeland defense;
            (F) defense support to civil authorities;
            (G) humanitarian relief;
            (H) search and rescue;
            (I) disaster relief;
            (J) oil spill response;
            (K) medical stabilization and evacuation; and
            (L) meteorological measurements and forecasting;
        (3) an identification of proximity and road access to an 
    airport designated as a commercial service airport by the Federal 
    Aviation Administration that is capable of supporting military and 
    civilian aircraft for operations designated in paragraph (2); and
        (4) a description of the requirements, to include 
    infrastructure and installations, communications, and logistics 
    necessary to improve response effectiveness to support military and 
    civilian operations designated in paragraph (2).
    (e) Designation of Strategic Arctic Ports.--
        (1) Designation criteria and recommendations.--Upon completion 
    of the report required under subsection (c), the Secretary of 
    Defense, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff, the Commanding General of the United States Army Corps of 
    Engineers, the Commandant of the Coast Guard, the Administrator of 
    the Maritime Administration, shall--
            (A) establish criteria for the designation of a port as a 
        ``Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Port''; and
            (B) if the report required under subsection (c) includes a 
        determination that one or more strategic Arctic ports are 
        necessary to fulfill future security requirements in the 
        Arctic, not later than 18 months after the date of the 
        completion of the report, submit to the congressional defense 
        committees recommendations for the designation of one or more 
        ports as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic Ports.
        (2) Cost estimates.--The recommendations submitted under 
    paragraph (1)(B) shall include the estimated cost of sufficient 
    construction necessary to initiate and sustain expected operations 
    at the ports designated as Department of Defense Strategic Arctic 
    Ports.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to authorize any additional appropriations for the Department of 
Defense for the establishment of any port recommended pursuant to this 
section.
SEC. 1096. RECOVERY OF EXCESS RIFLES, AMMUNITION, AND PARTS GRANTED TO 
FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND TRANSFER TO CERTAIN PERSONS.
    (a) Recovery.--Subchapter II of chapter 407 of title 36, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 40728A the following 
new section:
``Sec. 40728B. Recovery of excess rifles, ammunition, and parts granted 
      to foreign countries and transfer to certain persons
    ``(a) Authority to Recover.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2) and 
subsection (b), the Secretary of the Army may acquire from any person 
any rifle, ammunition, repair parts, or other supplies described in 
section 40731(a) of this title which were--
        ``(A) provided to any country on a grant basis under the 
    conditions imposed by section 505 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 
    1961 (22 U.S.C. 2314) that became excess to the needs of such 
    country; and
        ``(B) lawfully acquired by such person.
    ``(2) The Secretary of the Army may not acquire anything under 
paragraph (1) except for transfer to a person in the United States 
under subsection (c).
    ``(3) The Secretary of the Army may accept rifles, ammunition, 
repair parts, or other supplies under paragraph (1) notwithstanding 
section 1342 of title 31.
    ``(b) Cost of Recovery.--The Secretary of the Army may not acquire 
anything under subsection (a) if the United States would incur any cost 
for such acquisition.
    ``(c) Availability for Transfer.--Any rifles, ammunition, repair 
parts, or supplies acquired under subsection (a) shall be available for 
transfer in the United States to the person from whom acquired if such 
person--
        ``(1) is licensed as a manufacturer, importer, or dealer 
    pursuant to section 923(a) of title 18; and
        ``(2) uses an ammunition depot of the Army that is an eligible 
    facility for receipt of any rifles, ammunition, repair parts, or 
    supplies under this paragraph.
    ``(d) Market Value.--The Secretary of the Army may only transfer an 
item under subsection (c) if the Secretary receives fair market value 
for the item.
    ``(e) Contracts.--Notwithstanding subsection (k) of section 2304 of 
title 10, the Secretary may enter into such contracts or cooperative 
agreements on a sole source basis pursuant to paragraphs (4) and (5) of 
subsection (c) of such section to carry out this section.
    ``(f) AECA.--Transfers authorized under this section may only be 
made in accordance with applicable provisions of the Arms Export 
Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2778).
    ``(g) Rifle Defined.--In this section, the term `rifle' has the 
meaning given such term in section 921 of title 18.''.
    (b) Sale.--Section 40732 of such title is amended--
        (1) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Sales by Other Persons.--A person who receives a rifle or any 
ammunition, repair parts, or supplies under section 40728B(c) of this 
title may sell, at fair market value, such rifle, ammunition, repair 
parts, or supplies. With respect to rifles other than caliber .22 
rimfire and caliber .30 rifles, the seller shall obtain a license as a 
dealer in rifles and abide by all requirements imposed on persons 
licensed under chapter 44 of title 18, including maintaining 
acquisition and disposition records, and conducting background 
checks.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``The corporation may 
    not'' and inserting ``No person acquiring a firearm under this 
    chapter may''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 407 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 40728A the following new item:

``40728B. Recovery of excess rifles, ammunition, and parts granted to 
          foreign countries and transfer to certain persons.''.

    (d) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit 
    to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a 
    report on the acquisition and transfer of excess rifles, 
    ammunition, repair parts, and other supplies described in section 
    40731(a) of title 36, United States Code, that were provided to a 
    country on a grant basis under the conditions imposed by section 
    505 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961. The report shall include 
    each of the following:
            (A) A list of excess rifles, ammunition, repair parts, and 
        other supplies known to the United States Army as eligible for 
        transfer under section 40731(a) of title 36, United States 
        Code.
            (B) An assessment of whether and how the Secretary of the 
        Army intends to use the authorities under section 40728B of 
        title 36, United States Code, as added by this section.
            (C) Any other issue that the Secretary of the Army 
        considers appropriate.
        (2) Prohibition on transfers pending submittal of report.--No 
    rifle, ammunition, repair part, or supplies acquired under section 
    40728B(a) of title 36, United States Code, may be transferred until 
    the date that is 90 days after the date of the submittal of the 
    report required under paragraph (1).

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

           Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters Generally

Sec. 1101. Civilian personnel management.
Sec. 1102. Repeal of requirement for annual strategic workforce plan for 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1103. Training for employment personnel of Department of Defense on 
          matters relating to authorities for recruitment and retention 
          at United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1104. Public-private talent exchange.
Sec. 1105. Temporary and term appointments in the competitive service in 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1106. Direct-hire authority for the Department of Defense for post-
          secondary students and recent graduates.
Sec. 1107. Temporary increase in maximum amount of voluntary separation 
          incentive pay authorized for civilian employees of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1108. Extension of rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy 
          employees performing work aboard or dockside in support of the 
          nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1109. Limitation on number of DOD SES positions.
Sec. 1110. Direct hire authority for financial management experts in the 
          Department of Defense workforce.
Sec. 1111. Repeal of certain basis for appointment of a retired member 
          of the Armed Forces to Department of Defense position within 
          180 days of retirement.

 Subtitle B--Department of Defense Science and Technology Laboratories 
                           and Related Matters

Sec. 1121. Permanent personnel management authority for the Department 
          of Defense for experts in science and engineering.
Sec. 1122. Codification and modification of certain authorities for 
          certain positions at Department of Defense research and 
          engineering laboratories.
Sec. 1123. Modification to information technology personnel exchange 
          program.
Sec. 1124. Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain research 
          and technology positions in the science and technology 
          reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1125. Temporary direct hire authority for domestic defense 
          industrial base facilities, the Major Range and Test 
          Facilities Base, and the Office of the Director of Operational 
          Test and Evaluation.

                   Subtitle C--Governmentwide Matters

Sec. 1131. Elimination of two-year eligibility limitation for 
          noncompetitive appointment of spouses of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 1132. Temporary personnel flexibilities for domestic defense 
          industrial base facilities and Major Range and Test Facilities 
          Base civilian personnel.
Sec. 1133. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on 
          official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1134. Advance payments for employees relocating within the United 
          States and its territories.
Sec. 1135. Eligibility of employees in a time-limited appointment to 
          compete for a permanent appointment at any Federal agency.
Sec. 1136.  Review of official personnel file of former Federal 
          employees before rehiring.
Sec. 1137. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1138. Administrative leave.
Sec. 1139. Direct hiring for Federal wage schedule employees.
Sec. 1140. Record of investigation of personnel action in separated 
          employee's official personnel file.

          Subtitle A--Department of Defense Matters Generally

SEC. 1101. CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.
    (a) Modification of Management Limitations.--Section 129 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``solely'';
            (B) in the second sentence--
                (i) by striking ``The management of such personnel in 
            any fiscal year shall not be subject to any'' and inserting 
            ``Any''; and
                (ii) by inserting before the period the following: 
            ``shall be developed on the basis of those factors and 
            shall be subject to adjustment solely for reasons of 
            changed circumstances''; and
            (C) in the third sentence, by striking ``unless such 
        reduction'' and all that follows and inserting ``except in 
        accordance with the requirements of this section and section 
        129a of this title.'';
        (2) by striking subsections (b), (c), (e), and (f);
        (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b); and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subsection (c):
    ``(c)(1) Not later than February 1 of each year--
        ``(A) the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the management of the 
    civilian workforce of the Office of the Secretary of Defense and 
    the Defense Agencies and Field Activities; and
        ``(B) the Secretary of each military department shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report on the management of 
    the civilian workforces under the jurisdiction of such Secretary.
    ``(2) Each report under paragraph (1) shall contain, with respect 
to the civilian workforce under the jurisdiction of the official 
submitting the report, the following:
        ``(A) An assessment of the projected size of such civilian 
    workforce in the current year and for each year in the future-years 
    defense program.
        ``(B) If the projected size of such civilian workforce has 
    changed from the previous year's projected size, an explanation of 
    the reasons for the increase or decrease from the previous 
    projection, including an explanation of any efforts that have been 
    taken to identify offsetting reductions and avoid unnecessary 
    overall growth in the size of the civilian workforce.
        ``(C) In the case of a transfer of functions between military, 
    civilian, and contractor workforces, an explanation of the reasons 
    for the transfer and the steps that have been taken to control the 
    overall cost of the function to the Department.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is amended to 
    read as follows:
``Sec. 129. Civilian personnel management''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The item relating to such section in 
    the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 3 of such title 
    is amended to read as follows:

``129. Civilian personnel management.''.
SEC. 1102. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR ANNUAL STRATEGIC WORKFORCE PLAN 
FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 115b of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 2 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 115b.
SEC. 1103. TRAINING FOR EMPLOYMENT PERSONNEL OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
ON MATTERS RELATING TO AUTHORITIES FOR RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION AT 
UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.
    (a) Training Required.--Section 1599f of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j) as 
    subsections (g), (h), (i), (j), and (k), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Training.--(1) The Secretary shall provide training to 
covered personnel on hiring and pay matters relating to authorities 
under this section.
    ``(2) For purposes of this subsection, covered personnel are 
employees of the Department who--
        ``(A) carry out functions relating to--
            ``(i) the management of human resources and the civilian 
        workforce of the Department; or
            ``(ii) the writing of guidance for the implementation of 
        authorities regarding hiring and pay under this section; or
        ``(B) are employed in supervisory positions or have 
    responsibilities relating to the hiring of individuals for 
    positions in the Department and to whom the Secretary intends to 
    delegate authority under this section.''.
    (b) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the appropriate committees of Congress (as defined in section 1599f 
    of title 10, United States Code) a report on the training the 
    Secretary intends to provide to each of the employees described in 
    subsection (f)(2) of such section (as added by subsection (a) of 
    this section) and the frequency with which the Secretary intends to 
    provide such training.
        (2) Ongoing reports.--Subsection (h)(2)(E) of such section, as 
    redesignated by subsection (a)(1) of this section, is amended by 
    striking ``supervisors of employees in qualified positions at the 
    Department on the use of the new authorities'' and inserting 
    ``employees described in subsection (f)(2) on the use of 
    authorities under this section''.
SEC. 1104. PUBLIC-PRIVATE TALENT EXCHANGE.
    (a) Authority.--Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1599g. Public-private talent exchange
    ``(a) Assignment Authority.--Under regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary may, with the agreement of a 
private-sector organization and the consent of the employee, arrange 
for the temporary assignment of an employee to such private-sector 
organization, or from such private-sector organization to a Department 
of Defense organization under this section.
    ``(b) Agreements.--(1) The Secretary of Defense shall provide for a 
written agreement among the Department of Defense, the private-sector 
organization, and the employee concerned regarding the terms and 
conditions of the employee's assignment under this section. The 
agreement--
        ``(A) shall require that the employee of the Department of 
    Defense, upon completion of the assignment, will serve in the 
    Department of Defense, or elsewhere in the civil service if 
    approved by the Secretary, for a period equal to twice the length 
    of the assignment;
        ``(B) shall provide that if the employee of the Department of 
    Defense or of the private-sector organization (as the case may be) 
    fails to carry out the agreement, such employee shall be liable to 
    the United States for payment of all expenses of the assignment, 
    unless that failure was for good and sufficient reason, as 
    determined by the Secretary of Defense; and
        ``(C) shall contain language ensuring that such employee of the 
    Department does not improperly use pre-decisional or draft 
    deliberative information that such employee may be privy to or 
    aware of related to Department programing, budgeting, resourcing, 
    acquisition, or procurement for the benefit or advantage of the 
    private-sector organization.
    ``(2) An amount for which an employee is liable under paragraph (1) 
shall be treated as a debt due the United States.
    ``(3) The Secretary may waive, in whole or in part, collection of a 
debt described in paragraph (2) based on a determination that the 
collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in the 
best interests of the United States, after taking into account any 
indication of fraud, misrepresentation, fault, or lack of good faith on 
the part of the employee.
    ``(c) Termination.--An assignment under this section may, at any 
time and for any reason, be terminated by the Department of Defense or 
the private-sector organization concerned.
    ``(d) Duration.--(1) An assignment under this section shall be for 
a period of not less than three months and not more than two years, 
renewable up to a total of four years. No employee of the Department of 
Defense may be assigned under this section for more than a total of 4 
years inclusive of all such assignments.
    ``(2) An assignment under this section may be for a period in 
excess of two years, but not more than four years, if the Secretary 
determines that such assignment is necessary to meet critical mission 
or program requirements.
    ``(e) Status of Federal Employees Assigned to Private-sector 
Organizations.--(1) An employee of the Department of Defense who is 
assigned to a private-sector organization under this section shall be 
considered, during the period of assignment, to be on detail to a 
regular work assignment in the Department for all purposes. The written 
agreement established under subsection (b)(1) shall address the 
specific terms and conditions related to the employee's continued 
status as a Federal employee.
    ``(2) In establishing a temporary assignment of an employee of the 
Department of Defense to a private-sector organization, the Secretary 
of Defense shall--
        ``(A) ensure that the normal duties and functions of such 
    employee can be reasonably performed by other employees of the 
    Department of Defense without the transfer or reassignment of other 
    personnel of the Department of Defense, including members of the 
    armed forces;
        ``(B) ensure that the normal duties and functions of such 
    employees are not, as a result of and during the course of such 
    temporary assignment, performed or augmented by contractor 
    personnel in violation of the provisions of section 2461 of this 
    title; and
        ``(C) certify that the temporary assignment of such employee 
    shall not have an adverse or negative impact on mission attainment, 
    warfighter support, or organizational capabilities associated with 
    the assignment.
    ``(f) Terms and Conditions for Private-sector Employees.--An 
employee of a private-sector organization who is assigned to a 
Department of Defense organization under this section--
        ``(1) shall continue to receive pay and benefits from the 
    private-sector organization from which such employee is assigned 
    and shall not receive pay or benefits from the Department of 
    Defense, except as provided in paragraph (2);
        ``(2) is deemed to be an employee of the Department of Defense 
    for the purposes of--
            ``(A) chapters 73 and 81 of title 5;
            ``(B) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603, 606, 607, 
        643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18;
            ``(C) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31;
            ``(D) the Federal Tort Claims Act and any other Federal 
        tort liability statute;
            ``(E) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978; and
            ``(F) chapter 21 of title 41;
        ``(3) shall not have access to any trade secrets or to any 
    other nonpublic information which is of commercial value to the 
    private-sector organization from which such employee is assigned;
        ``(4) may perform work that is considered inherently 
    governmental in nature only when requested in writing by the 
    Secretary of Defense; and
        ``(5) may not be used to circumvent the provision of section 
    2461 of this title nor to circumvent any limitation or restriction 
    on the size of the Department's workforce.
    ``(g) Prohibition Against Charging Certain Costs to the Federal 
Government.--A private-sector organization may not charge the 
Department or any other agency of the Federal Government, as direct or 
indirect costs under a Federal contract, the costs of pay or benefits 
paid by the organization to an employee assigned to a Department 
organization under this section for the period of the assignment.
    ``(h) Considerations.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
of Defense--
        ``(1) shall ensure that, of the assignments made under this 
    section each year, at least 20 percent are from small business 
    concerns (as defined by section 3703(e)(2)(A) of title 5);
        ``(2) shall take into consideration the question of how 
    assignments under this section might best be used to help meet the 
    needs of the Department of Defense with respect to the training of 
    employees; and
        ``(3) shall take into consideration, where applicable, areas of 
    particular private sector expertise, such as cybersecurity.''.
    (b) Table of Sections Amendment.--The table of sections at the 
beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``1599g. Public-private talent exchange.''.
SEC. 1105. TEMPORARY AND TERM APPOINTMENTS IN THE COMPETITIVE SERVICE 
IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Appointment.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may make a temporary 
    appointment or a term appointment in the Department when the need 
    for the services of an employee in the Department is not permanent.
        (2) Extension.--The Secretary may extend a temporary 
    appointment or a term appointment made under paragraph (1).
    (b) Appointments for Critical Hiring Needs.--
        (1) In general.--If there is a critical hiring need, the 
    Secretary of Defense may make a noncompetitive temporary 
    appointment or a noncompetitive term appointment in the Department 
    of Defense, without regard to the requirements of sections 3327 and 
    3330 of title 5, United States Code, for a period that is not more 
    than 18 months.
        (2) No extension available.--An appointment made under 
    paragraph (1) may not be extended.
    (c) Regulations.--The Secretary may prescribe regulations to carry 
out this section.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``temporary appointment'' means the appointment of 
    an employee in the competitive service for a period that is not 
    more than one year.
        (2) The term ``term appointment'' means the appointment of an 
    employee in the competitive service for a period that is more than 
    one year and not more than five years, unless the Secretary of 
    Defense, before the appointment of the employee, authorizes a 
    longer period.
SEC. 1106. DIRECT-HIRE AUTHORITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FOR 
POST-SECONDARY STUDENTS AND RECENT GRADUATES.
    (a) Hiring Authority.--Without regard to sections 3309 through 
3318, 3327, and 3330 of title 5, United States Code, the Secretary of 
Defense may recruit and appoint qualified recent graduates and current 
post-secondary students to competitive service positions in 
professional and administrative occupations within the Department of 
Defense.
    (b) Limitation on Appointments.--Subject to subsection (c)(2), the 
total number of employees appointed by the Secretary under subsection 
(a) during a fiscal year may not exceed the number equal to 15 percent 
of the number of hires made into professional and administrative 
occupations of the Department at the GS-11 level and below (or 
equivalent) under competitive examining procedures during the previous 
fiscal year.
    (c) Regulations.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer this section in 
    accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary for 
    purposes of this section.
        (2) Lower limit on appointments.--The regulations may establish 
    a lower limit on the number of individuals appointable under 
    subsection (a) during a fiscal year than is otherwise provided for 
    under subsection (b), based on such factors as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate.
        (3) Public notice and advertising.--To the extent practical, as 
    determined by the Secretary, the Secretary shall publicly advertise 
    positions available under this section. In carrying out the 
    preceding sentence, the Secretary shall--
            (A) take into account merit system principles, mission 
        requirements, costs, and organizational benefits of any 
        advertising of positions; and
            (B) advertise such positions in the manner the Secretary 
        determines is most likely to provide diverse and qualified 
        candidates and ensure potential applicants have appropriate 
        information relevant to the positions available.
    (d) Sunset.--The authority provided under this section shall 
terminate on September 30, 2021.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``current post-secondary student'' means a person 
    who--
            (A) is currently enrolled in, and in good academic standing 
        at, a full-time program at an institution of higher education;
            (B) is making satisfactory progress toward receipt of a 
        baccalaureate or graduate degree; and
            (C) has completed at least one year of the program.
        (2) The term ``institution of higher education'' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act 
    of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1001).
        (3) The term ``recent graduate'', with respect to appointment 
    of a person under this section, means a person who was awarded a 
    degree by an institution of higher education not more than two 
    years before the date of the appointment of such person, except 
    that in the case of a person who has completed a period of 
    obligated service in a uniformed service of more than four years, 
    such term means a person who was awarded a degree by an institution 
    of higher education not more than four years before the date of the 
    appointment of such person.
SEC. 1107. TEMPORARY INCREASE IN MAXIMUM AMOUNT OF VOLUNTARY SEPARATION 
INCENTIVE PAY AUTHORIZED FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE.
    During the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act 
and ending on September 30, 2018, section 9902(f)(5)(A)(ii) of title 5, 
United States Code, shall be applied by substituting ``an amount 
determined by the Secretary, not to exceed $40,000'' for ``$25,000''.
SEC. 1108. EXTENSION OF RATE OF OVERTIME PAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 
EMPLOYEES PERFORMING WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE NUCLEAR-
POWERED AIRCRAFT CARRIER FORWARD DEPLOYED IN JAPAN.
    Section 5542(a)(6)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting ``September 30, 2018''.
SEC. 1109. LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOD SES POSITIONS.
    (a) Limitation on Number of DOD SES Positions.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2022, the total 
    number of Senior Executive Service positions authorized under 
    section 3133 of title 5, United States Code, for the Department of 
    Defense may not exceed 1,260.
        (2) Highly qualified experts.--Of the total number of positions 
    authorized under paragraph (1), not more than 200 of such positions 
    may be occupied by an individual appointed under the authority 
    provided in section 9903 of such title.
    (b) Plan to Achieve Required Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan 
    to achieve the limitation required by subsection (a) that 
    includes--
            (A) the distribution of Senior Executive Service positions 
        across the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the Joint Staff, 
        the Military Departments, the Defense Agencies and Field 
        Activities, the unified and specified combatant commands, and 
        other key elements of the Department of Defense;
            (B) the by-year reductions to Senior Executive Service 
        positions consistent with the distribution required under 
        subparagraph (A); and
            (C) recommendations for any legislative action that may be 
        necessary for personnel management and shaping authorities to 
        achieve the required limitation.
        (2) Submission of plan.--Not less than one year after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report setting forth the plan developed under 
    paragraph (1).
        (3) Progress reports.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide 
    to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives semi-annual progress report briefings describing 
    and assessing the progress of the Secretary in implementing the 
    plan developed under paragraph (1).
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3133(c) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``Beginning in 2023, the number of such positions authorized 
under the preceding sentence for the Department of Defense may not 
exceed the limitation provided in section 1109 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.''.
    (d) Definition of Senior Executive Service Position.--In this 
section, the term ``Senior Executive Service position'' has the meaning 
given such term in section 3132(a)(2) of title 5, United States Code.
SEC. 1110. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT EXPERTS IN 
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WORKFORCE.
    (a) Authority.--Each Secretary concerned may appoint qualified 
candidates possessing a finance, accounting, management, or actuarial 
science degree, or a related degree or equivalent experience, to 
positions specified in subsection (c) for the Defense Agencies or the 
applicable military department without regard to the provisions of 
subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code.
    (b) Secretary Concerned.--For purposes of this section, the 
Secretary concerned is as follows:
        (1) The Secretary of Defense with respect to the Defense 
    Agencies.
        (2) The Secretary of a military department with respect to such 
    military department.
    (c) Positions.--The positions specified in this subsection are the 
positions within the Department of Defense workforce as follows:
        (1) Financial management positions.
        (2) Accounting positions.
        (3) Auditing positions.
        (4) Actuarial positions.
        (5) Cost estimation positions.
        (6) Operational research positions.
        (7) Business and business administration positions.
    (d) Limitation.--Authority under this section may not, in any 
calendar year and with respect to any Defense Agency or military 
department, be exercised with respect to a number of candidates greater 
than the number equal to 10 percent of the total number of the 
financial management, accounting, auditing, and actuarial positions 
within the financial management workforce of such Defense Agency or 
military department that are filled as of the close of the fiscal year 
last ending before the start of such calendar year.
    (e) Nature of Appointment.--Any appointment under this section 
shall be treated as an appointment on a full-time equivalent basis, 
unless such appointment is made on a term or temporary basis.
    (f) Employee Defined.--In this section, the term ``employee'' has 
the meaning given that term in section 2105 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    (g) Termination.--The authority to make appointments under this 
section shall not be available after December 31, 2022.
SEC. 1111. REPEAL OF CERTAIN BASIS FOR APPOINTMENT OF A RETIRED MEMBER 
OF THE ARMED FORCES TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POSITION WITHIN 180 DAYS 
OF RETIREMENT.
    Section 3326(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by adding ``or'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
    period; and
        (3) by striking paragraph (3).

 Subtitle B--Department of Defense Science and Technology Laboratories 
                          and Related Matters

SEC. 1121. PERMANENT PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT AUTHORITY FOR THE DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE FOR EXPERTS IN SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING.
    (a) Permanent Personnel Management Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    amended by section 1104 of this Act, is further amended by adding 
    at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1599h. Personnel management authority to attract experts in 
     science and engineering
    ``(a) Programs Authorized.--
        ``(1) Laboratories of the military departments.--The Secretary 
    of Defense may carry out a program of personnel management 
    authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate 
    recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering for such 
    laboratories of the military departments as the Secretary shall 
    designate for purposes of the program for research and development 
    projects of such laboratories.
        ``(2) DARPA.--The Director of the Defense Advanced Research 
    Projects Agency may carry out a program of personnel management 
    authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate 
    recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering for 
    research and development projects and to enhance the administration 
    and management of the Agency.
        ``(3) DOTE.--The Director of the Office of Operational Test and 
    Evaluation may carry out a program of personnel management 
    authority provided in subsection (b) in order to facilitate 
    recruitment of eminent experts in science or engineering to support 
    operational test and evaluation missions of the Office.
    ``(b) Personnel Management Authority.--Under a program under 
subsection (a), the official responsible for administration of the 
program may--
        ``(1) without regard to any provision of title 5 governing the 
    appointment of employees in the civil service--
            ``(A) in the case of the laboratories of the military 
        departments designated pursuant to subsection (a)(1), appoint 
        scientists and engineers to a total of not more than 40 
        scientific and engineering positions in such laboratories;
            ``(B) in the case of the Defense Advanced Research Projects 
        Agency, appoint individuals to a total of not more than 100 
        positions in the Agency, of which not more than 5 such 
        positions may be positions of administration or management of 
        the Agency; and
            ``(C) in the case of the Office of Operational Test and 
        Evaluation, appoint scientists and engineers to a total of not 
        more than 10 scientific and engineering positions in the 
        Office;
        ``(2) notwithstanding any provision of title 5 governing the 
    rates of pay or classification of employees in the executive 
    branch, prescribe the rates of basic pay for positions to which 
    employees are appointed under paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) in the case of employees appointed pursuant to 
        paragraph (1)(B) to any of 5 positions designated by the 
        Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency for 
        purposes of this subparagraph, at rates not in excess of a rate 
        equal to 150 percent of the maximum rate of basic pay 
        authorized for positions at Level I of the Executive Schedule 
        under section 5312 of title 5; and
            ``(B) in the case of any other employee appointed pursuant 
        to paragraph (1), at rates not in excess of the maximum rate of 
        basic pay authorized for senior-level positions under section 
        5376 of title 5; and
        ``(3) pay any employee appointed under paragraph (1), other 
    than an employee appointed to a position designated as described in 
    paragraph (2)(A), payments in addition to basic pay within the 
    limit applicable to the employee under subsection (d).
    ``(c) Limitation on Term of Appointment.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    service of an employee under an appointment under subsection (b)(1) 
    may not exceed four years.
        ``(2) Extension.--The official responsible for the 
    administration of a program under subsection (a) may, in the case 
    of a particular employee under the program, extend the period to 
    which service is limited under paragraph (1) by up to two years if 
    the official determines that such action is necessary to promote 
    the efficiency of a laboratory of a military department, the 
    Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, or the Office of 
    Operational Test and Evaluation, as applicable.
    ``(d) Maximum Amount of Additional Payments Payable.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of this section or section 5307 of 
title 5, no additional payments may be paid to an employee under 
subsection (b)(3) in any calendar year if, or to the extent that, the 
employee's total annual compensation in such calendar year will exceed 
the maximum amount of total annual compensation payable at the salary 
set in accordance with section 104 of title 3.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 81 of such title, as so amended, is further amended by 
    adding at the end the following new item:

``1599h. Personnel management authority to attract experts in science 
          and engineering.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 1101 of the Strom 
Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 
(Public Law 105-261; 5 U.S.C. 3104 note) is repealed.
    (c) Applicability of Personnel Management Authority to Personnel 
Currently Employed Under Superseded Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Any individual employed as of the date of the 
    enactment of this Act under section 1101(b)(1) of the Strom 
    Thurmond National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (5 
    U.S.C. 3104 note) (as in effect on the day before such date) shall 
    remain employed under section 1599h of title 10, United States Code 
    (as added by subsection (a)), after such date in accordance with 
    such section 1599h and the applicable program carried out under 
    such section 1599h.
        (2) Date of appointment.--For purposes of subsection (c) of 
    section 1599h of title 10, United States Code (as so added), the 
    date of the appointment of any employee who remains employed as 
    described in paragraph (1) shall be the date of the appointment of 
    such employee under section 1101(b)(1) of the Strom Thurmond 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (5 U.S.C. 
    3104 note) (as so in effect).
SEC. 1122. CODIFICATION AND MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES FOR 
CERTAIN POSITIONS AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING 
LABORATORIES.
    (a) Codification.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2358 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2358a. Authorities for certain positions at science and 
     technology reinvention laboratories
    ``(a) Authority to Make Direct Appointments.--
        ``(1) Candidates for scientific and engineering positions at 
    science and technology reinvention laboratories.--The director of 
    any Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratory (hereinafter in 
    this section referred to as an `STRL') may appoint qualified 
    candidates possessing a bachelor's degree to positions described in 
    paragraph (1) of subsection (b) as an employee in a laboratory 
    described in that paragraph without regard to the provisions of 
    subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other than sections 3303 and 
    3328 of such title).
        ``(2) Veteran candidates for similar positions at research and 
    engineering facilities.--The director of any STRL may appoint 
    qualified veteran candidates to positions described in paragraph 
    (2) of subsection (b) as an employee at a laboratory, agency, or 
    organization specified in that paragraph without regard to the 
    provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5.
        ``(3) Students enrolled in scientific and engineering 
    programs.--The director of any STRL may appoint qualified 
    candidates enrolled in a program of undergraduate or graduate 
    instruction leading to a bachelor's or an advanced degree in a 
    scientific, technical, engineering or mathematical course of study 
    at an institution of higher education (as that term is defined in 
    sections 101 and 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
    1001, 1002)) to positions described in paragraph (3) of subsection 
    (b) as an employee in a laboratory described in that paragraph 
    without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of 
    title 5 (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title).
        ``(4) Noncompetitive conversion to permanent appointment.--With 
    respect to any student appointed by the director of an STRL under 
    paragraph (3) to a temporary or term appointment, upon graduation 
    from the applicable institution of higher education (as defined in 
    such paragraph), the director may noncompetitively convert such 
    student to a permanent appointment within the STRL without regard 
    to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5 (other 
    than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title), provided the student 
    meets all eligibility and Office of Personnel Management 
    qualification requirements for the position.
    ``(b) Covered Positions.--
        ``(1) Candidates for scientific and engineering positions.--The 
    positions described in this paragraph are scientific and 
    engineering positions that may be temporary, term, or permanent in 
    any laboratory designated by section 1105(a) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
    10 U.S.C. 2358 note) as a Department of Defense science and 
    technology reinvention laboratory.
        ``(2) Qualified veteran candidates.--The positions described in 
    this paragraph are scientific, technical, engineering, and 
    mathematics positions, including technicians, in the following:
            ``(A) Any laboratory referred to in paragraph (1).
            ``(B) Any other Department of Defense research and 
        engineering agency or organization designated by the Secretary 
        for purposes of subsection (a)(2).
        ``(3) Candidates enrolled in scientific and engineering 
    programs.--The positions described in this paragraph are scientific 
    and engineering positions that may be temporary or term in any 
    laboratory designated by section 1105(a) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 
    U.S.C. 2358 note) as a Department of Defense science and technology 
    reinvention laboratory.
    ``(c) Limitation on Number of Appointments Allowable in a Calendar 
Year.--The authority under subsection (a) may not, in any calendar year 
and with respect to any laboratory, agency, or organization described 
in subsection (b), be exercised with respect to a number of candidates 
greater than the following:
        ``(1) In the case of a laboratory described in subsection 
    (b)(1), with respect to appointment authority under subsection 
    (a)(1), the number equal to 6 percent of the total number of 
    scientific and engineering positions in such laboratory that are 
    filled as of the close of the fiscal year last ending before the 
    start of such calendar year.
        ``(2) In the case of a laboratory, agency, or organization 
    described in subsection (b)(2), with respect to appointment 
    authority under subsection (a)(2), the number equal to 3 percent of 
    the total number of scientific, technical, engineering, 
    mathematics, and technician positions in such laboratory, agency, 
    or organization that are filled as of the close of the fiscal year 
    last ending before the start of such calendar year.
        ``(3) In the case of a laboratory described in subsection 
    (b)(3), with respect to appointment authority under subsection 
    (a)(3), the number equal to 10 percent of the total number of 
    scientific and engineering positions in such laboratory that are 
    filled as of the close of the fiscal year last ending before the 
    start of such calendar year.
    ``(d) Senior Scientific Technical Managers.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--There is hereby established in each STRL 
    a category of senior professional scientific and technical 
    positions, the incumbents of which shall be designated as `senior 
    scientific technical managers' and which shall be positions 
    classified above GS-15 of the General Schedule, notwithstanding 
    section 5108(a) of title 5. The primary functions of such positions 
    shall be--
            ``(A) to engage in research and development in the 
        physical, biological, medical, or engineering sciences, or 
        another field closely related to the mission of such STRL; and
            ``(B) to carry out technical supervisory responsibilities.
        ``(2) Appointments.--The positions described in paragraph (1) 
    may be filled, and shall be managed, by the director of the STRL 
    involved, under criteria established pursuant to section 342(b) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public 
    Law 103-337; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note), relating to personnel 
    demonstration projects at laboratories of the Department of 
    Defense, except that the director of the laboratory involved shall 
    determine the number of such positions at such laboratory, not to 
    exceed 2 percent of the number of scientists and engineers employed 
    at such laboratory as of the close of the last fiscal year before 
    the fiscal year in which any appointments subject to that numerical 
    limitation are made.
    ``(e) Exclusion From Personnel Limitations.--
        ``(1) In general.--The director of an STRL shall manage the 
    workforce strength, structure, positions, and compensation of such 
    STRL--
            ``(A) without regard to any limitation on appointments, 
        positions, or funding with respect to such STRL, subject to 
        subparagraph (B); and
            ``(B) in a manner consistent with the budget available with 
        respect to such STRL.
        ``(2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to Senior 
    Executive Service positions (as defined in section 3132(a) of title 
    5) or scientific and professional positions authorized under 
    section 3104 of such title.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `employee' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 2105 of title 5.
        ``(2) The term `veteran' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 101 of title 38.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 2358 the following new item:

``2358a. Authorities for certain positions at science and technology 
          reinvention laboratories.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Section.--Section 1107 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is 
hereby repealed.
SEC. 1123. MODIFICATION TO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PERSONNEL EXCHANGE 
PROGRAM.
    Section 1110 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 5 U.S.C. 3702 note) is amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``cyber and'' before 
    ``information''.
        (2) in subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(C), and (g)(2), by 
    inserting ``cyber operations or'' before ``information'';
        (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
    ``2022'';
        (4) in subsection (g)(1), by inserting ``to or'' before 
    ``from''; and
        (5) in subsection (h), by striking ``10'' and inserting ``50''.
SEC. 1124. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH 
AND TECHNOLOGY POSITIONS IN THE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY REINVENTION 
LABORATORIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using 
the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic 
pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist the 
military departments in attracting and retaining high quality 
acquisition and technology experts in positions responsible for 
managing and performing complex, high-cost research and technology 
development efforts in the science and technology reinvention 
laboratories of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Approval Required.--The pilot program may be carried out in a 
military department only with the approval of the Service Acquisition 
Executive of the military department concerned.
    (c) Positions.--The positions described in this subsection are 
positions in the science and technology reinvention laboratories of the 
Department of Defense that--
        (1) require expertise of an extremely high level in a 
    scientific, technical, professional, or acquisition management 
    field; and
        (2) are critical to the successful accomplishment of an 
    important research or technology development mission.
    (d) Rate of Basic Pay.--The pay authority specified in this 
subsection is authority as follows:
        (1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a 
    rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for 
    level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the Service 
    Acquisition Executive concerned.
        (2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a 
    rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for 
    level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the 
    Secretary of the military department concerned.
    (e) Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--The authority in subsection (a) may be used 
    only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or retain 
    individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions described in 
    subsection (c).
        (2) Number of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) may 
    not be used with respect to more than five positions in each 
    military department at any one time.
        (3) Term of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) may be 
    used only for positions having a term of less than five years.
    (f) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--The authority to fix rates of basic pay for a 
    position under this section shall terminate on October 1, 2021.
        (2) Continuation of pay.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be 
    construed to prohibit the payment after October 1, 2021, of basic 
    pay at rates fixed under this section before that date for 
    positions having terms that continue after that date.
    (g) Science and Technology Reinvention Laboratories of the 
Department of Defense Defined.--In this section, the term ``science and 
technology reinvention laboratories of the Department of Defense'' 
means the laboratories designated as science and technology reinvention 
laboratories by section 1105(a) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 2358 note).
SEC. 1125. TEMPORARY DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR DOMESTIC DEFENSE 
INDUSTRIAL BASE FACILITIES, THE MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE, 
AND THE OFFICE OF THE DIRECTOR OF OPERATIONAL TEST AND EVALUATION.
    (a) Defense Industrial Base Facility and MRTFB.--During fiscal 
years 2017 and 2018, the Secretary of Defense may appoint, without 
regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, 
United States Code, other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title, 
qualified candidates to positions in the competitive service at any 
defense industrial base facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities 
Base.
    (b) Office of the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation.--
During fiscal years 2017 through 2021, the Secretary of Defense may, 
acting through the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, appoint 
qualified candidates possessing an advanced degree to scientific and 
engineering positions within the Office of the Director of Operational 
Test and Evaluation without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of 
chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, other than sections 3303 and 
3328 of such title.
    (c) Definition of Defense Industrial Base Facility.--In this 
section, the term ``defense industrial base facility'' means any 
Department of Defense depot, arsenal, or shipyard located within the 
United States.

                   Subtitle C--Governmentwide Matters

SEC. 1131. ELIMINATION OF TWO-YEAR ELIGIBILITY LIMITATION FOR 
NONCOMPETITIVE APPOINTMENT OF SPOUSES OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 3330d(c) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) No time limitation on appointment.--A relocating spouse 
    of a member of the Armed Forces remains eligible for noncompetitive 
    appointment under this section for the duration of the spouse's 
    relocation to the permanent duty station of the member.''.
SEC. 1132. TEMPORARY PERSONNEL FLEXIBILITIES FOR DOMESTIC DEFENSE 
INDUSTRIAL BASE FACILITIES AND MAJOR RANGE AND TEST FACILITIES BASE 
CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.
    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding chapter 33 of title 5, United 
States Code, or any other provision of law relating to the examination, 
certification, and appointment of individuals in the competitive 
service, during fiscal years 2017 and 2018, an employee of a defense 
industrial base facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base 
serving under a time-limited appointment in the competitive service is 
eligible to compete for a permanent appointment in the competitive 
service at (A) any such facility, Base, or any other component of the 
Department of Defense when such facility, Base, or component (as the 
case may be) is accepting applications from individuals within the 
facility, Base, or component's workforce under merit promotion 
procedures, or (B) any agency when the agency is accepting applications 
from individuals outside its own workforce under merit promotion 
procedures of the applicable agency, if--
        (1) the employee was appointed initially under open, 
    competitive examination under subchapter I of chapter 33 of such 
    title to the time-limited appointment;
        (2) the employee has served under 1 or more time-limited 
    appointments by a defense industrial base facility or the Major 
    Range and Test Facilities Base for a period or periods totaling 
    more than 24 months without a break of 2 or more years; and
        (3) the employee's performance has been at an acceptable level 
    of performance throughout the period or periods (as the case may 
    be) referred to in paragraph (2).
    (b) Waiver of Age Requirement.--In determining the eligibility of a 
time-limited employee under this section to be examined for or 
appointed in the competitive service, the Office of Personnel 
Management or other examining agency shall waive requirements as to 
age, unless the requirement is essential to the performance of the 
duties of the position.
    (c) Status.--An individual appointed under this section--
        (1) becomes a career-conditional employee, unless the employee 
    has otherwise completed the service requirements for career tenure; 
    and
        (2) acquires competitive status upon appointment.
    (d) Former Employees.--A former employee of a defense industrial 
base facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base who served 
under a time-limited appointment and who otherwise meets the 
requirements of this section shall be deemed a time-limited employee 
for purposes of this section if--
        (1) such employee applies for a position covered by this 
    section within the period of 2 years after the most recent date of 
    separation; and
        (2) such employee's most recent separation was for reasons 
    other than misconduct or performance.
    (e) Benefits.--Any employee of a defense industrial base facility 
or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base serving under a time-
limited appointment in the competitive service shall be provided with 
benefits that are comparable to the benefits provided to similar 
employees not serving under time-limited appointments at the defense 
industrial base facility or the Major Range and Test Facilities Base 
concerned, including professional development opportunities, 
eligibility for awards programs, and designation as status applicants 
for purposes of eligibility for positions in the civil service.
    (f) Definition of Defense Industrial Base Facility.--In this 
section, the term ``defense industrial base facility'' means any 
Department of Defense depot, arsenal, or shipyard located within the 
United States.
SEC. 1133. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL 
DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.
    Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
amended by section 1102 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1022), is further 
amended by striking ``2017'' and inserting ``2018''.
SEC. 1134. ADVANCE PAYMENTS FOR EMPLOYEES RELOCATING WITHIN THE UNITED 
STATES AND ITS TERRITORIES.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 5524a of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(a) The head'' and inserting ``(a)(1) The 
    head''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(2) The head of each agency may provide for the advance 
    payment of basic pay, covering not more than 4 pay periods, to an 
    employee who is assigned to a position in the agency that is 
    located--
            ``(A) outside of the employee's commuting area; and
            ``(B) in the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
        Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or any 
        territory or possession of the United States.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``or assigned'' after 
    ``appointed''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)(B)--
            (A) by inserting ``or assignment'' after ``appointment''; 
        and
            (B) by inserting ``or assigned'' after ``appointed''.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is amended by 
    inserting ``and employees relocating within the United States and 
    its territories'' after ``appointees''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The item relating to such section in 
    the table of sections of chapter 55 of such title is amended to 
    read as follows:

``5524a. Advance payments for new appointees and employees relocating 
          within the United States and its territories.''.
SEC. 1135. ELIGIBILITY OF EMPLOYEES IN A TIME-LIMITED APPOINTMENT TO 
COMPETE FOR A PERMANENT APPOINTMENT AT ANY FEDERAL AGENCY.
    Section 9602 of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a) by striking ``any land management agency 
    or any other agency (as defined in section 101 of title 31) under 
    the internal merit promotion procedures of the applicable agency'' 
    and inserting ``such land management agency when such agency is 
    accepting applications from individuals within the agency's 
    workforce under merit promotion procedures, or any agency, 
    including a land management agency, when the agency is accepting 
    applications from individuals outside its own workforce under the 
    merit promotion procedures of the applicable agency''; and
        (2) in subsection (d) by inserting ``of the agency from which 
    the former employee was most recently separated'' after ``deemed a 
    time-limited employee''.
SEC. 1136. REVIEW OF OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FILE OF FORMER FEDERAL 
EMPLOYEES BEFORE REHIRING.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 3330e. Review of official personnel file of former Federal 
     employees before rehiring
    ``(a) If a former Government employee is a candidate for a position 
within the competitive service or the excepted service, prior to making 
any determination with respect to the appointment or reinstatement of 
such employee to such position, the appointing authority shall review 
and consider merit-based information relating to such employee's former 
period or periods of service such as official personnel actions, 
employee performance ratings, and disciplinary actions, if any, in such 
employee's official personnel record file.
    ``(b) In subsection (a), the term `former Government employee' 
means an individual whose most recent position with the Government 
prior to becoming a candidate as described under subsection (a) was 
within the competitive service or the excepted service.
    ``(c) The Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe 
regulations to carry out the purpose of this section. Such regulations 
may not contain provisions that would increase the time required for 
agency hiring actions.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any former Government employee (as described in section 3330e of 
title 5, United States Code, as added by such subsection) appointed or 
reinstated on or after the date that is 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections of subchapter I of 
chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following:

``3330e. Review of official personnel file of former Federal employees 
          before rehiring.''.
SEC. 1137. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN 
EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.
    Section 1101(a) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most 
recently amended by section 1108 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1027), is 
further amended by striking ``through 2016'' and inserting ``through 
2017''.
SEC. 1138. ADMINISTRATIVE LEAVE.
    (a) Short Title.--This section may be cited as the ``Administrative 
Leave Act of 2016''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) agency use of administrative leave, and leave that is 
    referred to incorrectly as administrative leave in agency recording 
    practices, has exceeded reasonable amounts--
            (A) in contravention of--
                (i) established precedent of the Comptroller General of 
            the United States; and
                (ii) guidance provided by the Office of Personnel 
            Management; and
            (B) resulting in significant cost to the Federal 
        Government;
        (2) administrative leave should be used sparingly;
        (3) prior to the use of paid leave to address personnel issues, 
    an agency should consider other actions, including--
            (A) temporary reassignment; and
            (B) transfer;
        (4) an agency should prioritize and expeditiously conclude an 
    investigation in which an employee is placed in administrative 
    leave so that, not later than the conclusion of the leave period--
            (A) the employee is returned to duty status; or
            (B) an appropriate personnel action is taken with respect 
        to the employee;
        (5) data show that there are too many examples of employees 
    placed in administrative leave for 6 months or longer, leaving the 
    employees without any available recourse to--
            (A) return to duty status; or
            (B) challenge the decision of the agency;
        (6) an agency should ensure accurate and consistent recording 
    of the use of administrative leave so that administrative leave can 
    be managed and overseen effectively; and
        (7) other forms of excused absence authorized by law should be 
    recorded separately from administrative leave, as defined by the 
    amendments made by this section.
    (c) Administrative Leave.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 6329a. Administrative leave
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
        ``(1) the term `administrative leave' means leave--
            ``(A) without loss of or reduction in--
                ``(i) pay;
                ``(ii) leave to which an employee is otherwise entitled 
            under law; or
                ``(iii) credit for time or service; and
            ``(B) that is not authorized under any other provision of 
        law;
        ``(2) the term `agency'--
            ``(A) means an Executive agency (as defined in section 105 
        of this title);
            ``(B) includes the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            ``(C) does not include the Government Accountability 
        Office; and
        ``(3) the term `employee'--
            ``(A) has the meaning given the term in section 2105; and
            ``(B) does not include an intermittent employee who does 
        not have an established regular tour of duty during the 
        administrative workweek.
    ``(b) Administrative Leave.--
        ``(1) In general.--During any calendar year, an agency may 
    place an employee in administrative leave for a period of not more 
    than a total of 10 work days.
        ``(2) Records.--An agency shall record administrative leave 
    separately from leave authorized under any other provision of law.
    ``(c) Regulations.--
        ``(1) OPM regulations.--Not later than 270 calendar days after 
    the date of enactment of this section, the Director of the Office 
    of Personnel Management shall--
            ``(A) prescribe regulations to carry out this section; and
            ``(B) prescribe regulations that provide guidance to 
        agencies regarding--
                ``(i) acceptable agency uses of administrative leave; 
            and
                ``(ii) the proper recording of--

                    ``(I) administrative leave; and
                    ``(II) other leave authorized by law.

        ``(2) Agency action.--Not later than 270 calendar days after 
    the date on which the Director of the Office of Personnel 
    Management prescribes regulations under paragraph (1), each agency 
    shall revise and implement the internal policies of the agency to 
    meet the requirements of this section.
    ``(d) Relation to Other Laws.--Notwithstanding subsection (a) of 
section 7421 of title 38, this section shall apply to an employee 
described in subsection (b) of that section.''.
        (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of sections 
    for subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 6329 the 
    following:

``6329a. Administrative leave.''.

    (d) Investigative Leave and Notice Leave.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United 
    States Code, as amended by this section, is further amended by 
    adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 6329b. Investigative leave and notice leave
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
        ``(1) the term `agency'--
            ``(A) means an Executive agency (as defined in section 105 
        of this title);
            ``(B) includes the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            ``(C) does not include the Government Accountability 
        Office;
        ``(2) the term `Chief Human Capital Officer' means--
            ``(A) the Chief Human Capital Officer of an agency 
        designated or appointed under section 1401; or
            ``(B) the equivalent;
        ``(3) the term `committees of jurisdiction', with respect to an 
    agency, means each committee of the Senate or House of 
    Representatives with jurisdiction over the agency;
        ``(4) the term `Director' means the Director of the Office of 
    Personnel Management;
        ``(5) the term `employee'--
            ``(A) has the meaning given the term in section 2105; and
            ``(B) does not include--
                ``(i) an intermittent employee who does not have an 
            established regular tour of duty during the administrative 
            workweek; or
                ``(ii) the Inspector General of an agency;
        ``(6) the term `investigative entity' means--
            ``(A) an internal investigative unit of an agency granting 
        investigative leave under this section;
            ``(B) the Office of Inspector General of an agency granting 
        investigative leave under this section;
            ``(C) the Attorney General; and
            ``(D) the Office of Special Counsel;
        ``(7) the term `investigative leave' means leave--
            ``(A) without loss of or reduction in--
                ``(i) pay;
                ``(ii) leave to which an employee is otherwise entitled 
            under law; or
                ``(iii) credit for time or service;
            ``(B) that is not authorized under any other provision of 
        law; and
            ``(C) in which an employee who is the subject of an 
        investigation is placed;
        ``(8) the term `notice leave' means leave--
            ``(A) without loss of or reduction in--
                ``(i) pay;
                ``(ii) leave to which an employee is otherwise entitled 
            under law; or
                ``(iii) credit for time or service;
            ``(B) that is not authorized under any other provision of 
        law; and
            ``(C) in which an employee who is in a notice period is 
        placed; and
        ``(9) the term `notice period' means a period beginning on the 
    date on which an employee is provided notice required under law of 
    a proposed adverse action against the employee and ending on the 
    date on which an agency may take the adverse action.
    ``(b) Leave for Employees Under Investigation or in a Notice 
Period.--
        ``(1) Authority.--An agency may, in accordance with paragraph 
    (2), place an employee in--
            ``(A) investigative leave if the employee is the subject of 
        an investigation;
            ``(B) notice leave if the employee is in a notice period; 
        or
            ``(C) notice leave following a placement in investigative 
        leave if, not later than the day after the last day of the 
        period of investigative leave--
                ``(i) the agency proposes or initiates an adverse 
            action against the employee; and
                ``(ii) the agency determines that the employee 
            continues to meet 1 or more of the criteria described in 
            paragraph (2)(A).
        ``(2) Requirements.--An agency may place an employee in leave 
    under paragraph (1) only if the agency has--
            ``(A) made a determination with respect to the employee 
        that the continued presence of the employee in the workplace 
        during an investigation of the employee or while the employee 
        is in a notice period, as applicable, may--
                ``(i) pose a threat to the employee or others;
                ``(ii) result in the destruction of evidence relevant 
            to an investigation;
                ``(iii) result in loss of or damage to Government 
            property; or
                ``(iv) otherwise jeopardize legitimate Government 
            interests;
            ``(B) considered--
                ``(i) assigning the employee to duties in which the 
            employee no longer poses a threat described in clauses (i) 
            through (iv) of subparagraph (A);
                ``(ii) allowing the employee to take leave for which 
            the employee is eligible;
                ``(iii) if the employee is absent from duty without 
            approved leave, carrying the employee in absence without 
            leave status; and
                ``(iv) for an employee subject to a notice period, 
            curtailing the notice period if there is reasonable cause 
            to believe the employee has committed a crime for which a 
            sentence of imprisonment may be imposed; and
            ``(C) determined that none of the available options under 
        clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (B) is appropriate.
        ``(3) Duration of leave.--
            ``(A) Investigative leave.--Upon the expiration of the 10 
        work day period described in section 6329a(b)(1) with respect 
        to an employee, and if an agency determines that an extended 
        investigation of the employee is necessary, the agency may 
        place the employee in investigative leave for a period of not 
        more than 30 work days.
            ``(B) Notice leave.--Placement of an employee in notice 
        leave shall be for a period not longer than the duration of the 
        notice period.
        ``(4) Explanation of leave.--
            ``(A) In general.--If an agency places an employee in leave 
        under this subsection, the agency shall provide the employee a 
        written explanation of whether the employee was placed in 
        investigative leave or notice leave.
            ``(B) Explanation.--The written notice under subparagraph 
        (A) shall describe the limitations of the leave placement, 
        including--
                ``(i) the applicable limitations under paragraph (3); 
            and
                ``(ii) in the case of a placement in investigative 
            leave, an explanation that, at the conclusion of the period 
            of leave, the agency shall take an action under paragraph 
            (5).
        ``(5) Agency action.--Not later than the day after the last day 
    of a period of investigative leave for an employee under paragraph 
    (1), an agency shall--
            ``(A) return the employee to regular duty status;
            ``(B) take 1 or more of the actions under clauses (i) 
        through (iv) of paragraph (2)(B);
            ``(C) propose or initiate an adverse action against the 
        employee as provided under law; or
            ``(D) extend the period of investigative leave under 
        subsections (c) and (d).
        ``(6) Rule of construction.--Nothing in paragraph (5) shall be 
    construed to prevent the continued investigation of an employee, 
    except that the placement of an employee in investigative leave may 
    not be extended for that purpose except as provided in subsections 
    (c) and (d).
    ``(c) Initial Extension of Investigative Leave.--
        ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (4), if the Chief Human 
    Capital Officer of an agency, or the designee of the Chief Human 
    Capital Officer, approves such an extension after consulting with 
    the investigator responsible for conducting the investigation to 
    which an employee is subject, the agency may extend the period of 
    investigative leave for the employee under subsection (b) for not 
    more than 30 work days.
        ``(2) Maximum number of extensions.--The total period of 
    additional investigative leave for an employee under paragraph (1) 
    may not exceed 90 work days.
        ``(3) Designation guidance.--Not later than 270 days after the 
    date of enactment of this section, the Chief Human Capital Officers 
    Council shall issue guidance to ensure that if the Chief Human 
    Capital Officer of an agency delegates the authority to approve an 
    extension under paragraph (1) to a designee, the designee is at a 
    sufficiently high level within the agency to make an impartial and 
    independent determination regarding the extension.
        ``(4) Extensions for oig employees.--
            ``(A) Approval.--In the case of an employee of an Office of 
        Inspector General--
                ``(i) the Inspector General or the designee of the 
            Inspector General, rather than the Chief Human Capital 
            Officer or the designee of the Chief Human Capital Officer, 
            shall approve an extension of a period of investigative 
            leave for the employee under paragraph (1); or
                ``(ii) at the request of the Inspector General, the 
            head of the agency within which the Office of Inspector 
            General is located shall designate an official of the 
            agency to approve an extension of a period of investigative 
            leave for the employee under paragraph (1).
            ``(B) Guidance.--Not later than 270 calendar days after the 
        date of enactment of this section, the Council of the 
        Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency shall issue 
        guidance to ensure that if the Inspector General or the head of 
        an agency, at the request of the Inspector General, delegates 
        the authority to approve an extension under subparagraph (A) to 
        a designee, the designee is at a sufficiently high level within 
        the Office of Inspector General or the agency, as applicable, 
        to make an impartial and independent determination regarding 
        the extension.
    ``(d) Further Extension of Investigative Leave.--
        ``(1) Report.--After reaching the limit under subsection (c)(2) 
    and if an investigative entity submits a certification under 
    paragraph (2) of this subsection, an agency may further extend a 
    period of investigative leave for an employee for periods of not 
    more than 30 work days each if, not later than 5 business days 
    after granting each further extension, the agency submits to the 
    Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
    House of Representatives, along with any other committees of 
    jurisdiction, a report containing--
            ``(A) the title, position, office or agency subcomponent, 
        job series, pay grade, and salary of the employee;
            ``(B) a description of the duties of the employee;
            ``(C) the reason the employee was placed in investigative 
        leave;
            ``(D) an explanation as to why--
                ``(i) the employee poses a threat described in clauses 
            (i) through (iv) of subsection (b)(2)(A); and
                ``(ii) the agency is not able to reassign the employee 
            to another position within the agency;
            ``(E) in the case of an employee required to telework under 
        section 6502(c) during the investigation of the employee--
                ``(i) the reasons that the agency required the employee 
            to telework under that section; and
                ``(ii) the duration of the teleworking requirement;
            ``(F) the status of the investigation of the employee;
            ``(G) the certification described in paragraph (2); and
            ``(H) in the case of a completed investigation of the 
        employee--
                ``(i) the results of the investigation; and
                ``(ii) the reason that the employee remains in 
            investigative leave.
        ``(2) Certification.--If, after an employee has reached the 
    limit under subsection (c)(2), an investigative entity determines 
    that additional time is needed to complete the investigation of the 
    employee, the investigative entity shall--
            ``(A) certify to the appropriate agency that additional 
        time is needed to complete the investigation of the employee; 
        and
            ``(B) include in the certification an estimate of the 
        amount of time that is necessary to complete the investigation 
        of the employee.
        ``(3) No extensions after completion of investigation.--An 
    agency may not further extend a period of investigative leave of an 
    employee under paragraph (1) on or after the date that is 30 
    calendar days after the completion of the investigation of the 
    employee by an investigative entity.
    ``(e) Consultation Guidance.--Not later than 270 calendar days 
after the date of enactment of this section, the Council of the 
Inspectors General on Integrity and Efficiency, in consultation with 
the Attorney General and the Special Counsel, shall issue guidance on 
best practices for consultation between an investigator and an agency 
on the need to place an employee in investigative leave during an 
investigation of the employee, including during a criminal 
investigation, because the continued presence of the employee in the 
workplace during the investigation may--
        ``(1) pose a threat to the employee or others;
        ``(2) result in the destruction of evidence relevant to an 
    investigation;
        ``(3) result in loss of or damage to Government property; or
        ``(4) otherwise jeopardize legitimate Government interests.
    ``(f) Reporting and Records.--
        ``(1) In general.--An agency shall keep a record of the 
    placement of an employee in investigative leave or notice leave by 
    the agency, including--
            ``(A) the basis for the determination made under subsection 
        (b)(2)(A);
            ``(B) an explanation of why an action under clauses (i) 
        through (iv) of subsection (b)(2)(B) was not appropriate;
            ``(C) the length of the period of leave;
            ``(D) the amount of salary paid to the employee during the 
        period of leave;
            ``(E) the reasons for authorizing the leave, including, if 
        applicable, the recommendation made by an investigator under 
        subsection (c)(1);
            ``(F) whether the employee is required to telework under 
        section 6502(c) during the investigation, including the reasons 
        for requiring the employee to telework; and
            ``(G) the action taken by the agency at the end of the 
        period of leave, including, if applicable, the granting of any 
        extension of a period of investigative leave under subsection 
        (c) or (d).
        ``(2) Availability of records.--An agency shall make a record 
    kept under paragraph (1) available--
            ``(A) to any committee of jurisdiction, upon request;
            ``(B) to the Office of Personnel Management; and
            ``(C) as otherwise required by law, including for the 
        purposes of the Administrative Leave Act of 2016 and the 
        amendments made by that Act.
    ``(g) Recourse to the Office of Special Counsel.--For purposes of 
subchapter II of chapter 12 and section 1221, placement on 
investigative leave under subsection (b) of this section for a period 
of not less than 70 work days shall be considered a personnel action 
under paragraph (8) or (9) of section 2302(b).
    ``(h) Regulations.--
        ``(1) OPM action.--Not later than 270 calendar days after the 
    date of enactment of this section, the Director shall prescribe 
    regulations to carry out this section, including guidance to 
    agencies regarding--
            ``(A) acceptable purposes for the use of--
                ``(i) investigative leave; and
                ``(ii) notice leave;
            ``(B) the proper recording of--
                ``(i) the leave categories described in subparagraph 
            (A); and
                ``(ii) other leave authorized by law;
            ``(C) baseline factors that an agency shall consider when 
        making a determination that the continued presence of an 
        employee in the workplace may--
                ``(i) pose a threat to the employee or others;
                ``(ii) result in the destruction of evidence relevant 
            to an investigation;
                ``(iii) result in loss or damage to Government 
            property; or
                ``(iv) otherwise jeopardize legitimate Government 
            interests; and
            ``(D) procedures and criteria for the approval of an 
        extension of a period of investigative leave under subsection 
        (c) or (d).
        ``(2) Agency action.--Not later than 270 calendar days after 
    the date on which the Director prescribes regulations under 
    paragraph (1), each agency shall revise and implement the internal 
    policies of the agency to meet the requirements of this section.
    ``(i) Relation to Other Laws.--Notwithstanding subsection (a) of 
section 7421 of title 38, this section shall apply to an employee 
described in subsection (b) of that section.''.
        (2) GAO report.--Not later than 5 years after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, and every 5 years thereafter, the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate and the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the 
    House of Representatives a report on the results of an evaluation 
    of the implementation of the authority provided under sections 
    6329a and 6329b of title 5, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (c)(1) of this section and paragraph (1) of this 
    subsection, respectively, including--
            (A) the number of times that an agency, under subsection 
        (c)(1) of such section 6329b--
                (i) consulted with the investigator responsible for 
            conducting the investigation to which an employee was 
            subject with respect to the decision of the agency to grant 
            an extension under that subsection; and
                (ii) did not have a consultation described in clause 
            (i), including the reasons that the agency failed to have 
            such a consultation;
            (B) an assessment of the use of the authority provided 
        under subsection (d) of such section 6329b by agencies, 
        including data regarding the number and length of extensions 
        granted under that subsection;
            (C) an assessment of the compliance with the requirements 
        of subsection (f) of such section 6329b by agencies;
            (D) a review of the practice of agency placement of an 
        employee in investigative or notice leave under subsection (b) 
        of such section 6329b because of a determination under 
        subsection (b)(2)(A)(iv) of that section that the employee 
        jeopardized legitimate Government interests, including the 
        extent to which such determinations were supported by evidence; 
        and
            (E) an assessment of the effectiveness of subsection (g) of 
        such section 6329b in preventing and correcting the use of 
        extended investigative leave as a tool of reprisal for making a 
        protected disclosure or engaging in protected activity as 
        described in paragraph (8) or (9) of section 2302(b) of title 
        5, United States Code.
        (3) Telework.--Section 6502 of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Required Telework.--If an agency places an employee in 
investigative leave under section 6329b, the agency may require the 
employee to, through telework, perform duties similar to the duties 
that the employee performs on-site if--
        ``(1) the agency determines that such a requirement would not--
            ``(A) pose a threat to the employee or others;
            ``(B) result in the destruction of evidence relevant to an 
        investigation;
            ``(C) result in the loss of or damage to Government 
        property; or
            ``(D) otherwise jeopardize legitimate Government interests;
        ``(2) the employee is eligible to telework under subsections 
    (a) and (b) of this section; and
        ``(3) the agency determines that it would be appropriate for 
    the employee to perform the duties of the employee through 
    telework.''.
        (4) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of sections 
    for subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 6329a, as 
    added by this section, the following:

``6329b. Investigative leave and notice leave.''.

    (e) Weather and Safety Leave.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United 
    States Code, as amended by this section, is further amended by 
    adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 6329c. Weather and safety leave
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
        ``(1) the term `agency'--
            ``(A) means an Executive agency (as defined in section 105 
        of this title);
            ``(B) includes the Department of Veterans Affairs; and
            ``(C) does not include the Government Accountability 
        Office; and
        ``(2) the term `employee'--
            ``(A) has the meaning given the term in section 2105; and
            ``(B) does not include an intermittent employee who does 
        not have an established regular tour of duty during the 
        administrative workweek.
    ``(b) Leave for Weather and Safety Issues.--An agency may approve 
the provision of leave under this section to an employee or a group of 
employees without loss of or reduction in the pay of the employee or 
employees, leave to which the employee or employees are otherwise 
entitled, or credit to the employee or employees for time or service 
only if the employee or group of employees is prevented from safely 
traveling to or performing work at an approved location due to--
        ``(1) an act of God;
        ``(2) a terrorist attack; or
        ``(3) another condition that prevents the employee or group of 
    employees from safely traveling to or performing work at an 
    approved location.
    ``(c) Records.--An agency shall record leave provided under this 
section separately from leave authorized under any other provision of 
law.
    ``(d) Regulations.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
enactment of this section, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management shall prescribe regulations to carry out this section, 
including--
        ``(1) guidance to agencies regarding the appropriate purposes 
    for providing leave under this section; and
        ``(2) the proper recording of leave provided under this 
    section.
    ``(e) Relation to Other Laws.--Notwithstanding subsection (a) of 
section 7421 of title 38, this section shall apply to an employee 
described in subsection (b) of that section.''.
        (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of sections 
    for subchapter II of chapter 63 of title 5, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 6329b, as 
    added by this section, the following:

``6329c. Weather and safety leave.''.
SEC. 1139. DIRECT HIRING FOR FEDERAL WAGE SCHEDULE EMPLOYEES.
    The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall permit an 
agency with delegated examining authority under 1104(a)(2) of title 5, 
United States Code, to use direct-hire authority under section 
3304(a)(3) of such title for a permanent or non-permanent position or 
group of positions in the competitive services at GS-15 (or equivalent) 
and below, or for prevailing rate employees, if the Director determines 
that there is either a severe shortage of candidates or a critical 
hiring need for such positions.
SEC. 1140. RECORD OF INVESTIGATION OF PERSONNEL ACTION IN SEPARATED 
EMPLOYEE'S OFFICIAL PERSONNEL FILE.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 3321 the following:
``Sec. 3322. Voluntary separation before resolution of personnel 
    investigation
    ``(a) With respect to any employee occupying a position in the 
competitive service or the excepted service who is the subject of a 
personnel investigation and resigns from Government employment prior to 
the resolution of such investigation, the head of the agency from which 
such employee so resigns shall, if an adverse finding was made with 
respect to such employee pursuant to such investigation, make a 
permanent notation in the employee's official personnel record file. 
The head shall make such notation not later than 40 days after the date 
of the resolution of such investigation.
    ``(b) Prior to making a permanent notation in an employee's 
official personnel record file under subsection (a), the head of the 
agency shall--
        ``(1) notify the employee in writing within 5 days of the 
    resolution of the investigation and provide such employee a copy of 
    the adverse finding and any supporting documentation;
        ``(2) provide the employee with a reasonable time, but not less 
    than 30 days, to respond in writing and to furnish affidavits and 
    other documentary evidence to show why the adverse finding was 
    unfounded (a summary of which shall be included in any notation 
    made to the employee's personnel file under subsection (d)); and
        ``(3) provide a written decision and the specific reasons 
    therefore to the employee at the earliest practicable date.
    ``(c) An employee is entitled to appeal the decision of the head of 
the agency to make a permanent notation under subsection (a) to the 
Merit Systems Protection Board under section 7701.
    ``(d)(1) If an employee files an appeal with the Merit Systems 
Protection Board pursuant to subsection (c), the agency head shall make 
a notation in the employee's official personnel record file indicating 
that an appeal disputing the notation is pending not later than 2 weeks 
after the date on which such appeal was filed.
    ``(2) If the head of the agency is the prevailing party on appeal, 
not later than 2 weeks after the date that the Board issues the appeal 
decision, the head of the agency shall remove the notation made under 
paragraph (1) from the employee's official personnel record file.
    ``(3) If the employee is the prevailing party on appeal, not later 
than 2 weeks after the date that the Board issues the appeal decision, 
the head of the agency shall remove the notation made under paragraph 
(1) and the notation of an adverse finding made under subsection (a) 
from the employee's official personnel record file.
    ``(e) In this section, the term `personnel investigation' 
includes--
        ``(1) an investigation by an Inspector General; and
        ``(2) an adverse personnel action as a result of performance, 
    misconduct, or for such cause as will promote the efficiency of the 
    service under chapter 43 or chapter 75.''.
    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any employee described in section 3322 of title 5, United States 
Code, (as added by such subsection) who leaves the service after the 
date of enactment of this Act.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections of subchapter I of 
chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 3321 the following:

``3322. Voluntary separation before resolution of personnel 
          investigation.''.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition forces 
          supporting certain United States military operations.
Sec. 1202. Special Defense Acquisition Fund matters.
Sec. 1203. Codification of authority for support of special operations 
          to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1204. Independent evaluation of strategic framework for Department 
          of Defense security cooperation.
Sec. 1205. Sense of Congress regarding an assessment, monitoring, and 
          evaluation framework for security cooperation.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
          Program.
Sec. 1212. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
          produced in countries along a major route of supply to 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1213. Extension and modification of authority to transfer defense 
          articles and provide defense services to the military and 
          security forces of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Special immigrant status for certain Afghans.
Sec. 1215. Modification to semiannual report on enhancing security and 
          stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Prohibition on use of funds for certain programs and projects 
          of the Department of Defense in Afghanistan that cannot be 
          safely accessed by United States Government personnel.
Sec. 1217. Improvement of oversight of United States Government efforts 
          in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1218. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.

          Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

Sec. 1221. Modification and extension of authority to provide assistance 
          to the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1222. Modification and extension of authority to provide assistance 
          to counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
Sec. 1223. Extension and modification of authority to support operations 
          and activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1224. Limitation on provision of man-portable air defense systems 
          to the vetted Syrian opposition during fiscal year 2017.
Sec. 1225. Modification of annual report on military power of Iran.
Sec. 1226. Quarterly report on confirmed ballistic missile launches from 
          Iran.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1231. Military response options to Russian Federation violation of 
          INF Treaty.
Sec. 1232. Limitation on military cooperation between the United States 
          and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1233. Extension and modification of authority on training for 
          Eastern European national military forces in the course of 
          multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1234. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
          of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1235. Annual report on military and security developments involving 
          the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1236. Limitation on use of funds to vote to approve or otherwise 
          adopt any implementing decision of the Open Skies Consultative 
          Commission and related requirements.
Sec. 1237. Extension and enhancement of Ukraine Security Assistance 
          Initiative.
Sec. 1238. Reports on INF Treaty and Open Skies Treaty.

    Subtitle E--Reform of Department of Defense Security Cooperation

Sec. 1241. Enactment of new chapter for defense security cooperation.
Sec. 1242. Military-to-military exchanges.
Sec. 1243. Consolidation and revision of authorities for payment of 
          personnel expenses necessary for theater security cooperation.
Sec. 1244. Transfer and revision of certain authorities on payment of 
          expenses of training and exercises with friendly foreign 
          forces.
Sec. 1245. Transfer and revision of authority to provide operational 
          support to forces of friendly foreign countries.
Sec. 1246. Department of Defense State Partnership Program.
Sec. 1247. Transfer of authority on Regional Defense Combating Terrorism 
          Fellowship Program.
Sec. 1248. Consolidation of authorities for service academy 
          international engagement.
Sec. 1249. Consolidated annual budget for security cooperation programs 
          and activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1250. Department of Defense security cooperation workforce 
          development.
Sec. 1251. Reporting requirements.
Sec. 1252. Quadrennial review of security sector assistance programs and 
          authorities of the United States Government.
Sec. 1253. Other conforming amendments and authority for administration.

                   Subtitle F--Human Rights Sanctions

Sec. 1261. Short title.
Sec. 1262. Definitions.
Sec. 1263. Authorization of imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 1264. Reports to Congress.
Sec. 1265. Sunset.

                    Subtitle G--Miscellaneous Reports

Sec. 1271. Modification of annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the People's Republic of China.
Sec. 1272. Monitoring and evaluation of overseas humanitarian, disaster, 
          and civic aid programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1273. Strategy for United States defense interests in Africa.
Sec. 1274. Report on the potential for cooperation between the United 
          States and Israel on directed energy capabilities.
Sec. 1275. Annual update of Department of Defense Freedom of Navigation 
          Report.
Sec. 1276. Assessment of proliferation of certain remotely piloted 
          aircraft systems.

                        Subtitle H--Other Matters

Sec. 1281. Enhancement of interagency support during contingency 
          operations and transition periods.
Sec. 1282. Two-year extension and modification of authorization of non-
          conventional assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1283. Authority to destroy certain specified World War II-era 
          United States-origin chemical munitions located on San Jose 
          Island, Republic of Panama.
Sec. 1284. Sense of Congress on military exchanges between the United 
          States and Taiwan.
Sec. 1285. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
          Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1286. Prohibition on use of funds to invite, assist, or otherwise 
          assure the participation of Cuba in certain joint or 
          multilateral exercises.
Sec. 1287. Global Engagement Center.
Sec. 1288. Modification of United States International Broadcasting Act 
          of 1994.
Sec. 1289. Redesignation of South China Sea Initiative.
Sec. 1290. Measures against persons involved in activities that violate 
          arms control treaties or agreements with the United States.
Sec. 1291. Agreements with foreign governments to develop land-based 
          water resources in support of and in preparation for 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 1292. Enhancing defense and security cooperation with India.
Sec. 1293. Coordination of efforts to develop free trade agreements with 
          sub-Saharan African countries.
Sec. 1294. Extension and expansion of authority to support border 
          security operations of certain foreign countries.
Sec. 1295. Modification and clarification of United States-Israel anti-
          tunnel cooperation authority.
Sec. 1296. Maintenance of prohibition on procurement by Department of 
          Defense of People's Republic of China-origin items that meet 
          the definition of goods and services controlled as munitions 
          items when moved to the ``600 series'' of the Commerce Control 
          List.
Sec. 1297. International sales process improvements.
Sec. 1298. Efforts to end modern slavery.

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF LOGISTICAL SUPPORT FOR COALITION 
FORCES SUPPORTING CERTAIN UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394), as most recently amended 
by section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1035), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2017'';
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``during the period 
    beginning on October 1, 2015, and ending on December 31, 2016'' and 
    inserting ``during the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and 
    ending on December 31, 2017''; and
        (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
SEC. 1202. SPECIAL DEFENSE ACQUISITION FUND MATTERS.
    (a) Increase in Size.--Effective as of October 1, 2016, paragraph 
(1) of section 114(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$1,070,000,000'' and inserting ``$2,500,000,000''.
    (b) Limited Availability of Certain Amounts.--Such section is 
further amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``limitation in paragraph 
    (1)'' and inserting ``limitations in paragraphs (1) and (3)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) Of the amount available in the Special Defense Acquisition 
Fund in any fiscal year after fiscal year 2016, $500,000,000 may be 
used in such fiscal year only to procure and stock precision guided 
munitions that may be required by partner and allied forces to enhance 
the effectiveness of current or future contributions of such forces to 
overseas contingency operations conducted or supported by the United 
States.''.
    (c) Reports.--
        (1) Initial plan on use of authority.--Before exercising 
    authority for use of amounts in the Special Defense Acquisition 
    Fund in excess of the size of that Fund as of September 30, 2016, 
    by reason of the amendments made by this section, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
    plan for the use of such amounts.
        (2) Quarterly spending plan.--Not later than 30 days before the 
    beginning of each fiscal year quarter, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, submit to 
    the appropriate committees of Congress a detailed plan for the use 
    of amounts in the Special Defense Acquisition Fund for such fiscal 
    year quarter.
        (3) Annual updates.--Not later than 90 days after the end of 
    each fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall, with the 
    concurrence of the Secretary of State, submit to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a report setting forth the inventory of 
    defense articles and services acquired, possessed, and transferred 
    through the Special Defense Acquisition Fund in such fiscal year.
        (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 301(1) of title 10, United 
    States Code (as added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act).
SEC. 1203. CODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
TO COMBAT TERRORISM.
    (a) Codification of Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by inserting before section 128 the following new section:
``Sec. 127e. Support of special operations to combat terrorism
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
concurrence of the relevant Chief of Mission, expend up to $100,000,000 
during any fiscal year to provide support to foreign forces, irregular 
forces, groups, or individuals engaged in supporting or facilitating 
ongoing military operations by United States special operations forces 
to combat terrorism.
    ``(b) Funds.--Funds for support under this section in a fiscal year 
shall be derived from amounts authorized to be appropriated for that 
fiscal year for the Department of Defense for operation and 
maintenance.
    ``(c) Procedures.--The authority in this section shall be exercised 
in accordance with such procedures as the Secretary shall establish for 
purposes of this section. The Secretary shall notify the congressional 
defense committees of any material modification of such procedures.
    ``(d) Notification.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 15 days before exercising the 
    authority in this section to make funds available to initiate 
    support of an approved military operation or changing the scope or 
    funding level of any support for such an operation by $1,000,000 or 
    an amount equal to 20 percent of such funding level (whichever is 
    less), or not later than 48 hours after exercising such authority 
    if the Secretary determines that extraordinary circumstances that 
    impact the national security of the United States exist, the 
    Secretary shall notify the congressional defense committees of the 
    use of such authority with respect to that operation. Any such 
    notification shall be in writing.
        ``(2) Elements.--A notification required by this subsection 
    shall include the following:
            ``(A) The type of support provided or to be provided to 
        United States special operations forces.
            ``(B) The type of support provided or to be provided to the 
        recipient of the funds.
            ``(C) The amount obligated under the authority to provide 
        support.
    ``(e) Limitation on Delegation.--The authority of the Secretary to 
make funds available under this section for support of a military 
operation may not be delegated.
    ``(f) Intelligence Activities.--This section does not constitute 
authority to conduct a covert action, as such term is defined in 
section 503(e) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3093(e)).
    ``(g) Biannual Reports.--
        ``(1) Report on preceding calendar year.--Not later than March 
    1 each year, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report on the support provided under this 
    section during the preceding calendar year.
        ``(2) Report on current calendar year.--Not later than 
    September 1 each year, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the support provided 
    under this section during the first half of the calendar year in 
    which the report is submitted.
        ``(3) Elements.--Each report required by this subsection shall 
    include, for the period covered by such report, the following:
            ``(A) A summary of the ongoing military operations by 
        United States special operations forces to combat terrorism 
        that were supported or facilitated by foreign forces, irregular 
        forces, groups, or individuals for which support was provided 
        under this section.
            ``(B) A description of the support or facilitation provided 
        by such foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
        individuals to United States special operations forces.
            ``(C) The type of recipients that were provided support 
        under this section, identified by authorized category (foreign 
        forces, irregular forces, groups, or individuals).
            ``(D) The total amount obligated for support under this 
        section, including budget details.
            ``(E) The total amount obligated in prior fiscal years 
        under this section and applicable preceding authority.
            ``(F) The intended duration of support provided under this 
        section.
            ``(G) A description of the support or training provided to 
        the recipients of support under this section.
            ``(H) A value assessment of the support provided under this 
        section, including a summary of significant activities 
        undertaken by foreign forces, irregular forces, groups, or 
        individuals to support operations by United States special 
        operations forces to combat terrorism.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 3 of such title is amended by inserting before the item 
    relating to section 128 the following new item:

``127e. Support of special operations to combat terrorism.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Authority.--Section 1208 of the Ronald W. 
Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public 
Law 108-375) is repealed.
SEC. 1204. INDEPENDENT EVALUATION OF STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION.
    (a) Evaluation Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter into an 
    agreement with a federally funded research and development center, 
    or another appropriate independent entity, with expertise in 
    security cooperation to conduct an evaluation of the implementation 
    of the strategic framework for Department of Defense security 
    cooperation, as directed by section 1202 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
    Stat. 1036; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
        (2) Elements.--The evaluation under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) An evaluation of the Department of Defense's 
        implementation of each of the required elements of the 
        strategic framework.
            (B) An evaluation of the impact of the strategic framework 
        on Department of Defense security cooperation activities, 
        including the extent to which such activities are being 
        planned, prioritized, and executed in accordance with the 
        strategic framework.
            (C) Recommendations of areas in which additional guidance, 
        or additional specificity within existing guidance, is 
        necessary to achieve greater alignment between Department of 
        Defense security cooperation activities and the strategic goals 
        and priorities identified within the strategic framework.
            (D) Any other matters the entity that conducts the 
        evaluation considers appropriate.
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than November 1, 2018, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees, 
    the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee 
    on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that 
    includes the evaluation under subsection (a) and any other matters 
    the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1205. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING AN ASSESSMENT, MONITORING, AND 
EVALUATION FRAMEWORK FOR SECURITY COOPERATION.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense should develop and maintain an 
    assessment, monitoring, and evaluation framework for security 
    cooperation with foreign countries to ensure accountability and 
    foster implementation of best practices; and
        (2) such framework--
            (A) should be consistent with interagency approaches and 
        existing best practices;
            (B) should be sufficiently resourced and appropriately 
        placed within the Department of Defense to enable the rigorous 
        examination and measurement of security cooperation efforts 
        towards meeting stated objectives and outcomes; and
            (C) should be used to inform security cooperation planning, 
        policies, and resource decisions as well as ensure the 
        effectiveness and efficiency of security cooperation efforts.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
PROGRAM.
    (a) Extension.--Section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1619), as most 
recently amended by section 1211 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1042), is 
further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``During fiscal year 2016'' and inserting 
        ``During the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on 
        December 31, 2018''; and
            (B) by striking ``in such fiscal year'' and inserting ``in 
        such period'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2017 and fiscal year 2018''; and
        (3) in subsection (f), by striking ``in fiscal year 2016'' and 
    inserting ``during the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and 
    ending on December 31, 2018''.
    (b) Authority for Certain Payments To Redress Injury and Loss in 
Afghanistan, Iraq, and Syria.--
        (1) In general.--During the period beginning on October 1, 
    2016, and ending on December 31, 2018, amounts available pursuant 
    to section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by this section, shall also be 
    available for ex gratia payments for damage, personal injury, or 
    death that is incident to combat operations of the Armed Forces in 
    Afghanistan, Iraq, or Syria.
        (2) Notice.--The Secretary of Defense shall, upon each exercise 
    of the authority in this subsection, submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a report setting forth the following:
            (A) The amount that will be used for payments pursuant to 
        this subsection.
            (B) The manner in which claims for payments shall be 
        verified.
            (C) The officers or officials who shall be authorized to 
        approve claims for payments.
            (D) The manner in which payments shall be made.
        (3) Authorities applicable to payment.--Any payment made 
    pursuant to this subsection shall be made in accordance with the 
    authorities and limitations in section 8121 of the Department of 
    Defense Appropriations Act, 2015 (division C of Public Law 113-
    235), other than subsection (h) of such section.
        (4) Construction with restriction on amount of payments.--For 
    purposes of the application of subsection (e) of such section 1201, 
    as so amended, to any payment pursuant to this subsection, such 
    payment shall be deemed to be a project described by such 
    subsection (e).
SEC. 1212. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
PRODUCED IN COUNTRIES ALONG A MAJOR ROUTE OF SUPPLY TO AFGHANISTAN.
    Section 801(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2399), as most recently amended 
by section 1214 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1045), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
SEC. 1213. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE 
ARTICLES AND PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY 
FORCES OF AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Expiration.--Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1992), as most recently amended by section 1215 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 1045), is further amended by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
    (b) Conversion of Quarterly Reports Into Annual Reports.--Effective 
on January 1, 2017, subsection (f) of such section 1222, as so amended, 
is further amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Quarterly'' and 
    inserting ``Annual''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``Not later than 90 days'' and all that 
        follows through ``in which the authority in subsection (a) is 
        exercised'' and inserting ``Not later than March 31 of any year 
        following a year in which the authority in subsection (a) is 
        exercised''; and
            (B) by striking ``during the 90-day period ending on the 
        date of such report'' and inserting ``during the preceding 
        year''.
    (c) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such section 
1222, as so amended, is further amended by striking ``During fiscal 
years 2013, 2014, 2015, and 2016'' each place it appears and inserting 
``Through December 31, 2017,''.
SEC. 1214. SPECIAL IMMIGRANT STATUS FOR CERTAIN AFGHANS.
    (a) Aliens Described.--Section 602(b)(2)(A)(ii)(I) of the Afghan 
Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended to read 
as follows:

                    ``(I)(aa) by, or on behalf of, the United States 
                Government, in the case of an alien submitting an 
                application for Chief of Mission approval pursuant to 
                subparagraph (D) before the date of the enactment of 
                the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
                2017; or
                    ``(bb) by, or on behalf of, the United States 
                Government, in the case of an alien submitting an 
                application for Chief of Mission approval pursuant to 
                subparagraph (D) on or after the date of the enactment 
                of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
                Year 2017, which employment required the alien--

                        ``(AA) to serve as an interpreter or translator 
                    for personnel of the Department of State or the 
                    United States Agency for International Development 
                    in Afghanistan, particularly while traveling away 
                    from United States embassies or consulates with 
                    such personnel;
                        ``(BB) to serve as an interpreter or translator 
                    for United States military personnel in 
                    Afghanistan, particularly while traveling off-base 
                    with such personnel; or
                        ``(CC) to perform sensitive and trusted 
                    activities for the United States Government in 
                    Afghanistan; or''.
    (b) Numerical Limitations.--Section 602(b)(3)(F) of such Act is 
amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding clause (i), by striking ``7,000'' 
    and inserting ``8,500''; and
        (2) in each of clauses (i) and (ii), by striking ``December 31, 
    2016;'' and inserting ``December 31, 2020''.
    (c) Report.--Section 602(b)(14) of such Act is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this paragraph,'' and inserting ``Not later than 
    December 31, 2016, and annually thereafter through January 31, 
    2021,''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking ``under this section;'' 
    and inserting ``under subclause (I) or (II)(bb) of paragraph 
    (2)(A)(ii);''.
SEC. 1215. MODIFICATION TO SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCING SECURITY AND 
STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Reports Required.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 1225 of the 
Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3550) is 
amended by striking ``December 15, 2017'' and inserting ``December 15, 
2019''.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(8) Afghan personnel and pay system.--A description of the 
    status of the implementation of the Afghan Personnel and Pay System 
    (APPS) at the Afghan Ministry of Interior and the Afghan Ministry 
    of Defense for personnel funds provided through the Afghanistan 
    Security Forces Fund, including, with respect to each such 
    Ministry--
            ``(A) the expected completion date for full implementation 
        of the APPS;
            ``(B) the extent to which the APPS is being utilized;
            ``(C) an explanation of any challenges or delays affecting 
        full implementation of the APPS;
            ``(D) a description of the steps taken to mitigate fraud, 
        waste, and abuse in the disbursement of personnel funds prior 
        to full implementation of the APPS; and
            ``(E) an estimate of cost savings by reason of full 
        implementation of the APPS.''.
SEC. 1216. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN PROGRAMS AND 
PROJECTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE IN AFGHANISTAN THAT CANNOT BE 
SAFELY ACCESSED BY UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT PERSONNEL.
    (a) Prohibition.--
        (1) In general.--Amounts available to the Department of Defense 
    may not be obligated or expended for a construction or other 
    infrastructure program or project of the Department in Afghanistan 
    if military or civilian personnel of the United States Government 
    or their representatives with authority to conduct oversight of 
    such program or project cannot safely access such program or 
    project.
        (2) Applicability.--Paragraph (1) shall apply only with respect 
    to a program or project that is initiated on or after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The prohibition in subsection (a) may be 
    waived with respect to a program or project otherwise covered by 
    that subsection if a determination described in paragraph (2) is 
    made as follows:
            (A) In the case of a program or project with an estimated 
        lifecycle cost of less than $1,000,000, by the contracting 
        officer assigned to oversee the program or project.
            (B) In the case of a program or project with an estimated 
        lifecycle cost of $1,000,000 or more, but less than 
        $20,000,000, by the Commander of the Combined Security 
        Transition Command-Afghanistan.
            (C) In the case of a program or project with an estimated 
        lifecycle cost of $20,000,000 or more, but less than 
        $40,000,000, by the Commander of United States Forces-
        Afghanistan.
            (D) In the case of a program or project with an estimated 
        lifecycle cost of $40,000,000 or more, by the Secretary of 
        Defense.
        (2) Determination.--A determination described in this paragraph 
    with respect to a program or project is a determination of each of 
    the following:
            (A) That the program or project clearly contributes to 
        United States national interests or strategic objectives.
            (B) That the Government of Afghanistan has requested or 
        expressed a need for the program or project.
            (C) That the program or project has been coordinated with 
        the Government of Afghanistan, and with any other implementing 
        agencies or international donors.
            (D) That security conditions permit effective 
        implementation and oversight of the program or project.
            (E) That the program or project includes safeguards to 
        detect, deter, and mitigate corruption and waste, fraud, and 
        abuse of funds.
            (F) That adequate arrangements have been made for the 
        sustainment of the program or project following its completion, 
        including arrangements with respect to funding and technical 
        capacity for sustainment.
            (G) That meaningful metrics have been established to 
        measure the progress and effectiveness of the program or 
        project in meeting its objectives.
        (3) Notice on certain waivers.--In the event a waiver is issued 
    under paragraph (1) for a program or project described in 
    subparagraph (D) of that paragraph, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    notify Congress of the waiver not later than 15 days after the 
    issuance of the waiver.
SEC. 1217. IMPROVEMENT OF OVERSIGHT OF UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT EFFORTS 
IN AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Report on IG Oversight Activities in Afghanistan During Fiscal 
Year 2017.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Lead Inspector General for Operation Freedom's Sentinel, 
as designated pursuant to section 8L of the Inspector General Act of 
1978 (5 U.S.C. App.), shall, in coordination with the Inspector General 
of the Department of State, the Inspector General of the United States 
Agency for International Development, and the Special Inspector General 
for Afghanistan Reconstruction, submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report on the oversight activities of United States 
Inspectors General in Afghanistan planned for fiscal year 2017.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of the requirements, responsibilities, and 
    focus areas of each Inspector General of the United States planning 
    to conduct oversight activities in Afghanistan during fiscal year 
    2017.
        (2) A comprehensive list of the funding to be used for the 
    oversight activities described in paragraph (1).
        (3) A list of the oversight activities and products anticipated 
    to be produced by each Inspector General of the United States in 
    connection with oversight activities in Afghanistan during fiscal 
    year 2017.
        (4) An identification of any anticipated overlap among the 
    planned oversight activities of Inspectors General of the United 
    States in Afghanistan during fiscal year 2017, and a justification 
    for such overlap.
        (5) A description of the processes by which the Inspectors 
    General of the United States coordinate and reduce redundancies in 
    requests for information to United States Government officials 
    executing funds in Afghanistan.
        (6) A description of the specific professional standards 
    expected to be used to ensure the quality of different types of 
    products issued by the Inspectors General regarding Afghanistan, 
    including periodic reports to Congress and audits of Federal 
    establishments, organizations, programs, activities, and functions.
        (7) Any other matters the Lead Inspector General for Operation 
    Freedom's Sentinel considers appropriate.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
    Affairs, and the Committee Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee 
    Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1218. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1212 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 1043), is further amended by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and 
inserting ``the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on 
December 31, 2017,''.
    (b) Modification of Authorities.--Such section, as so amended, is 
further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``the Secretary of Defense 
    may reimburse any key cooperating nation'' and all that follows and 
    inserting ``the Secretary of Defense may reimburse--
        ``(1) any key cooperating nation (other than Pakistan) for--
            ``(A) logistical and military support provided by that 
        nation to or in connection with United States military 
        operations in Afghanistan, Iraq, or Syria; and
            ``(B) logistical, military, and other support, including 
        access, provided by that nation to or in connection with United 
        States military operations described in subparagraph (A); and
        ``(2) Pakistan for certain activities meant to enhance the 
    security situation in the Afghanistan-Pakistan border region and 
    for counterterrorism.''; and
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``in Iraq or in Operation 
    Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan'' and inserting ``in Afghanistan, 
    Iraq, or Syria''.
    (c) Limitation on Amounts Available.--Subsection (d)(1) of such 
section, as so amended, is further amended--
        (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``during fiscal year 
    2016 may not exceed $1,160,000,000'' and inserting ``during the 
    period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 
    2017, may not exceed $1,100,000,000'';
        (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and 
    inserting ``the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on 
    December 31, 2017,''; and
        (3) by striking the first sentence.
    (d) Reimbursement of Pakistan for Security Enhancement 
Activities.--Such section, as so amended, is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), and (g) as 
    subsections (f), (g), and (h), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following:
    ``(e) Reimbursement of Pakistan for Security Enhancement 
Activities.--
        ``(1) Activities.--Reimbursement authorized by subsection 
    (a)(2) may be provided for activities as follows:
            ``(A) Counterterrorism activities, including the following:
                ``(i) Eliminating infrastructure, training areas, and 
            sanctuaries used by terrorist groups, and preventing the 
            establishment of new or additional infrastructure, training 
            areas, and sanctuaries.
                ``(ii) Direct action against individuals that are 
            involved in or supporting terrorist activities.
                ``(iii) Any other activity recognized by the Secretary 
            of Defense as a counterterrorism activity for purposes of 
            subsection (a)(2).
            ``(B) Border security activities along the Afghanistan-
        Pakistan border, including the following:
                ``(i) Building and maintaining border outposts.
                ``(ii) Strengthening cooperative efforts between the 
            Pakistan military and the Afghan National Defense and 
            Security Forces, including border security cooperation.
                ``(iii) Maintaining access to and securing key ground 
            lines of communication.
                ``(iv) Providing training and equipment for the 
            Pakistan Frontier Corps Khyber Pakhtunkhwa.
                ``(v) Improving interoperability between the Pakistan 
            military and the Pakistan Frontier Corps Khyber 
            Pakhtunkhwa.
            ``(C) Any activities carried out by the Pakistan military 
        that the Secretary of Defense determines and reports to the 
        appropriate congressional committees have enhanced the security 
        of United States personnel stationed in Afghanistan or enhanced 
        the effectiveness of United States military personnel in 
        conducting counterterrorism operations and training, advising, 
        and assisting the Afghan National Defense and Security Forces.
        ``(2) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2017, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
    a report on the expenditure of funds under the authority in 
    subsection (a)(2), including a description of the following:
            ``(A) The purpose for which such funds were expended.
            ``(B) Each organization on whose behalf such funds were 
        expended, including the amount expended on such organization 
        and the number of members of such organization supported by 
        such amount.
            ``(C) Any limitation imposed on the expenditure of funds 
        under subsection (a)(2), including on any recipient of funds or 
        any use of funds expended.
        ``(3) Information on claims disallowed or deferred by the 
    united states.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
        the appropriate congressional committees, in the manner 
        specified in subparagraph (B), an itemized description of the 
        costs claimed by the Government of Pakistan for activities 
        specified in paragraph (1) provided by Government of Pakistan 
        to the United States for which the United States will disallow 
        or defer reimbursement to the Government of Pakistan under the 
        authority in subsection (a)(2).
            ``(B) Manner of submittal.--
                ``(i) In general.--To the maximum extent practicable, 
            the Secretary shall submit each itemized description of 
            costs required by subparagraph (A) not later than 180 days 
            after the date on which a decision to disallow or defer 
            reimbursement for the costs claimed is made.
                ``(ii) Form.--Each itemized description of costs under 
            clause (i) shall be submitted in an unclassified form, but 
            may include a classified annex.''.
    (e) Extension of Notice Requirement Relating to Reimbursement of 
Pakistan for Support Provided by Pakistan.--Section 1232(b)(6) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 
393), as most recently amended by section 1212(c) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (129 Stat. 1043), is 
further amended by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2017''.
    (f) Extension of Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification on Pakistan.--Section 1227(d)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2001), as most recently amended by section 1212(d) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (129 Stat. 1043), is 
further amended by striking ``for fiscal year 2016 or any prior fiscal 
year'' and inserting ``for any period prior to December 31, 2017''.
    (g) Additional Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification on Pakistan.--Of the total amount of reimbursements and 
support authorized for Pakistan during the period beginning on October 
1, 2016, and ending on December 31, 2017, pursuant to the third 
sentence of section 1233(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (as amended by subsection (b)(2)), 
$400,000,000 shall not be eligible for the waiver under section 
1227(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2013 (126 Stat. 2001) unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to the 
congressional defense committees that--
        (1) Pakistan continues to conduct military operations that are 
    contributing to significantly disrupting the safe haven and freedom 
    of movement of the Haqqani Network in Pakistan;
        (2) Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to 
    prevent the Haqqani Network from using any Pakistani territory as a 
    safe haven;
        (3) the Government of Pakistan actively coordinates with the 
    Government of Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, 
    such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border; 
    and
        (4) Pakistan has shown progress in arresting and prosecuting 
    Haqqani Network senior leaders and mid-level operatives.

         Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria, Iraq, and Iran

SEC. 1221. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
ASSISTANCE TO THE VETTED SYRIAN OPPOSITION.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 1209 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3541) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
    (b) Reprogramming Requirement.--Subsection (f) of such section, as 
amended by section 1225(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1055), is further 
amended in paragraph (1) by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
SEC. 1222. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE 
ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND THE LEVANT.
    (a) Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
    (b) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section, as amended by section 
1223 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1049), is further amended--
        (1) by striking the first sentence and inserting the following: 
    ``Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated in the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 for Overseas 
    Contingency Operations in title XV for fiscal year 2017, there are 
    authorized to be appropriated $630,000,000 to carry out this 
    section.''; and
        (2) by striking the second sentence.
    (c) Additional Assessment on Certain Actions by Government of 
Iraq.--Subsection (l) of such section, as added by section 1223(e) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92; 129 Stat. 1050), is amended in paragraph (1)(A) by striking 
``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016'' and 
inserting ``National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, 
and annually thereafter''.
    (d) Prohibition on Assistance and Report on Equipment or Supplies 
Transferred to or Acquired by Violent Extremist Organizations.--
Subsection (f) of section 1223 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1050) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``, as so amended,''; and
            (B) by inserting ``(and annually thereafter until December 
        31, 2018)'' after ``certifies to the appropriate congressional 
        committees, after the date of the enactment of this Act''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``, as so amended,''.
SEC. 1223. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT 
OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN 
IRAQ.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 1215 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81; 125 Stat. 1631; 10 U.S.C. 113 note), as most recently amended 
by section 1221 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1047), is further amended by 
striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2017''.
    (b) Limitation on Amount.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2017''; and
        (2) by striking ``$80,000,000'' and inserting ``$70,000,000''.
    (c) Source of Funds.--Subsection (d) of such section is amended by 
striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2017''.
SEC. 1224. LIMITATION ON PROVISION OF MAN-PORTABLE AIR DEFENSE SYSTEMS 
TO THE VETTED SYRIAN OPPOSITION DURING FISCAL YEAR 2017.
    (a) Notice and Wait.--If a determination is made during fiscal year 
2017 to use funds available to the Department of Defense for that 
fiscal year to provide man-portable air defense systems (MANPADs) to 
the vetted Syrian opposition pursuant to the authority in section 1209 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3541), such funds may not be used for that purpose until--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State jointly 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
    determination; and
        (2) 30 days elapses after the date of the submittal of such 
    report to the appropriate congressional committees.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall set forth the 
following:
        (1) A description of each element of the vetted Syrian 
    opposition that will provided man-portable air defense systems as 
    described in subsection (a), including--
            (A) the geographic location of such element;
            (B) a detailed intelligence assessment of such element;
            (C) a description of the alignment of such element within 
        the broader conflict in Syria; and
            (D) a description and assessment of the assurance, if any, 
        received by the commander of such element in connection with 
        the provision of man-portable air defense systems.
        (2) The number and type of man-portable air defense systems to 
    be so provided.
        (3) The logistics plan for providing and resupplying each 
    element to be so provided man-portable air defense systems with 
    additional man-portable air defense systems.
        (4) The duration of support to be provided in connection with 
    the provision of man-portable air defense systems.
        (5) The justification for the provision of man-portable air 
    defense systems to each element of the vetted Syrian opposition, 
    including an explanation of the purpose and expected employment of 
    such systems.
        (6) Any other matters that the Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of State jointly consider appropriate.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 1209(e)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015.
SEC. 1225. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY POWER OF IRAN.
    (a) In General.--Section 1245(b)(3) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended 
by striking subparagraph (F) and inserting the following new 
subparagraph (F):
            ``(F) Iran's cyber capabilities, including--
                ``(i) Iran's ability to use proxies and other actors to 
            mask its cyber operations;
                ``(ii) Iran's ability to target United States 
            governmental and nongovernmental entities and activities; 
            and
                ``(iii) cooperation with or assistance from state and 
            non-state actors in support or enhancement of Iran's cyber 
            capabilities;''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on January 1, 2018, and shall apply with respect to reports 
required to be submitted under section 1245 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 on or after that date.
SEC. 1226. QUARTERLY REPORT ON CONFIRMED BALLISTIC MISSILE LAUNCHES 
FROM IRAN.
    (a) Quarterly Report on Confirmed Launches.--Not later than the 
last day of the first fiscal year quarter beginning after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Director 
of National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report describing any confirmed ballistic missile launch by 
Iran during the previous calendar quarter.
    (b) Quarterly Report on Imposition of Sanctions in Connection With 
Launches.--Not later than the last day of the second fiscal year 
quarter beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act, and 
every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of State and the Secretary of 
Treasury shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of Congress 
a report setting forth a description of the following:
        (1) The efforts, if any, to impose unilateral sanctions against 
    appropriate entities or individuals in connection with a confirmed 
    ballistic missile launch from Iran.
        (2) The diplomatic efforts, if any, to impose multilateral 
    sanctions against appropriate entities or individuals in connection 
    with such a confirmed ballistic missile launch.
        (3) Any other matters the Secretaries consider appropriate.
    (c) Concurrent Submittal of Quarterly Reports.--The report on a 
calendar quarter under subsection (a) shall be submitted concurrently 
with the report on the calendar quarter under subsection (b).
    (d) Form.--Each report under this section shall, to the extent 
practicable, be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.
    (e) Sunset.--No report is required under this section after 
December 31, 2019.
    (f) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, 
    and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, the Committee on Financial Services, and the Permanent 
    Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.

         Subtitle D--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

SEC. 1231. MILITARY RESPONSE OPTIONS TO RUSSIAN FEDERATION VIOLATION OF 
INF TREATY.
    An amount equal to $10,000,000 of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense 
for fiscal year 2017 to provide support services to the Executive 
Office of the President shall be withheld from obligation or 
expenditure until the Secretary of Defense completes the meaningful 
development of the military capabilities described in paragraph (1) of 
section 1243(d) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1062), as required to be 
addressed in the plan under that paragraph, in accordance with the 
requirements described in paragraph (3) of such section.
SEC. 1232. LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES 
AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of Defense may be used for any 
bilateral military-to-military cooperation between the Governments of 
the United States and the Russian Federation until the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
        (1) the Russian Federation has ceased its occupation of 
    Ukrainian territory and its aggressive activities that threaten the 
    sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and members of the 
    North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
        (2) the Russian Federation is abiding by the terms of and 
    taking steps in support of the Minsk Protocols regarding a 
    ceasefire in eastern Ukraine.
    (b) Nonapplicability.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to--
        (1) any activities necessary to ensure the compliance of the 
    United States with its obligations or the exercise of rights of the 
    United States under any bilateral or multilateral arms control or 
    nonproliferation agreement or any other treaty obligation of the 
    United States; and
        (2) any activities required to provide logistical or other 
    support to the conduct of United States or North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization military operations in Afghanistan or the withdrawal 
    from Afghanistan.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in 
subsection (a) if the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State--
        (1) determines that the waiver is in the national security 
    interest of the United States; and
        (2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees--
            (A) a notification that the waiver is in the national 
        security interest of the United States and a description of the 
        national security interest covered by the waiver; and
            (B) a report explaining why the Secretary of Defense cannot 
        make the certification under subsection (a).
    (d) Exception for Certain Military Bases.--The certification 
requirement specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall not 
apply to military bases of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's Crimean 
peninsula operating in accordance with its 1997 agreement on the Status 
and Conditions of the Black Sea Fleet Stationing on the Territory of 
Ukraine.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1233. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY ON TRAINING FOR 
EASTERN EUROPEAN NATIONAL MILITARY FORCES IN THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL 
EXERCISES.
    (a) Forces Eligible for Training.--Subsection (a) of section 1251 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public 
Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1070; 10 U.S.C. 2282 note) is amended by striking 
``national military forces'' and inserting ``national security 
forces''.
    (b) Additional Source of Funding.--Subsection (d)(2) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal 
        year for overseas contingency operations for operation and 
        maintenance, Army, and available for additional activities for 
        the European Deterrence Initiative for that fiscal year.''.
    (c) One-Year Extension.--Subsection (h) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting 
    ``September 30, 2018''; and
        (2) by striking ``through 2017'' and inserting ``through 
    2018''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
to read as follows:
``SEC. 1251. TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN NATIONAL SECURITY FORCES IN 
THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL EXERCISES.''.
SEC. 1234. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER CRIMEA.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any 
activity that recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
Crimea.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, may waive the restriction on the obligation or 
expenditure of funds required by subsection (a) if the Secretary--
        (1) determines that to do so is in the national security 
    interest of the United States; and
        (2) submits to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
    Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on 
    Armed Services and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives a notification of the waiver at the time the waiver 
    is invoked.
SEC. 1235. ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY DEVELOPMENTS 
INVOLVING THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Additional Matters To Be Included in Report.--Subsection (b) of 
section 1245 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
Stat. 3566), as amended by section 1248 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
1066), is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (10) through (18) as paragraphs 
    (12) through (20), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following new 
    paragraphs:
        ``(10) In consultation with the Secretary of State, the 
    Secretary of the Treasury, and the Director of National 
    Intelligence, an assessment of Russia's diplomatic, economic, and 
    intelligence operations in Ukraine.
        ``(11) A summary of all Russian foreign military deployments, 
    as of the date that is one month before the date of submission of 
    the report, including for each deployment the estimated number of 
    forces deployed, the types of capabilities deployed (including any 
    advanced weapons), the length of deployment as of such date, and, 
    if known, any basing agreement with the host nation.'';
        (3) by striking paragraph (14), as redesignated by paragraph 
    (1) of this subsection, and inserting the following new paragraph:
        ``(14) An analysis of the nuclear strategy and associated 
    doctrine of Russia and of the capabilities, range, and readiness of 
    all Russian nuclear systems and delivery methods.''; and
        (4) in paragraph (18)(B), as redesignated by paragraph (1) of 
    this subsection, by striking ``day before the date of submission of 
    the report'' and inserting ``date that is one month before the date 
    of submission of the report''.
    (b) Publishing Requirement.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as 
    subsections (e), (f), and (g), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(d) Publishing Requirement.--Upon submission of the report 
required under subsection (a) in both classified and unclassified form, 
the Secretary of Defense shall publish the unclassified form on the 
website of the Department of Defense.''.
    (c) Sunset.--Subsection (g) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended by striking ``June 1, 
2018'' and inserting ``January 31, 2021''.
SEC. 1236. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS TO VOTE TO APPROVE OR OTHERWISE 
ADOPT ANY IMPLEMENTING DECISION OF THE OPEN SKIES CONSULTATIVE 
COMMISSION AND RELATED REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available by this Act or any other Act for fiscal year 
2017 or any subsequent fiscal year may be used to vote to approve or 
otherwise adopt any implementing decision of the Open Skies 
Consultative Commission pursuant to Article X of the Open Skies Treaty 
to authorize approval of requests by state parties to the Treaty to 
certify infra-red or synthetic aperture radar sensors pursuant to 
Article IV of the Treaty unless and until the Secretary of Defense, 
jointly with the relevant United States Government officials, submits 
to the appropriate congressional committees the following:
        (1) A certification that the implementing decision would not be 
    detrimental or otherwise harmful to the national security of the 
    United States.
        (2) A report on the Open Skies Treaty that includes the 
    following:
            (A) The annual costs to the United States associated with 
        countermeasures to combat potential abuses of observation 
        flights by the Russian Federation carried out under the Treaty 
        over European and United States territories involving infra-red 
        or synthetic aperture radar sensors.
            (B) A plan, and its estimated comparative cost, to replace 
        the Treaty architecture with a more robust sharing of overhead 
        commercial imagery, consistent with United States national 
        security, with covered state parties, excluding the Russian 
        Federation.
            (C) An evaluation by the Director of National Intelligence 
        of matters concerning how an observation flight described in 
        subparagraph (A) could implicate intelligence activities of the 
        Russian Federation in the United States and United States 
        counterintelligence activities and vulnerabilities.
            (D) An assessment of how such information is used by the 
        Russian Federation, for what purpose, and how the information 
        fits into the Russian Federation's overall collection posture.
    (b) Certification.--Not later than 90 days before the date on which 
the United States votes to approve or otherwise adopt any implementing 
decision of the Open Skies Consultative Commission as described in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of State shall--
        (1) submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    certification that--
            (A) the Russian Federation--
                (i) is not taking any actions that are inconsistent 
            with the terms of the Open Skies Treaty;
                (ii) is not exceeding the imagery limits set forth in 
            the Treaty; and
                (iii) is allowing observation flights by covered state 
            parties over all of Moscow, Chechnya, Kaliningrad and 
            within 10 kilometers of its border with Georgia's occupied 
            territories of Abkhazia and South Ossetia without 
            restriction and without inconsistency to requirements under 
            the Treaty; and
            (B) covered state parties have been notified and briefed on 
        concerns of the intelligence community (as defined in section 3 
        of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003)) 
        regarding infra-red or synthetic aperture radar sensors used 
        under the Open Skies Treaty; or
        (2) if the Secretary of State is unable to make a certification 
    under paragraph (1), submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a report that contains the reasons why the Secretary 
    cannot make such certification and a justification why it is in the 
    national interest of the United States to vote to approve or 
    otherwise adopt such implementing decision.
    (c) Quarterly Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, jointly with the 
    Secretary of Energy, the Secretary of Homeland Security, the 
    Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, and the Director 
    of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees on a quarterly basis a report on all 
    observation flights by the Russian Federation over the United 
    States during the preceding calendar quarter.
        (2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following with respect to each such observation flight:
            (A) A description of the flight path.
            (B) An analysis of whether and the extent to which any 
        United States critical infrastructure was the subject of image 
        capture activities of such observation flight.
            (C) An estimate for the mitigation costs imposed on the 
        Department of Defense or other United States Government 
        agencies by such observation flight.
            (D) An assessment of how such information is used by the 
        Russian Federation, for what purpose, and how the information 
        fits into the Russian Federation's overall collection posture.
        (3) Sunset.--The requirements of this subsection shall 
    terminate 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (d) Additional Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--Not more than 65 percent of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available by this 
    Act or any other Act for fiscal year 2017 may be used to carry out 
    any activities to implement the Open Skies Treaty until the 
    requirements described in paragraph (2) are met.
        (2) Requirements described.--The requirements described in this 
    paragraph are the following:
            (A) The Director of National Intelligence and the Director 
        of the National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency jointly submit 
        to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
        following:
                (i) Whether it is possible, consistent with United 
            States national security interests, to provide enhanced 
            access to United States commercial imagery or other United 
            States capabilities, consistent with the protection of 
            sources and methods and United States national security, to 
            covered state parties that is qualitatively similar to that 
            derived by observation flights over the territory of the 
            United States or over the territory of a covered state 
            party under the Open Skies Treaty, on a more timely basis.
                (ii) What the cost would be to provide enhanced access 
            to such commercial imagery or other capabilities as 
            compared to the current imagery sharing through the Treaty.
                (iii) Whether any new agreements would be needed to 
            provide enhanced access to such commercial imagery or other 
            capabilities and what would be required to obtain such 
            agreements.
                (iv) Whether transitioning to such commercial imagery 
            or other capabilities from the current imagery sharing 
            through the Treaty would reduce opportunities by the 
            Russian Federation to exceed imagery limits and reduce 
            utility for Russian intelligence collection against the 
            United States or covered state parties.
                (v) How such commercial imagery or other capabilities 
            would compare to the current imagery sharing through the 
            Treaty.
            (B) The Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
        Director of the National Geospatial Intelligence Agency and the 
        Secretary of Defense, submits to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report that--
                (i) details the costs for implementation of the Open 
            Skies Treaty, including--

                    (I) mitigation costs relating to national security; 
                and
                    (II) aircraft, sensors, and related overhead and 
                implementation costs for covered state parties; and

                (ii) describes the impact on contributions and 
            participation by covered state parties and relationships 
            among covered state parties in the context of the Open 
            Skies Treaty, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, and 
            any other venues for United States partnership dialogue and 
            activity.
    (e) Form.--Each certification, report, and notice required under 
this section shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
classified annex if necessary.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Covered state party.--The term ``covered state party'' 
    means a foreign country that--
            (A) is a state party to the Open Skies Treaty; and
            (B) is a United States ally.
        (3) Infra-red or synthetic aperture radar sensor.--The term 
    ``infra-red or synthetic aperture radar sensor'' means a sensor 
    that is classified as--
            (A) an infra-red line-scanning device under category C of 
        paragraph 1 of Article IV of the Open Skies Treaty; or
            (B) a sideways-looking synthetic aperture radar under 
        category D of paragraph 1 of Article IV of the Open Skies 
        Treaty.
        (4) Observation flight.--The term ``observation flight'' has 
    the meaning given such term in Article II of the Open Skies Treaty.
        (5) Open skies treaty; treaty.--The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' 
    or ``Treaty'' means the Treaty on Open Skies, done at Helsinki 
    March 24, 1992, and entered into force January 1, 2002.
        (6) Relevant united states government officials.--The term 
    ``relevant United States Government officials'' means the 
    following:
            (A) The Secretary of Energy.
            (B) The Secretary of Homeland Security.
            (C) The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            (D) The Director of National Intelligence.
            (E) The Commander of U.S. Strategic Command and the 
        Commander of U.S. Northern Command in the case of an 
        observation flight over the territory of the United States.
            (F) The Commander of U.S. European Command in the case of 
        an observation flight other than an observation flight 
        described in subparagraph (E).
        (7) Sensor.--The term ``sensor'' has the meaning given such 
    term in Article II of the Open Skies Treaty.
SEC. 1237. EXTENSION AND ENHANCEMENT OF UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE 
INITIATIVE.
    (a) Funding.--Section 1250 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1068) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Of the amounts'' and all 
    that follows through ``shall be available to'' and inserting 
    ``Amounts available for a fiscal year under subsection (f) shall be 
    available to'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (h); and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Funding.--From amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
fiscal year concerned for the Department of Defense for overseas 
contingency operations, up to the following shall be available for 
purposes of subsection (a):
        ``(1) For fiscal year 2016, $300,000,000.
        ``(2) For fiscal year 2017, $350,000,000.''.
    (b) Additional Authorized Assistance.--Subsection (b) of such 
section is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(10) Equipment and technical assistance to the State Border 
    Guard Service of Ukraine for the purpose of developing a 
    comprehensive border surveillance network for Ukraine.
        ``(11) Training for staff officers and senior leadership of the 
    military.''.
    (c) Availability of Funds.--Subsection (c) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
    following new paragraphs:
        ``(1) Assistance for ukraine.--Not more than $175,000,000 of 
    the funds available for fiscal year 2017 pursuant to subsection 
    (f)(2) may be used for purposes of subsection (a) until the 
    certification described in paragraph (2) is made.
        ``(2) Certification.--The certification described in this 
    paragraph is a certification by the Secretary of Defense, in 
    coordination with the Secretary of State, that the Government of 
    Ukraine has taken substantial actions to make defense institutional 
    reforms, in such areas as civilian control of the military, 
    cooperation and coordination with Verkhovna Rada efforts to 
    exercise oversight of the Ministry of Defense and military forces, 
    increased transparency and accountability in defense procurement, 
    and improvement in transparency, accountability, and potential 
    opportunities for privatization in the defense industrial sector, 
    for purposes of decreasing corruption, increasing accountability, 
    and sustaining improvements of combat capability enabled by 
    assistance under subsection (a). The certification shall include an 
    assessment of the substantial actions taken to make such defense 
    institutional reforms and the areas in which additional action is 
    needed.'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the matter preceding 
    subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
        ``(3) Other purposes.--If in fiscal year 2017 funds are not 
    available for purposes of subsection (a) by reason of the lack of a 
    certification described in paragraph (2), such funds may be used in 
    that fiscal year for the purposes as follows, with not more than 
    $100,000,000 available for the purposes as follows for any 
    particular country:''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Notice to congress.--Not later than 15 days before 
    providing assistance or support under paragraph (3), the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees, 
    the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee 
    on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a notification 
    containing the following:
            ``(A) The recipient foreign country.
            ``(B) A detailed description of the assistance or support 
        to be provided, including--
                ``(i) the objectives of such assistance or support;
                ``(ii) the budget for such assistance or support; and
                ``(iii) the expected or estimated timeline for delivery 
            of such assistance or support.
            ``(C) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.''.
    (d) Construction With Other Authority.--Such section is further 
amended by inserting after subsection (f), as amended by subsection 
(a)(3) of this section, the following new subsection (g):
    ``(g) Construction With Other Authority.--The authority to provide 
assistance and support pursuant to subsection (a), and the authority to 
provide assistance and support under subsection (c), is in addition to 
authority to provide assistance and support under title 10, United 
States Code, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, the Arms Export 
Control Act, or any other provision of law.''.
    (e) Extension.--Subsection (h) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (a)(2) of this section, is amended by striking ``December 
31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2018''.
    (f) Extension of Reports on Military Assistance to Ukraine.--
Section 1275(e) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3592), as amended by section 1250(g) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016, is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``January 31, 2021''.
SEC. 1238. REPORTS ON INF TREATY AND OPEN SKIES TREATY.
    (a) Reports.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees the following 
reports:
        (1) A report on the Open Skies Treaty containing--
            (A) an assessment, conducted by the Chairman jointly with 
        the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, of whether 
        and why the Treaty remains in the national security interest of 
        the United States, including if there are compliance concerns 
        related to implementation of the Treaty by the Russian 
        Federation;
            (B) a specific plan by the Chairman jointly with the 
        Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State on remedying 
        any such compliance concerns; and
            (C) a military assessment conducted by the Chairman of such 
        compliance concerns.
        (2) A report on the INF Treaty containing--
            (A) an assessment, conducted by the Chairman jointly with 
        the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State, of whether 
        and why the Treaty remains in the national security interest of 
        the United States, including how any ongoing violations bear on 
        the assessment if such a violation is not resolved in the near-
        term;
            (B) a specific plan by the Chairman jointly with the 
        Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State to remedy 
        violation of the Treaty by the Russian Federation, and a 
        judgment of whether the Russian Federation intends to take the 
        steps required to establish verifiable evidence that the 
        Russian Federation has resumed its compliance with the Treaty 
        if such non-compliance and inconsistencies are not resolved by 
        the date of the enactment of this Act; and
            (C) a military assessment conducted by the Chairman of the 
        risks posed by violation of the Treaty by the Russian 
        Federation.
    (b) Update.--Not later than February 15, 2018, the Chairman, the 
Secretary of Defense, and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees an update to each report 
under subsection (a).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of 
        the Senate.
        (2) The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty Between the United 
    States of America and the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics on 
    the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range and Shorter-Range 
    Missiles, commonly referred to as the ``Intermediate-Range Nuclear 
    Forces (INF) Treaty'', signed at Washington December 8, 1987, and 
    entered into force June 1, 1988.
        (3) The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' means the Treaty on Open 
    Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and entered into force 
    January 1, 2002.

    Subtitle E--Reform of Department of Defense Security Cooperation

SEC. 1241. ENACTMENT OF NEW CHAPTER FOR DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION.
    (a) Statutory Reorganization.--Part I of subtitle A of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating chapters 13, 15, 17, and 18 as chapters 
    12, 13, 14, and 15, respectively;
        (2) by redesignating sections 261, 311, 312, 331, 332, 333, 
    334, 335, 351, 371, 372, 373, 374, 375, 376, 377, 378, 379, 380, 
    381, 382, 383, and 384 (as added by section 1011 of this Act) as 
    sections 241, 246, 247, 251, 252, 253, 254, 255, 261, 271, 272, 
    273, 274, 275, 276, 277, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283, and 284, 
    respectively; and
        (3) by inserting after chapter 15, as redesignated by paragraph 
    (1), the following new chapter:

                   ``CHAPTER 16--SECURITY COOPERATION

``Subchapter
                                                                    Sec.
``I. General Matters..............................................   301

``II. Military-to-Military Engagements............................   311

``III. Training With Foreign Forces...............................   321

``IV. Support for Operations and Capacity Building................   331

``V.  Educational and Training Activities.........................   341

``VI. Limitations on Use of Department of Defense Funds...........   361

``VII. Administrative and Miscellaneous Matters...................   381

                    ``SUBCHAPTER I--GENERAL MATTERS

``Sec.
``301. Definitions.
``Sec. 301. Definitions
    ``In this chapter:
        ``(1) The terms `appropriate congressional committees' and 
    `appropriate committees of Congress' mean--
            ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.
        ``(2) The term `defense article' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
    U.S.C. 2403).
        ``(3) The term `defense service' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 644 of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
    U.S.C. 2403).
        ``(4) The term `developing country' has the meaning prescribed 
    by the Secretary of Defense for purposes of this chapter in 
    accordance with section 1241(n) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
        ``(5) The term `incremental expenses', with respect to a 
    foreign country--
            ``(A) means the reasonable and proper costs of rations, 
        fuel, training ammunition, transportation, and other goods and 
        services consumed by the country as a direct result of the 
        country's participation in activities authorized by this 
        chapter; and
            ``(B) does not include--
                ``(i) any form of lethal assistance (excluding training 
            ammunition); or
                ``(ii) pay, allowances, and other normal costs of the 
            personnel of the country.
        ``(6) The term `national security forces', in the case of a 
    foreign country, means the following:
            ``(A) National military and national-level security forces 
        of the foreign country that have the functional 
        responsibilities for which training is authorized in section 
        333(a) of this title.
            ``(B) With respect to operations referred to in section 
        333(a)(2) of this title, military and civilian first responders 
        of the foreign country at the national or local level that have 
        such operations among their functional responsibilities.
        ``(7) The term `security cooperation programs and activities of 
    the Department of Defense' means any program, activity (including 
    an exercise), or interaction of the Department of Defense with the 
    security establishment of a foreign country to achieve a purpose as 
    follows:
            ``(A) To build and develop allied and friendly security 
        capabilities for self-defense and multinational operations.
            ``(B) To provide the armed forces with access to the 
        foreign country during peacetime or a contingency operation.
            ``(C) To build relationships that promote specific United 
        States security interests.
        ``(8) The term `small-scale construction' means construction at 
    a cost not to exceed $750,000 for any project.
        ``(9) The term `training' has the meaning given the term 
    `military education and training' in section 644 of the Foreign 
    Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2403).

           ``SUBCHAPTER II--MILITARY-TO-MILITARY ENGAGEMENTS

``Sec.
``311. Exchange of defense personnel between United States and friendly 
          foreign countries: authority.
``312. Payment of personnel expenses necessary for theater security 
          cooperation.
``313. Bilateral or regional cooperation programs: awards and mementos 
          to recognize superior noncombat achievements or performance.

             ``SUBCHAPTER III--TRAINING WITH FOREIGN FORCES

``Sec.
``321. Training with friendly foreign countries: payment of training and 
          exercise expenses.
``322. Special operations forces: training with friendly foreign forces.

     ``SUBCHAPTER IV--SUPPORT FOR OPERATIONS AND CAPACITY BUILDING

``Sec.
``331. Friendly foreign countries: authority to provide support for 
          conduct of operations.
``332. Friendly foreign countries; international and regional 
          organizations: defense institution capacity building.
``333. Foreign security forces: authority to build capacity.

          ``SUBCHAPTER V--EDUCATIONAL AND TRAINING ACTIVITIES

``Sec.
``341. Department of Defense State Partnership Program.
``342. Regional centers for security studies.
``343. Western Hemisphere Institute for Security Cooperation.
``344. Participation in multinational military centers of excellence.
``345. Regional Defense Combating Terrorism Fellowship Program.
``346. Distribution to certain foreign personnel of education and 
          training materials and information technology to enhance 
          military interoperability with the armed forces.
``347. International engagement authorities for service academies.
``348. Aviation Leadership Program.
``349. Inter-American Air Forces Academy.
``350. Inter-European Air Forces Academy.

   ``SUBCHAPTER VI--LIMITATIONS ON USE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FUNDS

``Sec.
``361. Prohibition on providing financial assistance to terrorist 
          countries.
``362. Prohibition on use of funds for assistance to units of foreign 
          security forces that have committed a gross violation of human 
          rights.

       ``SUBCHAPTER VII--ADMINISTRATIVE AND MISCELLANEOUS MATTERS

``Sec.
``381. Consolidated budget.
``382. Execution and administration of programs and activities.
``383. Assessment, monitoring, and evaluation of programs and 
          activities.
``384. Department of Defense security cooperation workforce development.
``385. Department of Defense support for other departments and agencies 
          of the United States Government that advance Department of 
          Defense security cooperation objectives.
``386. Annual report.''.

    (b) Transfer of Section 1051b.--Section 1051b of title 10, United 
States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as added by 
subsection (a)(3), inserted after the table of sections at the 
beginning of subchapter II of such chapter, and redesignated as section 
313.
    (c) Codification of Section 1081 of FY 2012 NDAA.--
        (1) Codification.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, 
    as added by subsection (a)(3), is amended by inserting after the 
    table of sections at the beginning of subchapter IV a new section 
    332 consisting of--
            (A) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 332. Friendly foreign countries; international and regional 
   organizations: defense institution capacity building''; and
            (B) a text consisting of the text of subsections (a), (b), 
        and (d) of section 1081 of the National Defense Authorization 
        Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 168 note).
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 332 of title 10, United 
    States Code, as so amended, is further amended by redesignating 
    subsection (d) as subsection (c).
        (3) Conforming repeal.--Section 1081 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 is repealed.
    (d) Superseding Authority To Train and Equip Foreign Security 
Forces.--
        (1) Superseding authority.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United 
    States Code, as added by subsection (a)(3), is amended by inserting 
    after section 332, as added by subsection (c), the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 333. Foreign security forces: authority to build capacity
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to conduct 
or support a program or programs to provide training and equipment to 
the national security forces of one or more foreign countries for the 
purpose of building the capacity of such forces to conduct one or more 
of the following:
        ``(1) Counterterrorism operations.
        ``(2) Counter-weapons of mass destruction operations.
        ``(3) Counter-illicit drug trafficking operations.
        ``(4) Counter-transnational organized crime operations.
        ``(5) Maritime and border security operations.
        ``(6) Military intelligence operations.
        ``(7) Operations or activities that contribute to an 
    international coalition operation that is determined by the 
    Secretary to be in the national interest of the United States.
    ``(b) Concurrence and Coordination With Secretary of State.--
        ``(1) Concurrence in conduct of programs.--The concurrence of 
    the Secretary of State is required to conduct or support any 
    program authorized by subsection (a).
        ``(2) Joint development and planning of programs.--The 
    Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly 
    develop and plan any program carried out pursuant to subsection 
    (a).
        ``(3) Implementation of programs.--The Secretary of Defense and 
    the Secretary of State shall coordinate the implementation of any 
    program under subsection (a). The Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of State shall each designate an individual responsible 
    for program coordination under this paragraph at the lowest 
    appropriate level in the Department concerned.
        ``(4) Coordination in preparation of certain notices.--Any 
    notice required by this section to be submitted to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress shall be prepared in coordination with the 
    Secretary of State.
    ``(c) Types of Capacity Building.--
        ``(1) Authorized elements.--A program under subsection (a) may 
    include the provision and sustainment of defense articles, 
    training, defense services, supplies (including consumables), and 
    small-scale construction.
        ``(2) Required elements.--A program under subsection (a) shall 
    include elements that promote the following:
            ``(A) Observance of and respect for the law of armed 
        conflict, human rights and fundamental freedoms, and the rule 
        of law.
            ``(B) Respect for civilian control of the military.
        ``(3) Human rights training.--In order to meet the requirement 
    in paragraph (2)(A) with respect to particular national security 
    forces under a program under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
    Defense shall certify, prior to the initiation of the program, that 
    the Department of Defense is already undertaking, or will undertake 
    as part of the security sector assistance provided to the foreign 
    country concerned, human rights training that includes a 
    comprehensive curriculum on human rights and the law of armed 
    conflict, as applicable, to such national security forces.
        ``(4) Institutional capacity building.--In order to meet the 
    requirement in paragraph (2)(B) with respect to a particular 
    foreign country under a program under subsection (a), the Secretary 
    shall certify, prior to the initiation of the program, that the 
    Department is already undertaking, or will undertake as part of the 
    program, a program of institutional capacity building with 
    appropriate institutions of such foreign country that is 
    complementary to the program with respect to such foreign country 
    under subsection (a). The purpose of the program of institutional 
    capacity building shall be to enhance the capacity of such foreign 
    country to exercise responsible civilian control of the national 
    security forces of such foreign country.
    ``(d) Limitations.--
        ``(1) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.--The Secretary of 
    Defense may not use the authority in subsection (a) to provide any 
    type of assistance described in subsection (c) that is otherwise 
    prohibited by any provision of law.
        ``(2) Prohibition on assistance to units that have committed 
    gross violations of human rights.--The provision of assistance 
    pursuant to a program under subsection (a) shall be subject to the 
    provisions of section 362 of this title.
        ``(3) Duration of sustainment support.--Sustainment support may 
    not be provided pursuant to a program under subsection (a), or for 
    equipment previously provided by the Department of Defense under 
    any authority available to the Secretary during fiscal year 2015 or 
    2016, for a period in excess of five years unless the notice on the 
    program pursuant to subsection (e) includes the information 
    specified in paragraph (7) of subsection (e).
    ``(e) Notice and Wait on Activities Under Programs.--Not later than 
15 days before initiating activities under a program under subsection 
(a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a written and electronic notice of the 
following:
        ``(1) The foreign country, and specific unit, whose capacity to 
    engage in activities specified in subsection (a) will be built 
    under the program, and the amount, type, and purpose of the support 
    to be provided.
        ``(2) A detailed evaluation of the capacity of the foreign 
    country and unit to absorb the training or equipment to be provided 
    under the program.
        ``(3) The cost, implementation timeline, and delivery schedule 
    for assistance under the program.
        ``(4) A description of the arrangements, if any, for the 
    sustainment of the program and the estimated cost and source of 
    funds to support sustainment of the capabilities and performance 
    outcomes achieved under the program beyond its completion date, if 
    applicable.
        ``(5) Information, including the amount, type, and purpose, on 
    the security assistance provided the foreign country during the 
    three preceding fiscal years pursuant to authorities under this 
    title, the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, and any other train and 
    equip authorities of the Department of Defense.
        ``(6) A description of the elements of the theater security 
    cooperation plan of the geographic combatant command concerned, and 
    of the interagency integrated country strategy, that will be 
    advanced by the program.
        ``(7) In the case of a program described in subsection (d)(3), 
    each of the following:
            ``(A) A written justification that the provision of 
        sustainment support described in that subsection for a period 
        in excess of five years will enhance the security interest of 
        the United States.
            ``(B) To the extent practicable, a plan to transition such 
        sustainment support from funding through the Department to 
        funding through another security sector assistance program of 
        the United States Government or funding through partner 
        nations.
    ``(f) Quarterly Monitoring Reports.--The Director of the Defense 
Security Cooperation Agency shall, on a quarterly basis, submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report setting forth, for the 
preceding calendar quarter, the following:
        ``(1) Information, by recipient country, of the delivery and 
    execution status of all defense articles, training, defense 
    services, supplies (including consumables), and small-scale 
    construction under programs under subsection (a).
        ``(2) Information on the timeliness of delivery of defense 
    articles, defense services, supplies (including consumables), and 
    small-scale construction when compared with delivery schedules for 
    such articles, services, supplies, and construction previously 
    provided to Congress.
        ``(3) Information, by recipient country, on the status of funds 
    allocated for programs under subsection (a), including amounts of 
    unobligated funds, unliquidated obligations, and disbursements.
    ``(g) Funding.--
        ``(1) Sole source of funds.--Amounts for programs carried out 
    pursuant to subsection (a) in a fiscal year, and for other purposes 
    in connection with such programs as authorized by this section, may 
    be derived only from amounts authorized to be appropriated for such 
    fiscal year for the Department of Defense for operation and 
    maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for the Defense Security 
    Cooperation Agency for such programs and purposes.
        ``(2) Availability of funds for programs across fiscal years.--
            ``(A) In general.--Amounts available in a fiscal year to 
        carry out the authority in subsection (a) may be used for 
        programs under that authority that begin in such fiscal year 
        and end not later than the end of the second fiscal year 
        thereafter.
            ``(B) Achievement of full operational capacity.--If, in 
        accordance with subparagraph (A), equipment or training is 
        delivered under a program under the authority in subsection (a) 
        in the fiscal year after the fiscal year in which the program 
        begins, amounts for defense articles, training, defense 
        services, supplies (including consumables), and small-scale 
        construction associated with such equipment or training and 
        necessary to ensure that the recipient unit achieves full 
        operational capability for such equipment or training may be 
        used in the fiscal year in which the foreign country takes 
        receipt of such equipment and in the next two fiscal years.''.
        (2) Funding for fiscal year 2017.--Amounts may be available for 
    fiscal year 2017 for programs and other purposes described in 
    subsection (g) of section 333 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    added by paragraph (1), as follows:
            (A) Amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 301 
        for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for 
        the Defense Security Cooperation Agency for such programs and 
        purposes as specified in the funding table in section 4301.
            (B) Amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 1407 
        for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-
        Wide, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
            (C) Amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 1504 
        for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, for overseas 
        contingency operations and available for the Defense Security 
        Cooperation Agency for such programs and purposes as specified 
        in the funding table in section 4302.
            (D) Amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 1504 
        for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, for overseas 
        contingency operations and available for the Counter Islamic 
        State of Iraq and the Levant Fund as specified in the funding 
        table in section 4302, which amounts may be available for such 
        programs and other purposes with respect to a country other 
        than Iraq or Syria if--
                (i) such programs and other purposes are for the 
            purpose of countering the Islamic State of Iraq and the 
            Levant; and
                (ii) notice on the use of such amounts for such 
            programs and other purposes is provided to Congress in 
            accordance with subsection (e) of section 333 of title 10, 
            United States Code, as so added.
            (E) Amounts authorized to be appropriated by section 1507 
        for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-
        Wide, for overseas contingency operations as specified in the 
        funding table in section 4502 or 4503.
            (F) Amounts available for fiscal years before fiscal year 
        2017 for the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund that remain 
        available for obligation in fiscal year 2017.
        (3) Limitation on availability of funds for fiscal year 2017.--
    Of the amounts available for fiscal year 2017 pursuant to paragraph 
    (2) for programs and other purposes described in subsection (g) of 
    section 333 of title 10, United States Code, as so added, not more 
    than 65 percent of such amounts may be used for such purposes until 
    the guidance required by paragraph (4) is submitted to the 
    congressional defense committees as required by paragraph (4).
        (4) Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe, 
    and submit to the congressional defense committees, initial policy 
    guidance on roles, responsibilities, and processes in connection 
    with programs and activities authorized by section 333 of title 10, 
    United States Code, as so added. Not later than 270 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe, 
    and submit to the congressional defense committees, final policy 
    guidance on roles, responsibilities, and processes in connection 
    with such programs and activities.
        (5) Conforming repeals.--Effective as of the date that is 270 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the following 
    provisions of law are repealed:
            (A) Section 2282 of title 10, United States Code.
            (B) The following provisions of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66):
                (i) Section 1204 (127 Stat. 896; 10 U.S.C. 401 note).
                (ii) Section 1207 (127 Stat. 902; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note).
            (C) Section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 Stat. 1881).
        (6) Clerical amendment.--Effective as of the date that is 270 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the table of 
    sections at the beginning of chapter 136 of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 2282.
    (e) Transfer and Modification of Section 184 and Codification of 
Related Provisions.--
        (1) Transfer and redesignation.--Section 184 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title as 
    added by subsection (a)(3), inserted after the table of sections at 
    the beginning of subchapter V of such chapter, and redesignated as 
    section 342.
        (2) Modification of authorities and codification of 
    reimbursement-related provisions.--Section 342 of title 10, United 
    States Code, as so transferred and redesignated, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``and exchange of 
        ideas'' and inserting ``exchange of ideas, and training'';
            (B) in subsection (b)--
                (i) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``and exchange of 
            ideas'' and inserting ``exchange of ideas, and training''; 
            and
                (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``, except as 
            specifically provided by law after October 17, 2006'';
            (C) in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following 
        new sentence: ``The regulations shall prioritize within the 
        respective areas of focus of each Regional Center the 
        functional areas for engagement of territorial and maritime 
        security, transnational and asymmetric threats, and defense 
        sector governance.''; and
            (D) in subsection (f)--
                (i) in paragraph (3)--

                    (I) by inserting ``(A)'' after ``(3)'';
                    (II) in subparagraph (A), as so designated, by 
                striking ``civilian government officials'' and 
                inserting ``personnel''; and
                    (III) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:

    ``(B)(i) The Secretary of Defense may, with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State, waive reimbursement otherwise required under this 
subsection of the costs of activities of the Regional Centers for 
personnel of nongovernmental and international organizations who 
participate in activities of the Regional Centers that enhance 
cooperation of nongovernmental organizations and international 
organizations with United States forces if the Secretary of Defense 
determines that attendance of such personnel without reimbursement is 
in the national security interest of the United States.
    ``(ii) The amount of reimbursement that may be waived under clause 
(i) in any fiscal year may not exceed $1,000,000.''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (5), by striking ``under the Latin 
            American cooperation authority'' and all that follows and 
            inserting ``under section 312 of this title are also 
            available for the costs of the operation of the Regional 
            Centers.''.
        (3) Codification of provisions relating to specific centers.--
    Such section 342, as so transferred and redesignated, is further 
    amended by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(h) Authorities Specific to Marshall Center.--(1) The Secretary 
of Defense may authorize participation by a European or Eurasian 
country in programs of the George C. Marshall Center for Security 
Studies (in this subsection referred to as the `Marshall Center') if 
the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Secretary of 
State, that such participation is in the national interest of the 
United States.
    ``(2)(A) In the case of any person invited to serve without 
compensation on the Marshall Center Board of Visitors, the Secretary of 
Defense may waive any requirement for financial disclosure that would 
otherwise apply to that person solely by reason of service on such 
Board.
    ``(B) A member of the Marshall Center Board of Visitors may not be 
required to register as an agent of a foreign government solely by 
reason of service as a member of the Board.
    ``(C) Notwithstanding section 219 of title 18, a non-United States 
citizen may serve on the Marshall Center Board of Visitors even though 
registered as a foreign agent.
    ``(3)(A) The Secretary of Defense may waive reimbursement of the 
costs of conferences, seminars, courses of instruction, or similar 
educational activities of the Marshall Center for military officers and 
civilian officials from states located in Europe or the territory of 
the former Soviet Union if the Secretary determines that attendance by 
such personnel without reimbursement is in the national security 
interest of the United States.
    ``(B) Costs for which reimbursement is waived pursuant to 
subparagraph (A) shall be paid from appropriations available for the 
Center.
    ``(i) Authorities Specific to Inouye Center.--(1) The Secretary of 
Defense may waive reimbursement of the cost of conferences, seminars, 
courses of instruction, or similar educational activities of the Daniel 
K. Inouye Center for Security Studies for military officers and 
civilian officials of foreign countries if the Secretary determines 
that attendance by such personnel, without reimbursement, is in the 
national security interest of the United States.
    ``(2) Costs for which reimbursement is waived pursuant to paragraph 
(1) shall be paid from appropriations available for the Center.''.
        (4) Annual review of program structure and programs of 
    centers.--Such section 342, as amended by this subsection, is 
    further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(j) Annual Review of Program Structure and Programs of Centers.--
(1) The Secretary shall on an annual basis review the program and 
structure of each Regional Center in order to determine whether such 
Regional Center is appropriately aligned with the strategic priorities 
of the Department of Defense and the applicable geographic combatant 
commands.
    ``(2) The Secretary may revise the program, structure, or both of a 
Regional Center following an annual review under paragraph (1) in order 
to more appropriately align the Regional Center with strategic 
priorities and the geographic combatant commands as described in that 
paragraph..''.
        (5) Repeal of codified provisions.--The following provisions of 
    law are repealed:
            (A) Section 941(b) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 
        U.S.C. 184 note).
            (B) Section 1065 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201; 10 U.S.C. 113 note).
            (C) Section 1306 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 1995 (Public Law 103-337; 108 Stat. 2892).
            (D) Section 8073 of the Department of Defense 
        Appropriations Act, 2003 (Public Law 107-248; 10 U.S.C. prec. 
        2161 note).
    (f) Transfer of Section 2166.--
        (1) Transfer and redesignation.--Section 2166 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as 
    added by subsection (a)(3), inserted after section 342, as 
    transferred and redesignated by subsection (e), and redesignated as 
    section 343.
        (2) Conforming stylistic amendments.--Such section 343, as so 
    transferred and redesignated, is amended by striking ``nations'' 
    each place it appears in subsections (b) and (c) and inserting 
    ``countries''.
    (g) Transfer of Section 2350m.--
        (1) Transfer and redesignation.--Section 2350m of title 10, 
    United States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as 
    added by subsection (a)(3), inserted after section 343, as 
    transferred and redesignated by subsection (f), and redesignated as 
    section 344.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--Such section 344, as so transferred 
    and redesignated, is amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (e); and
            (B) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
    (h) Transfer of Section 2249d.--
        (1) Transfer and redesignation.--Section 2249d of title 10, 
    United States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as 
    added by subsection (a)(3), inserted after section 344, as 
    transferred and redesignated by subsection (g), and redesignated as 
    section 346.
        (2) Conforming and stylistic amendments.--Such section 346, as 
    so transferred and redesignated, is amended--
            (A) by striking ``nations'' in subsections (a) and (d) and 
        inserting ``countries''; and
            (B) by striking subsections (f) and (g).
    (i) Reenactment of Chapter 905.--
        (1) Consolidation of sections 9381, 9382, and 9383.--Chapter 16 
    of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(3), is 
    amended by inserting after section 346, as transferred and 
    redesignated by subsection (h), the following new section:
``Sec. 348. Aviation Leadership Program
    ``(a) In General.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of 
Defense, the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out an Aviation 
Leadership Program to provide undergraduate pilot training and 
necessary related training to personnel of the air forces of friendly, 
developing foreign countries. Training under this section shall include 
language training and programs to promote better awareness and 
understanding of the democratic institutions and social framework of 
the United States.
    ``(b) Supplies and Clothing.--(1) The Secretary of the Air Force 
may, under such conditions as the Secretary may prescribe, provide to a 
person receiving training under this section--
        ``(A) transportation incident to the training;
        ``(B) supplies and equipment to be used during the training;
        ``(C) flight clothing and other special clothing required for 
    the training; and
        ``(D) billeting, food, and health services.
    ``(2) The Secretary may authorize such expenditures from the 
appropriations of the Air Force as the Secretary considers necessary 
for the efficient and effective maintenance of the Program in 
accordance with this section.
    ``(c) Allowances.--The Secretary of the Air Force may pay to a 
person receiving training under this section a living allowance at a 
rate to be prescribed by the Secretary, taking into account the amount 
of living allowances authorized for a member of the armed forces under 
similar circumstances.''.
        (2) Conforming repeal.--Chapter 905 of such title is repealed.
    (j) Transfer of Section 9415.--
        (1) In general.--Section 9415 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as added by subsection 
    (a)(3), inserted after section 348, as added by subsection (i), and 
    redesignated as section 349.
        (2) Conforming amendment for standardization with certain other 
    air forces academy authority.--Such section 349, as so transferred 
    and amended, is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
            (B) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
        subsection (b):
    ``(b) Limitations.--
        ``(1) Concurrence of secretary of state.--Military personnel of 
    a foreign country may be provided education and training under this 
    section only with the concurrence of the Secretary of State.
        ``(2) Assistance otherwise prohibited by law.--Education and 
    training may not be provided under this section to the military 
    personnel of any country that is otherwise prohibited from 
    receiving such type of assistance under any other provision of 
    law.''.
    (k) Codification of Section 1268 of FY 2015 NDAA.--
        (1) Codification.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, 
    as added by subsection (a)(3), is amended by inserting after 
    section 349, as transferred and redesignated by subsection (j), a 
    new section 350 consisting of--
            (A) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 350. Inter-European Air Forces Academy''; and
            (B) a text consisting of the text of subsections (a) 
        through (f) of section 1268 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
        ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3585; 10 U.S.C. 9411 
        note).
        (2) Conforming repeal.--Section 1268 of the Carl Levin and 
    Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2015 is repealed.
    (l) Transfer of Sections 2249a and 2249e.--
        (1) Transfer and redesignation.--Sections 2249a and 2249e of 
    title 10, United States Code, are transferred to chapter 16 of such 
    title, as added by subsection (a)(3), inserted after the table of 
    sections at the beginning of subchapter VI of such chapter, and 
    redesignated as sections 361 and 362, respectively.
        (2) Conforming repeal relating to superseded definition of 
    congressional committees.--Section 362 of such title, as 
    transferred and redesignated by paragraph (1), is amended by 
    striking subsection (f).
    (m) Administrative Matters.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States 
Code, as added by subsection (a)(3), is amended by inserting after the 
table of sections at the beginning of subchapter VII the following new 
sections:
``Sec. 382. Execution and administration of programs and activities
    ``(a) Policy Oversight and Resource Allocation.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall assign responsibility for the oversight of strategic 
policy and guidance and responsibility for overall resource allocation 
for security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of 
Defense to a single official and office in the Office of the Secretary 
of Defense at the level of Under Secretary of Defense or below.
    ``(b) Execution and Administration of Certain Programs and 
Activities.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Director of the Defense Security 
    Cooperation Agency shall be responsible for the execution and 
    administration of all security cooperation programs and activities 
    of the Department of Defense involving the provision of defense 
    articles, military training, and other defense-related services by 
    grant, loan, cash sale, or lease.
        ``(2) Designation of responsibility.--The Director may 
    designate an element of an armed force, combatant command, Defense 
    Agency, Department of Defense Field Activity, or other element or 
    organization of the Department of Defense to execute and administer 
    security cooperation programs and activities described in paragraph 
    (1) if the Director determines that the designation will achieve 
    maximum effectiveness, efficiency, and economy in the activities 
    for which designated.
    ``(c) Availability of Funds.--
        ``(1) In general.--Funds available to the Defense Security 
    Cooperation Agency, and other funds available to the Department of 
    Defense for security cooperation programs and activities of the 
    Department of Defense, may be used to implement security 
    cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense 
    authorized by this chapter.
        ``(2) Budget justification.--Funds necessary for implementing 
    security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of 
    Defense under this chapter for a fiscal year shall be identified, 
    with appropriate justification, in the consolidated budget for such 
    fiscal year required by section 381 of this title.
``Sec. 383. Assessment, monitoring, and evaluation of programs and 
   activities
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall maintain a 
program of assessment, monitoring, and evaluation in support of the 
security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of 
Defense.
    ``(b) Program Elements and Requirements.--
        ``(1) Elements.--The program under subsection (a) shall provide 
    for the following:
            ``(A) Initial assessments of partner capability 
        requirements, potential programmatic risks, baseline 
        information, and indicators of efficacy for purposes of 
        planning, monitoring, and evaluation of security cooperation 
        programs and activities of the Department of Defense.
            ``(B) Monitoring of implementation of such programs and 
        activities in order to measure progress in execution and, to 
        the extent possible, achievement of desired outcomes.
            ``(C) Evaluation of the efficiency and effectiveness of 
        such programs and activities in achieving desired outcomes.
            ``(D) Identification of lessons learned in carrying out 
        such programs and activities, and development of recommendation 
        for improving future security cooperation programs and 
        activities of the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Best practices.--The program shall be conducted in 
    accordance with international best practices, interagency 
    standards, and, if applicable, the Government Performance and 
    Results Act of 1993 (Public Law 103-62), and the amendments made by 
    that Act, and the GPRA Modernization Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-
    352), and the amendments made by that Act.
    ``(c) Availability of Funds.--
        ``(1) In general.--Funds available to the Defense Security 
    Cooperation Agency, and other funds available to the Department of 
    Defense for security cooperation programs and activities of the 
    Department of Defense, may be used to carry out the program 
    required by subsection (a).
        ``(2) Budget justification.--Funds described in paragraph (1) 
    for a fiscal year shall be identified, with appropriate 
    justification, in the consolidated budget for such fiscal year 
    required by section 381 of this title.
    ``(d) Reports.--
        ``(1) Reports to congress.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees each year a report on the program 
    under subsection (a) during the previous year. Each report shall 
    include, for the year covered by such report, the following:
            ``(A) A description of the activities under the program.
            ``(B) An evaluation of the lessons learned and best 
        practices identified through activities under the program.
        ``(2) Information for the public on evaluations.--The Secretary 
    shall make available to the public, on an Internet website of the 
    Department of Defense available to the public, a summary of each 
    evaluation conducted pursuant to subsection (b)(1)(C). In making a 
    summary so available, the Secretary may redact or omit any 
    information that the Secretary determines should not be disclosed 
    to the public in order to protect the interest of the United States 
    or the foreign country or countries covered by such evaluation.
``Sec. 385. Department of Defense support for other departments and 
   agencies of the United States Government that advance Department of 
   Defense security cooperation objectives
    ``(a) Support Authorized.--Subject to subsection (c), the Secretary 
of Defense is authorized to support other departments and agencies of 
the United States Government for the purpose of implementing or 
supporting foreign assistance programs and activities described in 
subsection (b) that advance security cooperation objectives of the 
Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Foreign Assistance Programs and Activities.--The foreign 
assistance programs and activities described in this subsection are 
foreign assistance programs and activities that--
        ``(1) are necessary for the effectiveness of one or more 
    programs of the Department of Defense relating to security 
    cooperation conducted pursuant to an authority in this chapter; and
        ``(2) cannot be carried out by the Department.
    ``(c) Annual Limitation on Amount of Support.--The amount of 
support provided pursuant to subsection (a) in any fiscal year may not 
exceed $75,000,000.
    ``(d) Notice and Wait.--If a determination is made to transfer 
funds in connection with the provision of support pursuant to 
subsection (a) for a program or activity, the transfer may not occur 
until--
        ``(1) the Secretary and the head of the department or agency to 
    receive the funds jointly submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a notice on the transfer, which notice shall include--
            ``(A) a detailed description of the purpose and estimated 
        cost of such program or activity;
            ``(B) a detailed description of the security cooperation 
        objectives of the Department, include the theater campaign plan 
        of the combatant command concerned, that will be advanced;
            ``(C) a justification why such program or activity will 
        advance such objectives;
            ``(D) a justification why such program or activity cannot 
        be carried out by the Department;
            ``(E) an identification of any funds programmed or 
        obligated by the department or agency other than the Department 
        on such program or activity; and
            ``(F) a timeline for the provision of such support; and
        ``(2) a period of 30 days elapses after the date of the 
    submittal of the notice pursuant to paragraph (1).''.
    (n)  Prescription of Term ``Developing Country''.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe the 
    meaning of the term ``developing country'' for purposes of chapter 
    16 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(3), 
    and may from time to time prescribe a revision to the meaning of 
    that term for those purposes.
        (2) Initial prescription.--The Secretary shall first prescribe 
    the meaning of the term by not later than 270 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act.
        (3) Notice to congress.--Whenever the Secretary prescribes the 
    meaning of the term pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
    notify the appropriate committees of Congress of the meaning of the 
    term as so prescribed.
        (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 301(1) of title 10, United 
    States Code, as so added.
    (o) Clerical Amendments.--Title 10, United States Code, is amended 
as follows:
        (1) The tables of chapters at the beginning of subtitle A, and 
    at the beginning of part I of subtitle A, are amended--
            (A) by revising the chapter references relating to chapters 
        13, 15, 17, and 18 (and the section references therein) to 
        conform to the redesignations made by paragraphs (1) and (2) of 
        subsection (a); and
            (B) by inserting after the item relating to chapter 15, as 
        revised pursuant to subparagraph (A), the following new item:

``16. Security Cooperation........................................301''.

        (2) The section references in the tables of sections at the 
    beginning of chapters 12, 13, 14, and 15, as redesignated by 
    paragraph (1) of subsection (a), are revised to conform to the 
    redesignations made by paragraph (2) of such subsection.
        (3) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 7 is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 184.
        (4) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 53 is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 1051b.
        (5) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 108 is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 2166.
        (6) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of 
    chapter 134 is amended by striking the items relating to sections 
    2249a, 2249d, and 2249e.
        (7) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II of 
    chapter 138 is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    2350m.
        (8) The tables of chapters at the beginning of subtitle D, and 
    at the beginning of part III of subtitle D, are amended by striking 
    the item relating to chapter 905.
        (9) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 907 is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 9415.
SEC. 1242. MILITARY-TO-MILITARY EXCHANGES.
    (a) Codification in New Chapter on Security Cooperation 
Activities.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by inserting after the table 
of sections at the beginning of subchapter II a new section 311 
consisting of--
        (1) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 311. Exchange of defense personnel between United States and 
   friendly foreign countries: authority''; and
        (2) a text consisting of the text of section 1082 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 
    104-201; 110 Stat. 2672; 10 U.S.C. 168 note).
    (b) Revisions To Incorporate Permanent Nonreciprocal Exchange 
Authority.--Section 311 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
subsection (a), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following 
        new sentence: ``Any exchange of personnel under such an 
        agreement is subject to paragraph (3).'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
            striking ``an ally of the United States or another friendly 
            foreign country for the exchange'' and inserting ``a 
            friendly foreign country or international or regional 
            security organization for the reciprocal or non-reciprocal 
            exchange'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``military'' and 
            inserting ``members of the armed forces''; and
                (iii) in subparagraph (B)--

                    (I) by inserting ``or security'' after ``defense''; 
                and
                    (II) by inserting before the period at the end the 
                following: ``or international or regional security 
                organization''; and

            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) An exchange of personnel under an international defense 
personnel exchange agreement under this section may only be made with 
the concurrence of the Secretary to State to the extent the exchange is 
with either of the following:
        ``(A) A non-defense security ministry of a foreign government.
        ``(B) An international or regional security organization.'';
        (2) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting before the period at the 
    end the following: ``, subject to the concurrence of the Secretary 
    of State'';
        (3) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``Each government shall be required under'' 
        and inserting ``In the case of''; and
            (B) by inserting after ``exchange agreement'' the 
        following: ``that provides for reciprocal exchanges, each 
        government shall be required''; and
        (4) in subsection (f), by inserting ``defense or security 
    ministry of that'' after ``military personnel of the''.
    (c) Conforming Repeals.--The following provisions of law are 
repealed:
        (1) Section 1082 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201; 110 Stat. 2672; 10 U.S.C. 168 
    note).
        (2) Section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (10 U.S.C. 168 note).
SEC. 1243. CONSOLIDATION AND REVISION OF AUTHORITIES FOR PAYMENT OF 
PERSONNEL EXPENSES NECESSARY FOR THEATER SECURITY COOPERATION.
    (a) Consolidation and Revision of Authorities in New Chapter on 
Security Cooperation Activities.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States 
Code, as added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by 
inserting after section 311, as added by section 1242(a) of this Act, 
the following new section:
``Sec. 312. Payment of personnel expenses necessary for theater 
   security cooperation
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may pay expenses 
specified in subsection (b) that the Secretary considers necessary for 
theater security cooperation.
    ``(b) Types of Expenses.--The expenses that may be paid under the 
authority provided in subsection (a) are the following:
        ``(1) Personnel expenses.--The Secretary of Defense may pay 
    travel, subsistence, and similar personnel expenses of, and special 
    compensation for, the following that the Secretary considers 
    necessary for theater security cooperation:
            ``(A) Defense personnel of friendly foreign governments.
            ``(B) With the concurrence of the Secretary of State, other 
        personnel of friendly foreign governments and non-governmental 
        personnel.
        ``(2) Administrative services and support for liaison 
    officers.--The Secretary of Defense may provide administrative 
    services and support for the performance of duties by a liaison 
    officer of a foreign country while the liaison officer is assigned 
    temporarily to any headquarters in the Department of Defense.
        ``(3) Travel, subsistence, and medical care for liaison 
    officers.--The Secretary of Defense may pay the expenses of a 
    liaison officer in connection with the assignment of that officer 
    as described in paragraph (2) if the assignment is requested by the 
    commander of a combatant command, the Chief of Staff of the Army, 
    the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, 
    the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the head of a Defense Agency 
    as follows:
            ``(A) Travel and subsistence expenses.
            ``(B) Personal expenses directly necessary to carry out the 
        duties of that officer in connection with that assignment.
            ``(C) Expenses for medical care at a civilian medical 
        facility if--
                ``(i) adequate medical care is not available to the 
            liaison officer at a local military medical treatment 
            facility;
                ``(ii) the Secretary determines that payment of such 
            medical expenses is necessary and in the best interests of 
            the United States; and
                ``(iii) medical care is not otherwise available to the 
            liaison officer pursuant to any treaty or other 
            international agreement.
            ``(D) Mission-related travel expenses if such travel meets 
        each of the following conditions:
                ``(i) The travel is in support of the national security 
            interests of the United States.
                ``(ii) The officer or official making the request 
            directs round-trip travel from the assigned location to one 
            or more travel locations.
        ``(4) Conferences, seminars, and similar meetings.--The 
    authority provided by paragraph (1) includes authority to pay 
    travel and subsistence expenses for personnel described in that 
    paragraph in connection with the attendance of such personnel at 
    any conference, seminar, or similar meeting that is in direct 
    support of enhancing interoperability between the United States 
    armed forces and the national security forces of a friendly foreign 
    country for the purposes of conducting operations, the provision of 
    equipment or training, or the planning for, or the execution of, 
    bilateral or multilateral training, exercises, or military 
    operations.
        ``(5) Other expenses.--In addition to the personnel expenses 
    payable under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense may pay such 
    other limited expenses in connection with conferences, seminars, 
    and similar meetings covered by paragraph (4) as the Secretary 
    considers appropriate in the national security interests of the 
    United States.
    ``(c) Limitations on Expenses Payable.--
        ``(1) Personnel from developing countries.--The authority 
    provided in subsection (a) may be used only for the payment of 
    expenses of, and special compensation for, personnel from 
    developing countries, except that the Secretary of Defense may 
    authorize the payment of such expenses and special compensation for 
    personnel from a country other than a developing country if the 
    Secretary determines that such payment is necessary to respond to 
    extraordinary circumstances and is in the national security 
    interest of the United States.
        ``(2) Non-defense liaison officers.--In the case of a non-
    defense liaison officer of a foreign country, the authority of the 
    Secretary of Defense under subsection (a) to pay expenses specified 
    in paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (b) may be exercised only if 
    the assignment of that liaison officer as a liaison officer with 
    the Department of Defense was accepted by the Secretary of Defense 
    with the coordination of the Secretary of State.
    ``(d) Reimbursement.--The Secretary of Defense may provide the 
services and support specified in subsection (b)(2) with or without 
reimbursement from (or on behalf of) the recipients. The terms of 
reimbursement (if any) shall be specified in the appropriate agreements 
used to assign the liaison officer.
    ``(e) Monetary Limitations on Expenses Payable.--
        ``(1) Travel and subsistence expenses generally.--Travel and 
    subsistence expenses authorized to be paid under subsection (a) may 
    not, in the case of any individual, exceed the amount that would be 
    paid under chapter 7 or 8 of title 37 to a member of the armed 
    forces (of a comparable grade) for authorized travel of a similar 
    nature.
        ``(2) Travel and related expenses of liaison officers.--The 
    amount paid for expenses specified in subsection (b)(3) for any 
    liaison officer in any fiscal year may not exceed $150,000.
    ``(f) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
regulations for the administration of this section. Such regulations 
shall be submitted to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives.
    ``(g) Administrative Services and Support Defined.--In this 
section, the term `administrative services and support' includes base 
or installation support services, office space, utilities, copying 
services, fire and police protection, training programs conducted to 
familiarize, orient, or certify liaison personnel regarding unique 
aspects of the assignments of the liaison personnel, and computer 
support.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Repeals.--Sections 1050, 1050a, 1051, and 1051a of title 
    10, United States Code, are repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of chapter 53 of such title is amended by striking the 
    items relating to sections 1050, 1050a, 1051, and 1051a.
    (c) Savings Provision for Fiscal Year 2017.--The authority under 
section 1050 of title 10, United States Code, as in effect on the day 
before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall continue to apply 
with respect to the Inter-American Defense College during fiscal year 
2017 under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.
SEC. 1244. TRANSFER AND REVISION OF CERTAIN AUTHORITIES ON PAYMENT OF 
EXPENSES OF TRAINING AND EXERCISES WITH FRIENDLY FOREIGN FORCES.
    (a) Transfer and Revision of Authority on Payment of Expenses of 
Developing Countries.--Section 2010 of title 10, United States Code, is 
transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as added by section 1241(a)(3) 
of this Act, inserted after the table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter III, redesignated as section 321, and amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 321. Training with friendly foreign countries: payment of 
   training and exercise expenses
    ``(a) Training Authorized.--
        ``(1) Training with foreign forces generally.--The armed forces 
    under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense may train with 
    the military forces or other security forces of a friendly foreign 
    country if the Secretary determines that it is in the national 
    security interest of the United States to do so.
        ``(2) Limitation on training of general purpose forces.--The 
    general purpose forces of the United States armed forces may train 
    only with the military forces of a friendly foreign country.
        ``(3) Training to support mission essential tasks.--Any 
    training conducted pursuant to paragraph (1) shall, to the maximum 
    extent practicable, support the mission essential tasks for which 
    the unit of the United States armed forces participating in such 
    training is responsible.
        ``(4) Elements of training.--Any training conducted pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) shall, to the maximum extent practicable, include 
    elements that promote--
            ``(A) observance of and respect for human rights and 
        fundamental freedoms; and
            ``(B) respect for legitimate civilian authority within the 
        foreign country concerned.
    ``(b) Authority To Pay Training and Exercise Expenses.--Under 
regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (e), the Secretary of a 
military department or the commander of a combatant command may pay, or 
authorize payment for, any of the following expenses:
        ``(1) Expenses of training forces assigned or allocated to that 
    command in conjunction with training, and training with, the 
    military forces or other security forces of a friendly foreign 
    country under subsection (a).
        ``(2) Expenses of deploying such forces for that training.
        ``(3) The incremental expenses of a friendly foreign country as 
    the direct result of participating in such training, as specified 
    in the regulations.
        ``(4) The incremental expenses of a friendly foreign country as 
    the direct result of participating in an exercise with the armed 
    forces under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense.
        ``(5) Small-scale construction that is directly related to the 
    effective accomplishment of the training described in paragraph (1) 
    or an exercise described in paragraph (4).
    ``(c) Purpose of Training and Exercises.--
        ``(1) In general.--The primary purpose of the training and 
    exercises for which payment may be made under subsection (b) shall 
    be to train United States forces.
        ``(2) Selection of foreign partners.--Training and exercises 
    with friendly foreign countries under subsection (a) should be 
    planned and prioritized consistent with applicable guidance 
    relating to the security cooperation programs and activities of the 
    Department of Defense.
    ``(d) Availability of Funds for Activities That Cross Fiscal 
Years.--Amounts available for the authority to pay expenses in 
subsection (b) for a fiscal year may be used to pay expenses under that 
subsection for training and exercises that begin in such fiscal year 
but end in the next fiscal year.
    ``(e) Quarterly Notice on Planned Training.--Not later than the end 
of the first calender quarter beginning after the date of the enactment 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017, and 
every calender quarter thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a notice setting forth 
the schedule of planned training engagement pursuant to subsection (a) 
during the calendar quarter first following the calendar quarter in 
which such notice is submitted.
    ``(f) Regulations.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe 
    regulations for the administration of this section. The Secretary 
    shall submit the regulations to the Committees on Armed Services of 
    the Senate and the House of Representatives.
        ``(2) Elements.--The regulations required under this section 
    shall provide the following:
            ``(A) A requirement that training and exercise activities 
        may be carried out under this section only with the prior 
        approval of the Secretary.
            ``(B) Accounting procedures to ensure that the expenditures 
        pursuant to this section are appropriate.
            ``(C) Procedures to limit the payment of incremental 
        expenses to friendly foreign countries only to developing 
        countries, except in the case of exceptional circumstances as 
        specified in the regulations.''.
    (b) Transfer of Authority for Payment of Expenses in Connection 
With Special Operations Forces Training.--Section 2011 of title 10, 
United States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, 
inserted after section 321, as transferred and amended by subsection 
(a) of this section, and redesignated as section 322.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1203 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
894; 10 U.S.C. 2011 note) is repealed.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 101 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
items relating to sections 2010 and 2011.
SEC. 1245. TRANSFER AND REVISION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE OPERATIONAL 
SUPPORT TO FORCES OF FRIENDLY FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
    (a) Transfer and Revision.--Section 127d of title 10, United States 
Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as added by section 
1241(a)(3) of this Act, inserted after the table of sections at the 
beginning of subchapter IV, redesignated as section 331, and amended to 
read as follows:
``Sec. 331. Friendly foreign countries: authority to provide support 
   for conduct of operations
    ``(a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may provide support to 
friendly foreign countries in connection with the conduct of operations 
designated pursuant to subsection (b).
    ``(b) Designated Operations.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate the 
    operations for which support may be provided under the authority in 
    subsection (a).
        ``(2) Notice to congress.--The Secretary shall notify the 
    appropriate committees of Congress of the designation of any 
    operation pursuant to this subsection.
        ``(3) Annual review for continuing designation.--The Secretary 
    shall undertake on an annual basis a review of the operations 
    currently designated pursuant to this subsection in order to 
    determine whether each such operation merits continuing designation 
    for purposes of this section for another year. If the Secretary 
    determines that any operation so reviewed merits continuing 
    designation for purposes of this section for another year, the 
    Secretary--
            ``(A) may continue the designation of such operation under 
        this subsection for such purposes for another year; and
            ``(B) if the Secretary so continues the designation of such 
        operation, shall notify the appropriate committees of Congress 
        of the continuation of designation of such operation.
    ``(c) Types of Support Authorized.--The types of support that may 
be provided under the authority in subsection (a) are the following:
        ``(1) Logistic support, supplies, and services to security 
    forces of a friendly foreign country participating in--
            ``(A) an operation with the armed forces under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense; or
            ``(B) a military or stability operation that benefits the 
        national security interests of the United States.
        ``(2) Logistic support, supplies, and services--
            ``(A) to military forces of a friendly foreign country 
        solely for the purpose of enhancing the interoperability of the 
        logistical support systems of military forces participating in 
        a combined operation with the United States in order to 
        facilitate such operation; or
            ``(B) to a nonmilitary logistics, security, or similar 
        agency of a friendly foreign government if such provision would 
        directly benefit the armed forces under the jurisdiction of the 
        Secretary of Defense.
        ``(3) Procurement of equipment for the purpose of the loan of 
    such equipment to the military forces of a friendly foreign country 
    participating in a United States-supported coalition or combined 
    operation and the loan of such equipment to those forces to enhance 
    capabilities or to increase interoperability with the armed forces 
    under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of Defense and other 
    coalition partners.
        ``(4) Provision of specialized training to personnel of 
    friendly foreign countries in connection with such an operation, 
    including training of such personnel before deployment in 
    connection with such operation.
        ``(5) Small-scale construction to support military forces of a 
    friendly foreign country participating in a United States-supported 
    coalition or combined operation when the construction is directly 
    linked to the ability of such forces to participate in such 
    operation effectively and is limited to the geographic area where 
    such operation is taking place.
    ``(d) Certification Required.--
        ``(1) Operations in which the united states is not 
    participating.--The Secretary of Defense may provide support under 
    subsection (a) to a friendly foreign country with respect to an 
    operation in which the United States is not participating only--
            ``(A) if the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
        State jointly certify to the appropriate committees of Congress 
        that the operation is in the national security interests of the 
        United States; and
            ``(B) after the expiration of the 15-day period beginning 
        on the date of such certification.
        ``(2) Accompanying report.--Any certification under paragraph 
    (1) shall be accompanied by a report that includes the following:
            ``(A) A description of the operation, including the 
        geographic area of the operation.
            ``(B) A list of participating countries.
            ``(C) A description of the type of support and the duration 
        of support to be provided.
            ``(D) A description of the national security interests of 
        the United States supported by the operation.
            ``(E) Such other matters as the Secretary of Defense and 
        the Secretary of State consider significant to a consideration 
        of such certification.
    ``(e) Secretary of State Concurrence.--The provision of support 
under subsection (a) may be made only with the concurrence of the 
Secretary of State.
    ``(f) Support Otherwise Prohibited by Law.--The Secretary of 
Defense may not use the authority in subsection (a) to provide any type 
of support described in subsection (c) that is otherwise prohibited by 
any provision of law.
    ``(g) Limitations on Value.--
        ``(1) The aggregate value of all logistic support, supplies, 
    and services provided under paragraphs (1), (4), and (5) of 
    subsection (c) in any fiscal year may not exceed $450,000,000.
        ``(2) The aggregate value of all logistic support, supplies, 
    and services provided under subsection (c)(2) in any fiscal year 
    may not exceed $5,000,000.
    ``(h) Logistic Support, Supplies, and Services Defined.--In this 
section, the term `logistic support, supplies, and services' has the 
meaning given that term in section 2350(1) of this title.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 3 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 127d.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1207 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
1040; 10 U.S.C. 2282 note) is repealed.
SEC. 1246. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STATE PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.
    (a) Codification in New Chapter on Security Cooperation 
Activities.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by inserting after the table 
of sections at the beginning of subchapter V a new section 341 
consisting of--
        (1) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 341. Department of Defense State Partnership Program''; and
        (2) a text consisting of subsections (a) through (g) of section 
    1205 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
    (32 U.S.C. 107 note).
    (b) Prohibition on Activities With Units Having Committed Gross 
Violations of Human Rights.--Subsection (b) of section 341 of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking `` (b) Limitation.--An activity'' and inserting 
    the following:
    ``(b) Limitations.--
        ``(1) In general.--An activity''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Prohibition on activities with units that have committed 
    gross violations of human rights.--The conduct of any activities 
    under a program established under subsection (a) shall be subject 
    to the provisions of section 362 of this title.''.
    (c) Revisions To Strike Obsolete Provisions and Conform to 
Provisions in New Chapter.--Such section 341, as so added, is further 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Regulations.--This section shall be carried out in accordance 
with such regulations as the Secretary of Defense shall prescribe for 
purposes of this section. Such regulations shall include accounting 
procedures to ensure that expenditures of funds to carry out this 
section are accounted for and appropriate.''; and
        (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``under title 10'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``under title 10 as in effect on 
    December 26, 2013.''.
    (d) Annual Reports.--
        (1) Reports under codified authority.--Subsection (f) of such 
    section 341, as so added, is amended--
            (A) by striking ``(f) Reports and Notifications.--'' and 
        all that follows through ``(B) Matters to be included.--'' and 
        inserting the following:
    ``(f) Annual Reports.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than February 1 following each of 
    fiscal years 2016, 2017, and 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
    activities under each program established under subsection (a) 
    during such fiscal year.
        ``(2) Matters to be included.--''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by subparagraph (A) 
        of this paragraph--
                (i) by redesignating clauses (i) through (vi) as 
            subparagraphs (A) through (F), respectively, and realigning 
            the margin of each such subparagraph two ems to the left; 
            and
                (ii) in subparagraph (F), as redesignated by clause (i) 
            of this subparagraph, by striking ``clause (v)'' and 
            inserting ``subparagraph (E)''.
        (2) Reports under codified reporting authority in new chapter 
    on security cooperation activities.--Effective as of January 1, 
    2020--
            (A) section 386(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code, as 
        added by section 1251(d)(1) of this Act, is amended by 
        inserting ``341,'' after ``333,''; and
            (B) section 341 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
        and amended by this section, is further amended--
                (i) by striking subsection (f); and
                (ii) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
    (e) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1205 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 is repealed.
SEC. 1247. TRANSFER OF AUTHORITY ON REGIONAL DEFENSE COMBATING 
TERRORISM FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.
    (a) Transfer and Redesignation.--Section 2249c of title 10, United 
States Code, is transferred to chapter 16 of such title, as added by 
section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, inserted after section 344, as 
transferred and redesignated by section 1241(g) of this Act, and 
redesignated as section 345.
    (b) Conforming Amendment in Connection With Transfer to New 
Chapter.--Subsection (c) of such section 345, as so transferred and 
redesignated, is amended by striking ``to Congress'' and inserting ``to 
the appropriate committees of Congress''.
    (c) Heading Amendment.--The heading of such section 345, as so 
transferred and redesignated, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 345. Regional Defense Combating Terrorism Fellowship Program''.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter I of chapter 134 of such title is amended by striking the 
item relating to section 2249c.
SEC. 1248. CONSOLIDATION OF AUTHORITIES FOR SERVICE ACADEMY 
INTERNATIONAL ENGAGEMENT.
    (a) Consolidation of Authorities.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United 
States Code, as added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by 
inserting after section 346, as transferred and redesignated by section 
1241(h) of this Act, the following new section:
``Sec. 347. International engagement authorities for service academies
    ``(a) Selection of Persons From Foreign Countries To Receive 
Instruction at Service Academies.--
        ``(1) Attendance authorized.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of each military 
        department may permit persons from foreign countries to receive 
        instruction at the Service Academy under the jurisdiction of 
        the Secretary. Such persons shall be in addition to--
                ``(i) in the case of the United States Military 
            Academy, the authorized strength of the Corps of the Cadets 
            of the Academy under 4342 of this title;
                ``(ii) in the case of the United States Naval Academy, 
            the authorized strength of the Brigade of Midshipmen of the 
            Academy under section 6954 of this title; and
                ``(iii) in the case of the United States Air Force 
            Academy, the authorized strength of the Cadet Wing of the 
            Academy under 9342 of this title.
            ``(B) Limitation on number.--The number of persons 
        permitted to receive instruction at each Service Academy under 
        this subsection may not be more than 60 at any one time.
        ``(2) Determination of foreign countries from which persons may 
    be selected.--The Secretary of a military department, upon approval 
    by the Secretary of Defense, shall determine--
            ``(A) the countries from which persons may be selected for 
        appointment under this subsection to the Service Academy under 
        the jurisdiction of that Secretary; and
            ``(B) the number of persons that may be selected from each 
        country.
        ``(3) Qualifications and selection.--The Secretary of each 
    military department--
            ``(A) may establish entrance qualifications and methods of 
        competition for selection among individual applicants under 
        this subsection; and
            ``(B) shall select those persons who will be permitted to 
        receive instruction at the Service Academy under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary under this subsection.
        ``(4) Selection priority to persons with national service 
    obligation upon graduation.--In selecting persons to receive 
    instruction under this subsection from among applicants from the 
    countries approved under paragraph (2), the Secretary of the 
    military department concerned shall give a priority to persons who 
    have a national service obligation to their countries upon 
    graduation from the Service Academy concerned.
        ``(5) Pay, allowances, and emoluments of persons admitted.--A 
    person receiving instruction under this subsection is entitled to 
    the pay, allowances, and emoluments of a cadet or midshipman 
    appointed from the United States, and from the same appropriations.
        ``(6) Reimbursement of costs by foreign countries from which 
    persons are admitted.--
            ``(A) Reimbursement required.--Each foreign country from 
        which a cadet or midshipman is permitted to receive instruction 
        at one of the Service Academies under this subsection shall 
        reimburse the United States for the cost of providing such 
        instruction, including the cost of pay, allowances, and 
        emoluments provided under paragraph (5). The Secretaries of the 
        military departments shall prescribe the rates for 
        reimbursement under this paragraph, except that the 
        reimbursement rates may not be less than the cost to the United 
        States of providing such instruction, including pay, 
        allowances, and emoluments, to a cadet or midshipman appointed 
        from the United States.
            ``(B) Waiver authority.--The Secretary of Defense may 
        waive, in whole or in part, the requirement for reimbursement 
        of the cost of instruction for a cadet or midshipman under 
        subparagraph (A). In the case of a partial waiver, the 
        Secretary of Defense shall establish the amount waived.
        ``(7) Applicability of academy regulations, etc..--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as the Secretary of the military 
        department concerned determines, a person receiving instruction 
        under this subsection at the Service Academy under the 
        jurisdiction of that Secretary is subject to the same 
        regulations governing admission, attendance, discipline, 
        resignation, discharge, dismissal, and graduation as a cadet or 
        midshipman at that Academy appointed from the United States.
            ``(B) Classified information.--The Secretary of the 
        military department concerned may prescribe regulations with 
        respect to access to classified information by a person 
        receiving instruction under this subsection at the Service 
        Academy under the jurisdiction of that Secretary that differ 
        from the regulations that apply to a cadet or midshipman at 
        that Academy appointed from the United States.
        ``(8) Ineligibility for appointment in the united states armed 
    forces.--A person receiving instruction at a Service Academy under 
    this subsection is not entitled to an appointment in an armed force 
    of the United States by reason of graduation from the Academy.
        ``(9) Inapplicability of requirement for taking oath of 
    admission.--A person receiving instruction under this subsection is 
    not subject to section 4346(d), 6958(d), or 9346(d) of this title, 
    as the case may be.
    ``(b) Exchange Programs With Foreign Military Academies.--
        ``(1) Exchange programs authorized.--The Secretary of a 
    military department may permit a student enrolled at a military 
    academy of a foreign country to receive instruction at the Service 
    Academy under the jurisdiction of that Secretary in exchange for a 
    cadet or midshipman receiving instruction at that foreign military 
    academy pursuant to an exchange agreement entered into between the 
    Secretary and appropriate officials of the foreign country. A 
    student receiving instruction at a Service Academy under the 
    exchange program under this subsection shall be in addition to 
    persons receiving instruction at the Academy under subsection (a).
        ``(2) Limitations on number and duration of exchanges.--An 
    exchange agreement under this subsection between the Secretary and 
    a foreign country shall provide for the exchange of students on a 
    one-for-one basis each fiscal year. Not more than 100 cadets or 
    midshipmen from each Service Academy and a comparable number of 
    students from foreign military academies participating in the 
    exchange program may be exchanged during any fiscal year. The 
    duration of an exchange may not exceed the equivalent of one 
    academic semester at a Service Academy.
        ``(3) Costs and expenses.--
            ``(A) No pay and allowances.--A student from a military 
        academy of a foreign country is not entitled to the pay, 
        allowances, and emoluments of a cadet or midshipman by reason 
        of attendance at a Service Academy under the exchange program, 
        and the Department of Defense may not incur any cost of 
        international travel required for transportation of such a 
        student to and from the sponsoring foreign country.
            ``(B) Subsistence, transportation, etc..--The Secretary of 
        the military department concerned may provide a student from a 
        foreign country under the exchange program, during the period 
        of the exchange, with subsistence, transportation within the 
        continental United States, clothing, health care, and other 
        services to the same extent that the foreign country provides 
        comparable support and services to the exchanged cadet or 
        midshipman in that foreign country.
            ``(C) Source of funds.--A Service Academy shall bear all 
        costs of the exchange program from funds appropriated for that 
        Academy and from such additional funds as may be available to 
        that Academy from a source, other than appropriated funds, to 
        support cultural immersion, regional awareness, or foreign 
        language training activities in connection with the exchange 
        program.
            ``(D) Limitation on expenditures.--Expenditures in support 
        of the exchange program from funds appropriated for each 
        Academy may not exceed $1,000,000 during any fiscal year.
        ``(4) Application of other laws.--Paragraphs (7), (8), and (9) 
    of subsection (a) shall apply with respect to a student enrolled at 
    a military academy of a foreign country while attending a Service 
    Academy under the exchange program.
        ``(5) Regulations.--The Secretary of the military department 
    concerned shall prescribe regulations to implement this subsection. 
    Such regulations may include qualification criteria and methods of 
    selection for students of foreign military academies to participate 
    in the exchange program.
    ``(c) Foreign and Cultural Exchange Activities.--
        ``(1) Attendance authorized.--The Secretary of a military 
    department may authorize the Service Academy under the jurisdiction 
    of that Secretary to permit students, officers, and other 
    representatives of a foreign country to attend that Academy for 
    periods of not more than four weeks if the Secretary determines 
    that the attendance of such persons contributes significantly to 
    the development of foreign language, cross-cultural interactions 
    and understanding, and cultural immersion of cadets or midshipmen, 
    as the case may be.
        ``(2) Effect of attendance.--Persons attending a Service 
    Academy under paragraph (1) are not considered to be students 
    enrolled at that Academy and are in addition to persons receiving 
    instruction at that Academy under subsection (a) or (b).
        ``(3) Financial matters.--
            ``(A) Costs and expenses.--The Secretary of a military 
        department may pay the travel, subsistence, and similar 
        personal expenses of persons incurred to attend the Service 
        Academy under the jurisdiction of that Secretary under 
        paragraph (1).
            ``(B) Source of funds.--Each Service Academy shall bear the 
        costs of the attendance of persons at that Academy under 
        paragraph (1) from funds appropriated for that Academy and from 
        such additional funds as may be available to that Academy from 
        a source, other than appropriated funds, to support cultural 
        immersion, regional awareness, or foreign language training 
        activities in connection with their attendance.
            ``(C) Limitation on expenditures.--Expenditures from 
        appropriated funds in support of activities under this 
        subsection for any Service Academy may not exceed $40,000 
        during any fiscal year.
    ``(d) Service Academy Defined.--In this section, the term `Service 
Academy' means the following:
        ``(1) The United States Military Academy.
        ``(2) The United States Naval Academy.
        ``(3) The United States Air Force Academy.''.
    (b) Conforming Repeals.--
        (1) Repeals.--Sections 4344, 4345, 4345a, 6957, 6957a, 6957b, 
    9344, 9345, and 9345a of title 10, United States Code, are 
    repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--
            (A) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 403 
        of such title is amended by striking the items relating to 
        sections 4344, 4345, and 4345a.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 603 
        of such title is amended by striking the items relating to 
        sections 6957, 6957a, and 6957b.
            (C) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 903 
        of such title is amended by striking the items relating to 
        sections 9344, 9345, and 9345a.
SEC. 1249. CONSOLIDATED ANNUAL BUDGET FOR SECURITY COOPERATION PROGRAMS 
AND ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by inserting after 
the table at the beginning of subchapter VII the following new section:
``Sec. 381. Consolidated budget
    ``(a) Consolidated Budget.--The budget of the President for each 
fiscal year, as submitted to Congress by the President pursuant to 
section 1105 of title 31, shall set forth by budget function and as a 
separate item the amounts requested for the Department of Defense for 
such fiscal year for all security cooperation programs and activities 
of the Department of Defense, including the military departments, to be 
conducted in such fiscal year, including the specific country or region 
and the applicable authority, to the extent practicable.
    ``(b) Quarterly Report on Use of Funds.--Not later than 30 days 
after the end of each calendar quarter, the Secretary shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the obligation and 
expenditure of funds for security cooperation programs and activities 
of the Department of Defense during such calendar quarter.''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply as 
follows:
        (1) Subsection (a) of section 381 of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply to budgets submitted 
    to Congress by the President pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
    United States Code, for each fiscal year after fiscal year 2018.
        (2) Subsection (b) of such section 381, as so added, shall 
    apply to calendar quarters beginning on or after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1250. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION WORKFORCE 
DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by inserting after 
section 383, as added by section 1241(m) of this Act, the following new 
section:
``Sec. 384. Department of Defense security cooperation workforce 
   development
    ``(a) Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall carry out a 
program to be known as the `Department of Defense Security Cooperation 
Workforce Development Program' (in this section referred to as the 
`Program') to oversee the development and management of a professional 
workforce supporting security cooperation programs and activities of 
the Department of Defense, including--
        ``(1) assessment, planning, monitoring, execution, evaluation, 
    and administration of such programs and activities under this 
    chapter; and
        ``(2) execution of security assistance programs and activities 
    under the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and the Arms Export 
    Control Act by the Department of Defense.
    ``(b) Purpose.--The purpose of the Program is to improve the 
quality and professionalism of the security cooperation workforce in 
order to ensure that the workforce--
        ``(1) has the capacity, in both personnel and skills, needed to 
    properly perform its mission, provide appropriate support to the 
    assessment, planning, monitoring, execution, evaluation, and 
    administration of security cooperation programs and activities 
    described in subsection (a), and ensure that the Department 
    receives the best value for the expenditure of public resources on 
    such programs and activities; and
        ``(2) is assigned in a manner that ensures personnel with the 
    appropriate level of expertise and experience are assigned in 
    sufficient numbers to fulfill requirements for the security 
    cooperation programs and activities of the Department of Defense 
    and the execution of security assistance programs and activities 
    described in subsection (a)(2).
    ``(c) Elements.--The Program shall consist of such elements 
relating to the development and management of the security cooperation 
workforce as the Secretary considers appropriate for the purposes 
specified in subsection (b), including elements on training, 
certification, assignment, and career development of personnel of the 
security cooperation workforce.
    ``(d) Management.--The Program shall be managed by the Director of 
the Defense Security Cooperation Agency.
    ``(e) Guidance.--
        ``(1) Interim guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2017, the Secretary shall issue interim guidance for 
    the execution and administration of the Program.
        ``(2) Final guidance.--Not later than one year after the date 
    of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2017, the Secretary shall issue final guidance for the 
    execution and administration of the Program.
        ``(3) Scope of guidance.--The guidance shall do the following:
            ``(A) Provide direction to the Department of Defense on the 
        establishment of professional career paths for the personnel of 
        the security cooperation workforce, addressing training and 
        education standards, promotion opportunities and requirements, 
        retention policies, and scope of workforce demands.
            ``(B) Provide for a mechanism to identify and define 
        training and certification requirements for security 
        cooperation positions in the Department and a means to track 
        workforce skills and certifications.
            ``(C) Provide for a mechanism to establish a program of 
        professional certification in Department of Defense security 
        cooperation for personnel of the security cooperation workforce 
        in different career tracks and levels of competency based on 
        requisite training and experience.
            ``(D) Establish requirements for training and professional 
        development associated with each level of certification 
        provided for under subparagraph (C).
            ``(E) Establish and maintain a school to train, educate, 
        and certify the security cooperation workforce according to 
        standards developed for purposes of subparagraph (C).
            ``(F) Provide for a mechanism for assigning appropriately 
        certified personnel of the security cooperation workforce to 
        assignments associated with key positions in connection with 
        security cooperation programs and activities.
            ``(G) Identify the appropriate composition of career and 
        temporary personnel necessary to constitute the security 
        cooperation workforce.
            ``(H) Identify specific positions throughout the security 
        cooperation workforce to be managed and assigned through the 
        Program.
    ``(f) Source of Funds.--
        ``(1) In general.--Funds available to the Defense Security 
    Cooperation Agency, and other funds available to the Department of 
    Defense for security cooperation programs and activities of the 
    Department of Defense, may be used to carry out the Program.
        ``(2) Budget justification.--Funds necessary to carry out the 
    Program as described in paragraph (1) for a fiscal year shall be 
    identified, with appropriate justification, in the consolidated 
    budget for such fiscal year required by section 381 of this title.
    ``(g) Use of Funds.--Amounts available for use for the Program may 
be transferred to any account of the military departments or the 
Defense Agencies for purposes of the Program.
    ``(h) Security Cooperation Workforce Defined.--In this section, the 
term `security cooperation workforce' means the following:
        ``(1) Members of the armed forces and civilian employees of the 
    Department of Defense working in the security cooperation 
    organizations of United States missions overseas.
        ``(2) Members of the armed forces and civilian employees of the 
    Department of Defense in the geographic combatant commands and 
    functional combatant commands responsible for planning, monitoring, 
    or conducting security cooperation activities.
        ``(3) Members of the armed forces and civilian employees of the 
    Department of Defense in the military departments performing 
    security cooperation activities, including activities in connection 
    with the acquisition and development of technology release 
    policies.
        ``(4) Other military and civilian personnel of Defense Agencies 
    and Field Activities who perform security cooperation activities.
        ``(5) Personnel of the Department of Defense who perform 
    assessments, monitoring, or evaluations of security cooperation 
    programs and activities of the Department of Defense, including 
    assessments under section 383 of this title.
        ``(6) Other members of the armed forces or civilian employees 
    of the Department of Defense who contribute significantly to the 
    security cooperation programs and activities of the Department of 
    Defense by virtue of their assigned duties, as determined pursuant 
    to the guidance issued under subsection (e).''.
    (b) Reports on Workforce Development.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2018, and each year 
    thereafter through 2021, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the Department 
    of Defense Security Cooperation Workforce Development Program 
    required by section 384 of title 10, United States Code, as added 
    by subsection (a), for the fiscal year beginning in the year in 
    which such report is submitted.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall include, 
    for the fiscal year covered by such report, the following:
            (A) The funds requested or allocated for the Department of 
        Defense Security Cooperation Workforce Development Program and 
        for the security cooperation workforce.
            (B) A description of how the funds identified pursuant to 
        subparagraph (A) will be implemented for the following:
                (i) To address any gaps in the skills and competencies 
            of the current or anticipated security cooperation 
            workforce
                (ii) To provide incentives to retain qualified, 
            experienced personnel in the security cooperation 
            workforce.
                (iii) To provide incentives to attract and recruit new, 
            high-quality personnel to the security cooperation 
            workforce.
            (C) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 301(1) of title 10, United 
        States Code, as added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act.
            (B) The term ``security cooperation workforce'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 384(h) of title 10, United 
        States Code, as added by subsection (a).
SEC. 1251. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Codification in New Chapter on Security Cooperation 
Activities.--Chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 
385, as added by section 1241(m) of this Act, a new section 386 
consisting of--
        (1) a heading as follows:
``Sec. 386. Annual report''; and
        (2) a text consisting of subsections (a) through (e) of section 
    1211 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
    128 Stat. 3544).
    (b) Revisions To Provide for Permanent, Annual Report.--Subsection 
(a) of section 386 of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
subsection (a) of this section, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Biennial'' and all that follows through ``the 
    Secretary of Defense'' and inserting ``Annual Report Required.--Not 
    later than January 31 of each year beginning in 2018, the Secretary 
    of Defense'';
        (2) by striking ``congressional defense committees'' and 
    inserting ``appropriate congressional committees'';
        (3) by inserting ``under the authorities in subsection (c)'' 
    after ``Department of Defense'';
        (4) by striking ``security assistance'' and inserting 
    ``assistance'';
        (5) by striking ``the two fiscal years'' and inserting ``the 
    fiscal year''; and
        (6) by striking ``under the authorities in subsection (c)'' 
    after ``submitted''.
    (c) Elements of Report.--Subsection (b) of such section 386, as so 
added, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, duration,'' after 
    ``purpose'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``The cost'' and inserting 
    ``The cost and expenditures'';
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(4) For each foreign country in which defense articles, 
    defense services, supplies (including consumables), small-scale 
    construction, or reimbursement were provided, a description of the 
    extent of participation, if any, by the military forces and 
    security forces or other government organizations of such foreign 
    country.
        ``(5) The number of members of the United States armed forces 
    involved in providing such defense articles, defense services, 
    supplies (including consumables), and small-scale construction, 
    and, if applicable, a description of the military benefits for such 
    members involved in providing such training, equipment, or 
    assistance.
        ``(6) A summary, by authority, of the activities carried out 
    under each authority specified in subsection (c).''.
    (d) Modification to Specified Authorities.--Subsection (c) of such 
section 386, as so added, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (1):
        ``(1) Sections 311, 321, 331, 332, 333, 344, 348, 349, and 350 
    of this title.'';
        (2) by striking paragraphs (4), (5), (7), (10), (11), and (12);
        (3) by redesignating paragraphs (6), (8), (9), and (13) through 
    (16) as paragraphs (4) through (10), respectively;
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (10), as redesignated by 
    paragraph (3) of this subsection, the following new paragraphs:
        ``(11) Section 401 of this title, relating to humanitarian and 
    civic assistance provided in conjunction with military operations.
        ``(12) Section 1206 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' 
    McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (128 
    Stat. 3538; 10 U.S.C. 2282 note), relating to authority to conduct 
    human rights training of security forces and associated security 
    ministries of foreign countries.'';
        (5) by redesignating paragraph (17) as paragraph (13); and
        (6) by striking ``of title 10, United States Code'' each place 
    it appears and inserting ``of this title''.
    (e) Modification of Nonduplication of Effort Requirement.--
Subsection (d) of such section 386, as so added, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``If any information'' and inserting the 
    following:
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), if any 
    information''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to 
    information required under subsection (a) that is required to be 
    submitted as described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection 
    (b).''.
    (f) Form.--Subsection (e) of such section 386, as so added, is 
amended by inserting ``that may also include other sensitive 
information'' after ``annex''.
    (g) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1211 of the Carl Levin and Howard 
P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 is repealed.
SEC. 1252. QUADRENNIAL REVIEW OF SECURITY SECTOR ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS 
AND AUTHORITIES OF THE UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT.
    (a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that the principal goals of the security sector assistance programs and 
authorities of the United States Government are as follows:
        (1) To assist partner nations in building sustainable 
    capability to address common security challenges with the United 
    States.
        (2) To promote partner nation support for United States 
    interests.
        (3) To promote universal values, such as good governance, 
    transparent and accountable oversight of security forces, rule of 
    law, transparency, accountability, delivery of fair and effective 
    justice, and respect for human rights.
        (4) To strengthen collective security and multinational defense 
    arrangements and organizations of which the United States is a 
    participant.
    (b) Quadrennial Review.--
        (1) Review required.--Not later than January 31, 2018, and 
    every four years thereafter though 2034, the President shall 
    complete a review of the security sector assistance programs, 
    policies, authorities, and resources of the United States 
    Government across the United States Government.
        (2) Elements.--Each review under this subsection shall include 
    the following:
            (A) An examination whether the current security sector 
        assistance programs, policies, authorities, and resources of 
        the United States Government are sufficient to achieve the 
        goals specified in subsection (a), and an identification of any 
        gaps or shortfalls needing mitigation.
            (B) An examination of the success of such programs and 
        resources in achieving such goals, based on a review of 
        relevant departmental and interagency programmatic and 
        strategic evaluations.
            (C) An examination of the extent to which the security 
        sector assistance of the United States Government is aligned 
        with national security and foreign policy objectives, conducted 
        in support of clear and coherent policy guidance, and planned 
        and executed in accordance with identified best practices.
            (D) The development of recommendations, as appropriate, for 
        improving the security sector assistance programs, policies, 
        authorities, and resources of the United States Government to 
        more effectively achieve the goals specified in subsection (a) 
        and support other national security objectives.
        (3) Submittal to congress.--Not later than 60 days after the 
    completion of a review under this subsection, the President shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting 
    forth a summary of the review, including any recommendations 
    developed pursuant to paragraph (2)(D).
        (4) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section section 301(1) of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act.
SEC. 1253. OTHER CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND AUTHORITY FOR 
ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Repeal of Other Superseded, Obsolete, or Duplicative 
Statutes.--
        (1) In general.--The following provisions of title 10, United 
    States Code, are repealed:
            (A) Section 168, relating to military-to-military contacts 
        and comparable activities.
            (B) Section 1051c, relating to assignment of members of 
        foreign military forces to improve education and training in 
        information security through multilateral, bilateral, or 
        regional cooperation programs.
            (C) Section 2562, relating to a limitation on use of excess 
        construction or fire equipment from Department of Defense 
        stocks in foreign assistance or military sales programs.
            (D) Sections 4681 and 9681, relating to sale of surplus war 
        material to States and foreign governments.
        (2) Clerical amendments.--Title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended as follows:
            (A) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 6 is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 168.
            (B) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 53 is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 1051c.
            (C) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 152 
        is amended by striking the item relating to section 2562.
            (D) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 443 
        is amended by striking the item relating to section 4681.
            (E) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 943 
        is amended by striking the item relating to section 9681.
    (b) Savings Clause.--Any determination or other action made or 
taken before the date of the enactment of this Act under a provision of 
law transferred or repealed by this subchapter that is in effect as of 
the date of the enactment of this Act and is necessary for the 
administration of a successor authority to such provision of law under 
chapter 16 of title 10, United States Code, by reason of the enactment 
of such chapter by this subchapter shall remain in effect, in 
accordance with the terms of such determination or action when made or 
taken, for purposes of the administration of such successor authority.
    (c) Report on Discharge of Certain Activities Under New Security 
Cooperation Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than October 1, 2017, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report setting forth a description of any gaps that exist between 
    applicable authorities in chapter 16 of title 10, United States 
    Code, as added by section 1241(a)(3) of this Act, and the current 
    law or other authorities under which activities under the 
    initiatives specified in paragraph (2) are carried out.
        (2) Initiatives.--The initiatives specified in this paragraph 
    are the following:
            (A) The Southeast Asia Maritime Security Initiative.
            (B) The Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
        (3) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A description of each discrete set of activities under 
        an initiative specified in paragraph (2) for which gaps exist 
        between the applicable authorities in chapter 16 of title 10, 
        United States Code, as so added, and current law or other 
        authorities under which such activities are carried out.
            (B) For each discrete set of activities covered by 
        subparagraph (A), the following:
                (i) A description of the gaps described in subparagraph 
            (A).
                (ii) Recommendations for legislative or administrative 
            action to address such gaps.

                   Subtitle F--Human Rights Sanctions

SEC. 1261. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Global Magnitsky Human Rights 
Accountability Act''.
SEC. 1262. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 595.304 of title 31, Code of 
    Federal Regulations (as in effect on the day before the date of the 
    enactment of this Act).
        (2) Gross violations of internationally recognized human 
    rights.--The term ``gross violations of internationally recognized 
    human rights'' has the meaning given that term in section 
    502B(d)(1) of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 
    2304(d)(1)).
        (3) Person.--The term ``person'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 591.308 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations 
    (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
    Act).
        (4) United states person.--The term ``United States person'' 
    has the meaning given that term in section 595.315 of title 31, 
    Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the day before the 
    date of the enactment of this Act).
SEC. 1263. AUTHORIZATION OF IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.
    (a) In General.--The President may impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to any foreign person the President 
determines, based on credible evidence--
        (1) is responsible for extrajudicial killings, torture, or 
    other gross violations of internationally recognized human rights 
    committed against individuals in any foreign country who seek--
            (A) to expose illegal activity carried out by government 
        officials; or
            (B) to obtain, exercise, defend, or promote internationally 
        recognized human rights and freedoms, such as the freedoms of 
        religion, expression, association, and assembly, and the rights 
        to a fair trial and democratic elections;
        (2) acted as an agent of or on behalf of a foreign person in a 
    matter relating to an activity described in paragraph (1);
        (3) is a government official, or a senior associate of such an 
    official, that is responsible for, or complicit in, ordering, 
    controlling, or otherwise directing, acts of significant 
    corruption, including the expropriation of private or public assets 
    for personal gain, corruption related to government contracts or 
    the extraction of natural resources, bribery, or the facilitation 
    or transfer of the proceeds of corruption to foreign jurisdictions; 
    or
        (4) has materially assisted, sponsored, or provided financial, 
    material, or technological support for, or goods or services in 
    support of, an activity described in paragraph (3).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection are the following:
        (1) Inadmissibility to united states.--In the case of a foreign 
    person who is an individual--
            (A) ineligibility to receive a visa to enter the United 
        States or to be admitted to the United States; or
            (B) if the individual has been issued a visa or other 
        documentation, revocation, in accordance with section 221(i) of 
        the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1201(i)), of the 
        visa or other documentation.
        (2) Blocking of property.--
            (A) In general.--The blocking, in accordance with the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
        seq.), of all transactions in all property and interests in 
        property of a foreign person if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within the United 
        States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
        United States person.
            (B) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
        requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for 
        purposes of this section.
            (C) Exception relating to importation of goods.--
                (i) In general.--The authority to block and prohibit 
            all transactions in all property and interests in property 
            under subparagraph (A) shall not include the authority to 
            impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
                (ii) Good.--In this subparagraph, the term ``good'' has 
            the meaning given that term in section 16 of the Export 
            Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4618) (as continued 
            in effect pursuant to the International Emergency Economic 
            Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)).
    (c) Consideration of Certain Information in Imposing Sanctions.--In 
determining whether to impose sanctions under subsection (a), the 
President shall consider--
        (1) information provided jointly by the chairperson and ranking 
    member of each of the appropriate congressional committees; and
        (2) credible information obtained by other countries and 
    nongovernmental organizations that monitor violations of human 
    rights.
    (d) Requests by Appropriate Congressional Committees.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after receiving a 
    request that meets the requirements of paragraph (2) with respect 
    to whether a foreign person has engaged in an activity described in 
    subsection (a), the President shall--
            (A) determine if that person has engaged in such an 
        activity; and
            (B) submit a classified or unclassified report to the 
        chairperson and ranking member of the committee or committees 
        that submitted the request with respect to that determination 
        that includes--
                (i) a statement of whether or not the President imposed 
            or intends to impose sanctions with respect to the person; 
            and
                (ii) if the President imposed or intends to impose 
            sanctions, a description of those sanctions.
        (2) Requirements.--
            (A) Requests relating to human rights violations.--A 
        request under paragraph (1) with respect to whether a foreign 
        person has engaged in an activity described in paragraph (1) or 
        (2) of subsection (a) shall be submitted to the President in 
        writing jointly by the chairperson and ranking member of one of 
        the appropriate congressional committees.
            (B) Requests relating to corruption.--A request under 
        paragraph (1) with respect to whether a foreign person has 
        engaged in an activity described in paragraph (3) or (4) of 
        subsection (a) shall be submitted to the President in writing 
        jointly by the chairperson and ranking member of--
                (i) one of the appropriate congressional committees of 
            the Senate; and
                (ii) one of the appropriate congressional committees of 
            the House of Representatives.
    (e) Exception To Comply With United Nations Headquarters Agreement 
and Law Enforcement Objectives.--Sanctions under subsection (b)(1) 
shall not apply to an individual if admitting the individual into the 
United States would further important law enforcement objectives or is 
necessary to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement 
regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake 
Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, 
between the United Nations and the United States, or other applicable 
international obligations of the United States.
    (f) Enforcement of Blocking of Property.--A person that violates, 
attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of a 
sanction described in subsection (b)(2) that is imposed by the 
President or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out such 
a sanction shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections 
(b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic 
Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to the same extent as a person that commits 
an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section.
    (g) Termination of Sanctions.--The President may terminate the 
application of sanctions under this section with respect to a person if 
the President determines and reports to the appropriate congressional 
committees not later than 15 days before the termination of the 
sanctions that--
        (1) credible information exists that the person did not engage 
    in the activity for which sanctions were imposed;
        (2) the person has been prosecuted appropriately for the 
    activity for which sanctions were imposed;
        (3) the person has credibly demonstrated a significant change 
    in behavior, has paid an appropriate consequence for the activity 
    for which sanctions were imposed, and has credibly committed to not 
    engage in an activity described in subsection (a) in the future; or
        (4) the termination of the sanctions is in the national 
    security interests of the United States.
    (h) Regulatory Authority.--The President shall issue such 
regulations, licenses, and orders as are necessary to carry out this 
section.
    (i) Identification of Sanctionable Foreign Persons.--The Assistant 
Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, in 
consultation with the Assistant Secretary of State for Consular Affairs 
and other bureaus of the Department of State, as appropriate, is 
authorized to submit to the Secretary of State, for review and 
consideration, the names of foreign persons who may meet the criteria 
described in subsection (a).
    (j) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs and 
    the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1264. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.
    (a) In General.--The President shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees, in accordance with subsection (b), a report 
that includes--
        (1) a list of each foreign person with respect to which the 
    President imposed sanctions pursuant to section 1263 during the 
    year preceding the submission of the report;
        (2) a description of the type of sanctions imposed with respect 
    to each such person;
        (3) the number of foreign persons with respect to which the 
    President--
            (A) imposed sanctions under section 1263(a) during that 
        year; and
            (B) terminated sanctions under section 1263(g) during that 
        year;
        (4) the dates on which such sanctions were imposed or 
    terminated, as the case may be;
        (5) the reasons for imposing or terminating such sanctions; and
        (6) a description of the efforts of the President to encourage 
    the governments of other countries to impose sanctions that are 
    similar to the sanctions authorized by section 1263.
    (b) Dates for Submission.--
        (1) Initial report.--The President shall submit the initial 
    report under subsection (a) not later than 120 days after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Subsequent reports.--
            (A) In general.--The President shall submit a subsequent 
        report under subsection (a) on December 10, or the first day 
        thereafter on which both Houses of Congress are in session, 
        of--
                (i) the calendar year in which the initial report is 
            submitted if the initial report is submitted before 
            December 10 of that calendar year; and
                (ii) each calendar year thereafter.
            (B) Congressional statement.--Congress notes that December 
        10 of each calendar year has been recognized in the United 
        States and internationally since 1950 as ``Human Rights Day''.
    (c) Form of Report.--
        (1) In general.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
    be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
        (2) Exception.--The name of a foreign person to be included in 
    the list required by subsection (a)(1) may be submitted in the 
    classified annex authorized by paragraph (1) only if the 
    President--
            (A) determines that it is vital for the national security 
        interests of the United States to do so;
            (B) uses the annex in a manner consistent with 
        congressional intent and the purposes of this subtitle; and
            (C) not later than 15 days before submitting the name in a 
        classified annex, provides to the appropriate congressional 
        committees notice of, and a justification for, including the 
        name in the classified annex despite any publicly available 
        credible information indicating that the person engaged in an 
        activity described in section 1263(a).
    (d) Public Availability.--
        (1) In general.--The unclassified portion of the report 
    required by subsection (a) shall be made available to the public, 
    including through publication in the Federal Register.
        (2) Nonapplicability of confidentiality requirement with 
    respect to visa records.--The President shall publish the list 
    required by subsection (a)(1) without regard to the requirements of 
    section 222(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
    1202(f)) with respect to confidentiality of records pertaining to 
    the issuance or refusal of visas or permits to enter the United 
    States.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Banking, 
    Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Foreign Relations, and 
    the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Financial 
    Services, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on 
    the Judiciary of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1265. SUNSET.
    (a) In General.--The authority to impose sanctions under this 
subtitle shall terminate on the date that is 6 years after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Continuation in Effect of Sanctions.--Sanctions imposed under 
this subtitle on or before the date specified in subsection (a), and in 
effect as of such date, shall remain in effect until terminated in 
accordance with the requirements of section 1263(g).

                   Subtitle G--Miscellaneous Reports

SEC. 1271. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
    (a) Annual Report.--Subsection (a) of section 1202 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 113 
Stat. 781; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is amended by striking ``March 1 each 
year'' and inserting ``January 31 of each year through January 31, 
2021''.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--Subsection (b) of such section, as 
most recently amended by section 1252(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard 
P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3571), is further amended by adding 
at the end the following:
        ``(21) A summary of the order of battle of the People's 
    Liberation Army, including anti-ship ballistic missiles, theater 
    ballistic missiles, and land attack cruise missile inventory.
        ``(22) A description of the People's Republic of China's 
    military and nonmilitary activities in the South China Sea.''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with respect 
to reports required to be submitted under subsection (a) of section 
1202 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 on 
or after that date.
SEC. 1272. MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, 
DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act for Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid, the 
Secretary of Defense is authorized to use up to 5 percent of such 
amounts to conduct monitoring and evaluation of programs that are 
funded using such amounts during fiscal years 2017 and 2018.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
appropriate congressional committees a briefing on mechanisms to 
evaluate the programs conducted pursuant to the authorities listed in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Definition.--In subsection (b), the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1273. STRATEGY FOR UNITED STATES DEFENSE INTERESTS IN AFRICA.
    (a) Required Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Secretary of State, shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that contains the strategy for United States 
defense interests in Africa.
    (b) Matters To Be Included.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall address the following:
        (1) United States national security interests in Africa, 
    including an assessment of threats to global and regional United 
    States national security interests emanating from the continent.
        (2) United States defense objectives in Africa.
        (3) Courses of action to accomplish United States defense 
    objectives in Africa, including those conducted in cooperation with 
    other Federal agencies.
        (4) Measures to improve coordination between United States 
    Africa Command and other combatant commands to achieve unity of 
    effort to counter threats that cross combatant command boundaries.
        (5) Department of Defense capabilities and resources required 
    to achieve defense objectives in Africa, and the mitigation plan to 
    address any gaps in such capabilities or resources that affect the 
    implementation of the strategy required by subsection (a).
        (6) Security cooperation initiatives to advance defense 
    objectives in Africa.
        (7) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex if necessary.
SEC. 1274. REPORT ON THE POTENTIAL FOR COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED 
STATES AND ISRAEL ON DIRECTED ENERGY CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the potential for 
cooperative development by the United States and Israel of a directed 
energy capability to defeat ballistic missiles, cruise missiles, 
unmanned aerial vehicles, mortars, and improvised explosive devices 
that threaten the United States, deployed forces of the United States, 
or Israel. The report shall include the following:
        (1) An assessment of the technological maturity of United 
    States and Israeli directed energy capabilities to defeat adversary 
    threat systems.
        (2) An assessment of the respective military capability gaps of 
    each country that such directed energy developments could address.
        (3) An assessment of the opportunities for the United States 
    and Israel to cooperate to develop directed energy capabilities to 
    defeat adversary threat systems, including estimated costs of 
    pursuing such opportunities.
        (4) An assessment of whether such opportunities should be 
    pursued, including any potential risks from the pursuit of such 
    opportunities.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (b) Form.--The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1275. ANNUAL UPDATE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE FREEDOM OF NAVIGATION 
REPORT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives on an annual basis a report setting forth an update of 
the most current Department of Defense Freedom of Navigation Report 
under the Freedom of Navigation Operations (FONOPS) program. The 
purpose of each report shall be to document the types and locations of 
excessive claims that the Armed Forces of the United States have 
challenged in the previous year in order to preserve the rights, 
freedoms, and uses of the sea and airspace guaranteed to all countries 
by international law.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under this section shall include, for 
the year covered by such report, the following:
        (1) Each excessive maritime claim challenged by the United 
    States under the program referred to in subsection (a), including 
    the country making each such claim.
        (2) The nature of each claim, including the geographic location 
    or area covered by such claim (including the body of water and 
    island grouping, when applicable).
        (3) The specific legal challenge asserted through the program.
    (c) Form.--Each report under this section shall be submitted in 
unclassified form.
    (d) Sunset.--No report is required under this section after 
December 31, 2021.
SEC. 1276. ASSESSMENT OF PROLIFERATION OF CERTAIN REMOTELY PILOTED 
AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS.
    (a) Report on Assessment of Proliferation of Remotely Piloted 
Aircraft Systems.--Not later than 6 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth 
an assessment, obtained by the Chairman for purposes of the report, of 
the impact to United States national security interests of the 
proliferation of remotely piloted aircraft that are assessed to be 
``Category I'' items under the Missile Technology Control Regime 
(MTCR).
    (b) Independent Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--The assessment obtained for purposes of 
    subsection (a) shall be conducted by a federally funded research 
    and development center (FFRDC), or another appropriate independent 
    entity with expertise in the procurement and operation of remotely 
    piloted aircraft, selected by the Chairman for purposes of the 
    assessment.
        (2) Use of previous studies.--The entity conducting the 
    assessment may use and incorporate information from previous 
    studies on matters appropriate to the assessment.
    (c) Elements.--The assessment obtained for purposes of subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
        (1) A qualitative and quantitative assessment of the scope and 
    scale of the proliferation of remotely piloted aircraft that are 
    ``Category I'' items under the Missile Technology Control Regime.
        (2) An assessment of the threat posed to United States 
    interests as a result of the proliferation of such aircraft to 
    adversaries.
        (3) An assessment of the impact of the proliferation of such 
    aircraft on the combat capabilities of and interoperability with 
    partners and allies of the United States.
        (4) An analysis of the degree to which the United States has 
    limited the proliferation of such aircraft as a result of the 
    application of a ``strong presumption of denial'' for exports of 
    such aircraft.
        (5) An assessment of the benefits and risks of continuing to 
    limit exports of such aircraft.
        (6) Such other matters as the Chairman considers appropriate.
    (d) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                       Subtitle H--Other Matters

SEC. 1281. ENHANCEMENT OF INTERAGENCY SUPPORT DURING CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS AND TRANSITION PERIODS.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State 
may enter into an agreement under which each Secretary may provide 
covered support, supplies, and services on a reimbursement basis, or by 
exchange of covered support, supplies, and services, to the other 
Secretary during a contingency operation and related transition period 
for up to 2 years following the end of such contingency operation.
    (b) Agreement.--An agreement entered into under this section shall 
be in writing and shall include the following terms:
        (1) The price charged by a supplying agency shall be the direct 
    costs that such agency incurred by providing the covered support, 
    supplies, or services to the requesting agency under this section.
        (2) Credits and liabilities of the agencies accrued as a result 
    of acquisitions and transfers of covered support, supplies, and 
    services under this section shall be liquidated not less often than 
    once every 3 months by direct payment to the agency supplying such 
    support, supplies, or services by the agency receiving such 
    support, supplies, or services.
        (3) Exchange entitlements accrued as a result of acquisitions 
    and transfers of covered support, supplies, and services under this 
    section shall be satisfied within 12 months after the date of the 
    delivery of the covered support, supplies, or services. Exchange 
    entitlements not so satisfied shall be immediately liquidated by 
    direct payment to the agency supplying such covered support, 
    supplies, or services.
    (c) Effect of Obligation and Availability of Funds.--An order 
placed by an agency pursuant to an agreement under this section is 
deemed to be an obligation in the same manner that a similar order 
placed under a contract with, or a contract for similar goods or 
services awarded to, a private contractor is an obligation. 
Appropriations remain available to pay an obligation to the servicing 
agency in the same manner as appropriations remain available to pay an 
obligation to a private contractor.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Covered support, supplies, and services.--The term 
    ``covered support, supplies, and services'' means food, billeting, 
    transportation (including airlift), petroleum, oils, lubricants, 
    communications services, medical services, ammunition, base 
    operations support, use of facilities, spare parts and components, 
    repair and maintenance services, and calibration services.
        (2) Contingency operation.--The term ``contingency operation'' 
    has the meaning given that term in section 101(a)(13) of title 10, 
    United States Code.
    (e) Crediting of Receipts.--Any receipt as a result of an agreement 
entered into under this section shall be credited, at the option of the 
Secretary of Defense with respect to the Department of Defense and the 
Secretary of State with respect to the Department of State, to--
        (1) the appropriation, fund, or account used in incurring the 
    obligation; or
        (2) an appropriate appropriation, fund, or account currently 
    available for the purposes for which the expenditures were made.
    (f) Notification.--Not later than 30 days after the end of a fiscal 
year in which covered support, supplies, and services are provided or 
exchanged pursuant to an agreement under this section, the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the 
congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Relations of 
the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
Representatives a notification that contains a copy of such agreement 
and a description of such covered support, supplies, and services.
SEC. 1282. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZATION OF NON-
CONVENTIONAL ASSISTED RECOVERY CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 943 of the 
Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
(Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4579), as most recently amended by 
section 1271 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1075), is further amended by 
striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2021''.
    (b) Modification to Authorized Activities.--Subsection (c) of such 
section is amended by inserting ``, or other individuals, as determined 
by the Secretary of Defense, with respect to already established non-
conventional assisted recovery capabilities'' before the period at the 
end of the first sentence.
SEC. 1283. AUTHORITY TO DESTROY CERTAIN SPECIFIED WORLD WAR II-ERA 
UNITED STATES-ORIGIN CHEMICAL MUNITIONS LOCATED ON SAN JOSE ISLAND, 
REPUBLIC OF PANAMA.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of 
    Defense may destroy the chemical munitions described in subsection 
    (c).
        (2) Ex gratia action.--The action authorized by this section is 
    ``ex gratia'' on the part of the United States, as the term ``ex 
    gratia'' is used in section 321 of the Strom Thurmond National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 
    10 U.S.C. 2701 note).
        (3) Consultation between secretary of defense and secretary of 
    state.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall 
    consult and develop any arrangements with the Republic of Panama 
    with respect to this section.
    (b) Conditions.--The Secretary of Defense may exercise the 
authority under subsection (a) only if the Republic of Panama has--
        (1) revised the declaration of the Republic of Panama under the 
    Convention on the Prohibition of the Development, Production, 
    Stockpiling and Use of Chemical Weapons and on Their Destruction to 
    indicate that the chemical munitions described in subsection (c) 
    are ``old chemical weapons'' rather than ``abandoned chemical 
    weapons''; and
        (2) affirmed, in writing, that it understands (A) that the 
    United States intends only to destroy the munitions described in 
    subsections (c) and (d), and (B) that the United States is not 
    legally obligated and does not intend to destroy any other 
    munitions, munitions constituents, and associated debris that may 
    be located on San Jose Island as a result of research, development, 
    and testing activities conducted on San Jose Island during the 
    period of 1943 through 1947.
    (c) Chemical Munitions.--The chemical munitions described in this 
subsection are the eight United States-origin chemical munitions 
located on San Jose Island, Republic of Panama, that were identified in 
the 2002 Final Inspection Report of the Technical Secretariat of the 
Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons.
    (d) Limited Incidental Authority To Destroy Other Munitions.--In 
exercising the authority under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense 
may destroy other munitions located on San Jose Island, Republic of 
Panama, but only to the extent essential and required to reach and 
destroy the chemical munitions described in subsection (c).
    (e) Source of Funds.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act, the Secretary of Defense may use up to $30,000,000 from 
amounts made available for Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, 
Defense to carry out the authority in subsection (a).
    (f) Sunset.--The authority under subsection (a) shall terminate on 
the date that is 3 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1284. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON MILITARY EXCHANGES BETWEEN THE UNITED 
STATES AND TAIWAN.
    (a) Military Exchanges Between Senior Officers and Officials of the 
United States and Taiwan.--The Secretary of Defense should carry out a 
program of exchanges of senior military officers and senior officials 
between the United States and Taiwan designed to improve military to 
military relations between the United States and Taiwan.
    (b) Exchanges Described.--For the purposes of this section, an 
exchange is an activity, exercise, event, or observation opportunity 
between members of the Armed Forces and officials of the Department of 
Defense, on the one hand, and armed forces personnel and officials of 
Taiwan, on the other hand.
    (c) Focus of Exchanges.--The exchanges under the program described 
in subsection (a) should include exchanges focused on the following:
        (1) Threat analysis.
        (2) Military doctrine.
        (3) Force planning.
        (4) Logistical support.
        (5) Intelligence collection and analysis.
        (6) Operational tactics, techniques, and procedures.
        (7) Humanitarian assistance and disaster relief.
    (d) Civil-Military Affairs.--The exchanges under the program 
described in subsection (a) should include activities and exercises 
focused on civil-military relations, including parliamentary relations.
    (e) Location of Exchanges.--The exchanges under the program 
described in subsection (a) should be conducted in both the United 
States and Taiwan.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``senior military officer'', with respect to the 
    Armed Forces, means a general or flag officer of the Armed Forces 
    on active duty.
        (2) The term ``senior official'', with respect to the 
    Department of Defense, means a civilian official of the Department 
    of Defense at the level of Assistant Secretary of Defense or above.
SEC. 1285. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT THE ARMS 
TRADE TREATY.
    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement the 
Arms Trade Treaty, or to make any change to existing programs, 
projects, or activities as approved by Congress in furtherance of, 
pursuant to, or otherwise to implement the Arms Trade Treaty, unless 
the Arms Trade Treaty has received the advice and consent of the Senate 
and has been the subject of implementing legislation, as required, by 
Congress.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to preclude the Department of Defense from assisting foreign 
countries in bringing their laws and regulations up to United States 
standards.
SEC. 1286. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO INVITE, ASSIST, OR OTHERWISE 
ASSURE THE PARTICIPATION OF CUBA IN CERTAIN JOINT OR MULTILATERAL 
EXERCISES.
    (a) Prohibition.--The Secretary of Defense may not use any funds 
authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for fiscal 
year 2017 for the Department of Defense to invite, assist, or otherwise 
assure the participation of the Government of Cuba in any joint or 
multilateral exercise or related security conference between the 
Governments of the United States and Cuba until the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Director 
of National Intelligence, certify to the appropriate congressional 
committees that--
        (1) the Cuban military has ceased committing human rights 
    abuses against civil rights activists and other citizens of Cuba;
        (2) the Cuban military has ceased providing military 
    intelligence, weapons training, strategic planning, and security 
    logistics to the military and security forces of Venezuela;
        (3) the Cuban military and other security forces in Cuba have 
    ceased all persecution, intimidation, arrest, imprisonment, and 
    assassination of dissidents and members of faith-based 
    organizations;
        (4) the Government of Cuba no longer demands that the United 
    States relinquish control of Guantanamo Bay, in violation of an 
    international treaty; and
        (5) the officials of the Cuban military that were indicted in 
    the murder of United States citizens during the shootdown of planes 
    operated by the Brothers to the Rescue humanitarian organization in 
    1996 are brought to justice.
    (b) Exceptions.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
with respect to--
        (1) payments in furtherance of the lease agreement, or other 
    financial transactions necessary for maintenance and improvements 
    of the military base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, including any 
    adjacent areas under the control or possession of the United 
    States;
        (2) assistance or support in furtherance of democracy-building 
    efforts for Cuba described in section 109 of the Cuban Liberty and 
    Democratic Solidarity (LIBERTAD) Act of 1996 (22 U.S.C. 6039);
        (3) customary and routine financial transactions necessary for 
    the maintenance, improvements, or regular duties of the United 
    States mission in Havana, including outreach to the pro-democracy 
    opposition; or
        (4) any joint or multilateral exercise or operation related to 
    humanitarian assistance or disaster response.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1287. GLOBAL ENGAGEMENT CENTER.
    (a) Establishment.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with 
    the Secretary of Defense and the heads of other relevant Federal 
    departments and agencies, shall establish within the Department of 
    State a Global Engagement Center (in this section referred to as 
    the ``Center'').
        (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Center shall be to lead, 
    synchronize, and coordinate efforts of the Federal Government to 
    recognize, understand, expose, and counter foreign state and non-
    state propaganda and disinformation efforts aimed at undermining 
    United States national security interests.
    (b) Functions.--The Center shall carry out the following functions:
        (1) Integrate interagency and international efforts to track 
    and evaluate counterfactual narratives abroad that threaten the 
    national security interests of the United States and United States 
    allies and partner nations.
        (2) Analyze relevant information, data, analysis, and analytics 
    from United States Government agencies, United States allies and 
    partner nations, think tanks, academic institutions, civil society 
    groups, and other nongovernmental organizations.
        (3) As needed, support the development and dissemination of 
    fact-based narratives and analysis to counter propaganda and 
    disinformation directed at the United States and United States 
    allies and partner nations.
        (4) Identify current and emerging trends in foreign propaganda 
    and disinformation in order to coordinate and shape the development 
    of tactics, techniques, and procedures to expose and refute foreign 
    misinformation and disinformation and proactively promote fact-
    based narratives and policies to audiences outside the United 
    States.
        (5) Facilitate the use of a wide range of technologies and 
    techniques by sharing expertise among Federal departments and 
    agencies, seeking expertise from external sources, and implementing 
    best practices.
        (6) Identify gaps in United States capabilities in areas 
    relevant to the purpose of the Center and recommend necessary 
    enhancements or changes.
        (7) Identify the countries and populations most susceptible to 
    propaganda and disinformation based on information provided by 
    appropriate interagency entities.
        (8) Administer the information access fund established pursuant 
    to subsection (f).
        (9) Coordinate with United States allies and partner nations in 
    order to amplify the Center's efforts and avoid duplication.
        (10) Maintain, collect, use, and disseminate records (as such 
    term is defined in section 552a(a)(4) of title 5, United States 
    Code) for research and data analysis of foreign state and non-state 
    propaganda and disinformation efforts and communications related to 
    public diplomacy efforts intended for foreign audiences. Such 
    research and data analysis shall be reasonably tailored to meet the 
    purposes of this paragraph and shall be carried out with due regard 
    for privacy and civil liberties guidance and oversight.
    (c) Head of Center.--
        (1) Appointment.--The head of the Center shall be an individual 
    who is an official of the Federal Government, who shall be 
    appointed by the President.
        (2) Compliance with privacy and civil liberties laws.--The 
    President shall designate a senior official to develop guidance for 
    the Center relating to relevant privacy and civil liberties laws 
    and to ensure compliance with such guidance.
    (d) Employees of the Center.--
        (1) Detailees.--Any Federal Government employee may be detailed 
    to the Center without reimbursement, and such detail shall be 
    without interruption or loss of civil service status or privilege 
    for a period of not more than 3 years.
        (2) Personal service contractors.--The Secretary of State may 
    hire United States citizens or aliens as personal services 
    contractors for purposes of personnel resources of the Center, if--
            (A) the Secretary determines that existing personnel 
        resources are insufficient;
            (B) the period in which services are provided by a personal 
        services contractor, including options, does not exceed 3 
        years, unless the Secretary determines that exceptional 
        circumstances justify an extension of up to one additional 
        year;
            (C) not more than 50 United States citizens or aliens are 
        employed as personal services contractors under the authority 
        of this paragraph at any time; and
            (D) the authority of this paragraph is only used to obtain 
        specialized skills or experience or to respond to urgent needs.
    (e) Transfer of Amounts Authorized.--
        (1) In general.--If amounts authorized to be appropriated or 
    otherwise made available to carry out the functions of the Center--
            (A) for fiscal year 2017 are less than $80,000,000, the 
        Secretary of Defense is authorized to transfer, from amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated by this Act for the Department of 
        Defense for fiscal year 2017, to the Secretary of State an 
        amount, not to exceed $60,000,000, to be available to carry out 
        the functions of the Center for fiscal year 2017; and
            (B) for fiscal year 2018 are less than $80,000,000, the 
        Secretary of Defense is authorized to transfer, from amounts 
        authorized to be appropriated by an Act authorizing funds for 
        the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018, to the 
        Secretary of State an amount, not to exceed $60,000,000, to be 
        available to carry out the functions of the Center for fiscal 
        year 2018.
        (2) Notice requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify 
    the congressional defense committees of a proposed transfer under 
    paragraph (1) not less than 15 days prior to making such transfer.
        (3) Inapplicability of reprogramming requirements.--The 
    authority to transfer amounts under paragraph (1) shall not be 
    subject to any reprogramming requirement under any other provision 
    of law.
    (f) Information Access Fund.--
        (1) Authority for grants.--The Center is authorized to provide 
    grants or contracts of financial support to civil society groups, 
    media content providers, nongovernmental organizations, federally 
    funded research and development centers, private companies, or 
    academic institutions for the following purposes:
            (A) To support local independent media who are best placed 
        to refute foreign disinformation and manipulation in their own 
        communities.
            (B) To collect and store examples in print, online, and 
        social media, disinformation, misinformation, and propaganda 
        directed at the United States and its allies and partners.
            (C) To analyze and report on tactics, techniques, and 
        procedures of foreign information warfare with respect to 
        disinformation, misinformation, and propaganda.
            (D) To support efforts by the Center to counter efforts by 
        foreign entities to use disinformation, misinformation, and 
        propaganda to influence the policies and social and political 
        stability of the United States and United States allies and 
        partner nations.
        (2) Funding availability and limitations.--The Secretary of 
    State shall provide that each organization that applies to receive 
    funds under this subsection is selected in accordance with the 
    relevant existing regulations to ensure its bona fides, capability, 
    and experience, and its compatibility with United States interests 
    and objectives.
    (g) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date on 
    which the Center is established, the Secretary of State shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    evaluating the success of the Center in carrying out its functions 
    under subsection (b) and outlining steps to improve any areas of 
    deficiency.
        (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``appropriate 
    congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of 
        the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on 
        Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security, and the 
        Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (h) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available to carry out this section shall be used for 
purposes other than countering foreign propaganda and misinformation 
that threatens United States national security.
    (i) Termination.--The Center shall terminate on the date that is 8 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1288. MODIFICATION OF UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING ACT 
OF 1994.
    The United States International Broadcasting Act of 1994 (22 U.S.C. 
6201 et seq.; Public Law 103-236) is amended--
        (1) by amending section 304 (22 U.S.C. 6203) to read as 
    follows:
    ``SEC. 304. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER OF THE 
      BROADCASTING BOARD OF GOVERNORS.
    ``(a) Continued Existence Within Executive Branch.--The 
Broadcasting Board of Governors shall continue to exist within the 
Executive branch of Government as an entity described in section 104 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    ``(b) Chief Executive Officer.--
        ``(1) In general.--The head of the Broadcasting Board of 
    Governors shall be a Chief Executive Officer, who shall be 
    appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of 
    the Senate. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, until such 
    time as a Chief Executive Officer is appointed and has qualified, 
    the current or acting Chief Executive Officer appointed by the 
    Board may continue to serve and exercise the authorities and powers 
    under this Act.
        ``(2) Term.--The first Chief Executive Officer appointed 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) shall serve for an initial term of three 
    years.
        ``(3) Compensation.--A Chief Executive Officer appointed 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be compensated at the annual rate 
    of basic pay for level III of the Executive Schedule under section 
    5314 of title 5, United States Code.
    ``(c) Termination of Director of International Broadcasting 
Bureau.--Effective on the date of the enactment of this section, the 
position of the Director of the International Broadcasting Bureau shall 
be terminated, and all of the responsibilities, offices, authorities, 
and immunities of the Director or the Board under this or any other Act 
or authority before such date of enactment shall be transferred or 
available to, assumed by, or overseen by the Chief Executive Officer, 
as head of the Board.
    ``(d) Immunity From Civil Liability.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, all limitations on liability that apply to the Chief 
Executive Officer shall also apply to members of the boards of 
directors of RFE/RL, Inc., Radio Free Asia, the Middle East 
Broadcasting Networks, or any organization that consolidates such 
entities when such members are acting in their official capacities.'';
        (2) in section 305 (22 U.S.C. 6204)--
            (A) in subsection (a)--
                (i) by striking ``Board'' each place it appears and 
            inserting ``Chief Executive Officer'';
                (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``direct and'' 
            before ``supervise'';
                (iii) in paragraph (5)--

                    (I) by inserting ``and cooperative agreements'' 
                after ``grants''; and
                    (II) by striking ``in accordance with sections 308 
                and 309'' and inserting ``in furtherance of the 
                purposes of this Act and on behalf of other agencies, 
                accordingly'';

                (iv) in paragraph (6)--

                    (I) by striking ``International Broadcasting 
                Bureau'' and inserting ``Board''; and
                    (II) by striking ``subject to the limitations in 
                sections 308 and 309 and'';

                (v) in paragraph (10)--

                    (I) by inserting ``, rent, or lease'' after 
                ``procure''; and
                    (II) by striking ``personal property'' and 
                inserting ``property for journalism, media, production, 
                and broadcasting, and related support services, 
                notwithstanding any other provision of law relating to 
                such acquisition, rental, or lease, and under the same 
                terms and conditions as authorized under section 501(b) 
                of the United States Information and Educational 
                Exchange Act of 1948 (22 U.S.C. 1461(b)), and for 
                multiyear contracts and leases for periods of up to 20 
                years subject to the requirements of subsections (b) 
                through (f) of section 3903 of title 41, United States 
                Code'';

                (vi) in paragraph (11)--

                    (I) by striking ``staff'';
                    (II) by striking ``as the Board'' and inserting 
                ``as the Chief Executive Officer''; and
                    (III) by striking ``subject'' and inserting ``which 
                shall not be subject'';

                (vii) in paragraph (13)--

                    (I) by striking ``Bureau'' and inserting ``Board''; 
                and
                    (II) by striking ``Board has taken'' and inserting 
                ``Chief Executive Officer has taken'';

                (viii) in paragraph (14)--

                    (I) by inserting ``transmission or'' before 
                ``relay''; and
                    (II) by inserting ``or any other grantee authorized 
                under this Act'' after ``Radio Free Asia'';

                (ix) in paragraph (15)(A), by striking--

                    (I) ``temporary and intermittent''; and
                    (II) ``to the same extent as is authorized by 
                section 3109 of title 5, United States Code,'';

                (x) in paragraph (16), by striking ``Board determines'' 
            and inserting ``Chief Executive Officer determines'';
                (xi) in paragraph (18), by striking ``the Bureau'' and 
            inserting ``the Chief Executive Officer''; and
                (xii) by adding at the end the following new 
            paragraphs:
        ``(20) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, including 
    section 308(a), to condition, if appropriate, any grant or 
    cooperative agreement to RFE/RL, Inc., Radio Free Asia, or the 
    Middle East Broadcasting Networks, or any organization that is 
    established through the consolidation of such entities, on 
    authority to determine membership of their respective boards, and 
    the consolidation of such grantee entities into a single grantee 
    organization under terms and conditions established by the Board.
        ``(21) To redirect or reprogram funds within the scope of any 
    grant or cooperative agreement, or between grantees, as necessary 
    (and not later than 15 days before any such redirection of funds 
    between language services, to notify the Committee on 
    Appropriations and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations and the 
    Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate regarding such 
    redirection), and to condition grants or cooperative agreements, if 
    appropriate, on such grants or cooperative agreements or any 
    similar amendments as authorized under section 308(a), including 
    authority to name and replace the board of any grantee authorized 
    under this Act, including with Federal officials, to meet the 
    purposes of this Act.
        ``(22) To change the name of the Board pursuant to 
    congressional notification 60 days prior to any such change.'';
            (B) by striking subsections (b) and (c); and
            (C) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b); and
            (D) in subsection (b) (as so redesignated)--
                (i) by striking ``and the Board'' and inserting ``and 
            the Chief Executive Officer''; and
                (ii) by striking ``International Broadcasting Bureau'' 
            and inserting ``Board'';
        (3) by amending section 306 (22 U.S.C. 6205) to read as 
    follows:
    ``SEC. 306. ESTABLISHMENT OF THE INTERNATIONAL BROADCASTING 
      ADVISORY BOARD.
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (b)(2), the 
International Broadcasting Advisory Board (referred to in this section 
as the `Advisory Board') shall consist of five members, including the 
Secretary of State, appointed by the President and in accordance with 
subsection (d), to advise the Chief Executive Officer of the 
Broadcasting Board of Governors, as appropriate.
    ``(b) Retention of Existing BBG Board Members.--
        ``(1) In general.--The presidentially appointed and Senate-
    confirmed members of the Board of the Broadcasting Board of 
    Governors who are serving on unexpired terms as of the date of the 
    enactment of this section shall--
            ``(A) constitute the first Advisory Board; and
            ``(B) hold office for the remainder of their original terms 
        of office without reappointment to the Advisory Board.
        ``(2) Effect of additional members.--If, on the date of the 
    enactment of this section, more than five members described in 
    subsection (a) are serving their original terms of office on the 
    Broadcasting Board of Governors, each such member may serve on the 
    Advisory Board for a period equal to the time remaining on each 
    such member's respective term without reappointment.
    ``(c) Terms of Office.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    term of office of each member of the Advisory Board appointed 
    pursuant to subsection (a) shall be three years.
        ``(2) Vacancies.--If a vacancy on the Advisory Board occurs 
    before the expiration of the term of the member who created such 
    vacancy--
            ``(A) the President shall appoint a new member to fill such 
        vacancy in accordance with subsection (d); and
            ``(B) the member appointed pursuant to such subsection 
        shall serve for the remainder of such term.
        ``(3) Service beyond term prohibited.--Members may not serve 
    beyond the term for which they were appointed.
    ``(d) Selection of the Board.--In identifying individuals for 
appointment to the Advisory Board under subsection (a), the President 
shall appoint United States citizens--
        ``(1) who, with the exception of the Secretary of State, are 
    not regular, full-time employees of the United States Government; 
    and
        ``(2) distinguished in the fields of public diplomacy, mass 
    communications, print, broadcast or digital media, or foreign 
    affairs, of whom--
            ``(A) one individual should be appointed from among a list 
        of at least three individuals submitted by the Chair of the 
        Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives;
            ``(B) one individual should be appointed from among a list 
        of at least three individuals submitted by the Ranking Member 
        of the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives;
            ``(C) one individual should be appointed from among a list 
        of at least three individuals submitted by the Chair of the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            ``(D) one individual should be appointed from among a list 
        of at least three individuals submitted by the Ranking Member 
        of the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
    ``(e) Functions of the Board.--The members of the Advisory Board 
shall perform the following advisory functions:
        ``(1) To provide the Chief Executive Officer of the 
    Broadcasting Board of Governors with counsel and recommendations 
    for improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the agency and 
    its programming.
        ``(2) To meet with the Chief Executive Officer at least twice 
    annually and at additional meetings at the request of the Chief 
    Executive Officer.
        ``(3) To report periodically or upon request to the 
    congressional committees specified in subsection (d)(2) regarding 
    its counsel and recommendations for improving the effectiveness and 
    efficiency of the Broadcasting Board of Governors and its 
    programming.
        ``(4) To obtain information from the Chief Executive Officer, 
    as needed, for the purposes of fulfilling the functions described 
    in this subsection.
    ``(f) Compensation.--Members of the Advisory Board, including the 
Secretary of State, may not receive any fee, salary, or remuneration of 
any kind for their service as members.'';
        (4) by striking section 307 (22 U.S.C. 6206);
        (5) in section 308 (22 U.S.C. 6207)--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``of the Broadcasting 
        Board of Governors established under section 304 and no other 
        members'' and inserting ``authorized under section 
        305(a)(20)'';
            (B) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Alternative Grantee.--If the Chief Executive Officer 
determines at any time that RFE/RL, Incorporated is not carrying out 
the functions described in this section in an effective and economical 
manner, the Board may award the grant to carry out such functions to 
another entity.''; and
            (C) in subsection (g)(4)--
                (i) by striking ``International Broadcasting Bureau'' 
            and inserting ``any other grantee of the Board''; and
                (ii) by striking ``by the Board'' and inserting ``by 
            the Chief Executive Officer''; and
            (D) in subsection (i), by striking ``(1) Effective'' and 
        inserting ``Effective'';
        (6) in section 309 (22 U.S.C. 6208)--
            (A) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``Chairman of the 
        Board'' and inserting ``Chief Executive Officer of the Board'';
            (B) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
            (C) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
        subsection:
    ``(g) Alternative Grantee.--If the Chief Executive Officer 
determines at any time that Radio Free Asia is not carrying out the 
functions described in this section in an effective and economical 
manner, the Board may award the grant to carry out such functions to 
another entity.'';
        (7) by inserting after section 309 (22 U.S.C. 6208) the 
    following new sections:
    ``SEC. 310. BROADCAST ENTITIES REPORTING TO CHIEF EXECUTIVE 
      OFFICER.
    ``(a) Consolidation of Grantee Organizations.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Chief Executive Officer, subject to the 
    regular notification procedures of the Committee on Appropriations 
    and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Appropriations and the 
    Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, who is authorized to 
    incorporate a grantee, may condition annual grants to RFE/RL, Inc., 
    Radio Free Asia, and the Middle East Broadcasting Networks on the 
    consolidation of such grantees into a single, consolidated private, 
    non-profit corporation (in accordance with section 501(c)(3) of the 
    Internal Revenue Code and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of 
    such Code), in such a manner and under such terms and conditions as 
    determined by the Chief Executive Officer, which may broadcast and 
    provide news and information to audiences wherever the agency may 
    broadcast, for activities that the Chief Executive Officer 
    determines are consistent with the purposes of this Act, including 
    the terms and conditions of subsections (g)(5), (h), (i), and (j) 
    of section 308, except that the Agency may select any name for such 
    a consolidated grantee.
        ``(2) Special rule.--No State or political subdivision of a 
    State may establish, enforce, or continue in effect any provision 
    of law or legal requirement that is different from, or is in 
    conflict with, any requirement or authority applicable under this 
    Act relating to the consolidation, incorporation, structure, or 
    dissolution of any grantee under this Act.
    ``(b) Mission.--The consolidated grantee established under 
subsection (a) shall--
        ``(1) counter state-sponsored propaganda which undermines the 
    national security or foreign policy interests of the United States 
    and its allies;
        ``(2) provide uncensored local and regional news and analysis 
    to people in societies where a robust, indigenous, independent, and 
    free media does not exist;
        ``(3) help countries improve their indigenous capacity to 
    enhance media professionalism and independence, and develop 
    partnerships with local media outlets, as appropriate; and
        ``(4) promote unrestricted access to uncensored sources of 
    information, especially via the internet, and use all effective and 
    efficient mediums of communication to reach target audiences.
    ``(c) Federal Status.--Nothing in this or any other Act, or any 
action taken pursuant to this or any other Act, may be construed to 
make such a consolidated grantee described in subsection (a) or RFE/RL, 
Inc., Radio Free Asia, or the Middle East Broadcasting Networks or any 
other grantee or entity provided funding by the agency a Federal agency 
or instrumentality. Employees or staff of such grantees or entities may 
not be Federal employees. For purposes of this section and this Act, 
the term `grant' includes agreements under section 6305 of title 31, 
United States Code, and the term `grantee' includes recipients of such 
agreements.
    ``(d) Leadership of Grantee Organizations.--Officers and directors 
of RFE/RL Inc., Radio Free Asia, and the Middle East Broadcasting 
Networks or any organization that is established through the 
consolidation of such entities, or authorized under this Act, shall 
serve at the pleasure of and may be named by the Chief Executive 
Officer of the Board.
    ``(e) Maintenance of the Existing Individual Grantee Brands.--RFE/
RL, Incorporated, Radio Free Asia, and the Middle East Broadcasting 
Networks, Incorporated should remain brand names under which news and 
related programming and content may be disseminated by the consolidated 
grantee. Additional brands may be created as necessary.
``SEC. 310A. INSPECTOR GENERAL AUTHORITIES.
    ``(a) In General.--The Inspector General of the Department of State 
and the Foreign Service shall exercise the same authorities with 
respect to the Broadcasting Board of Governors as the Inspector General 
exercises under the Inspector General Act of 1978 and section 209 of 
the Foreign Service Act of 1980 (22 U.S.C. 3929) with respect to the 
Department of State.
    ``(b) Respect for Journalistic Integrity of Broadcasters.--The 
Inspector General of the Department of State and the Foreign Service 
shall respect the journalistic integrity of all the broadcasters 
covered by this Act and may not evaluate the philosophical or political 
perspectives reflected in the content of broadcasts.
``SEC. 310B. ROLE OF THE SECRETARY OF STATE IN FOREIGN POLICY GUIDANCE.
    ``To assist the Board in carrying out its functions, the Chief 
Executive Officer shall regularly consult with and seek from the 
Secretary of State guidance on foreign policy issues.''; and
        (8) in section 314 (22 U.S.C. 6213)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(4) the terms `Board' and `Chief Executive Officer of the 
    Board' mean the Broadcasting Board of Governors and the position, 
    respectively, authorized in accordance with this Act;''.
SEC. 1289. REDESIGNATION OF SOUTH CHINA SEA INITIATIVE.
    (a) Redesignation as Southeast Asia Maritime Security Initiative.--
Subsection (a)(2) of section 1263 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1073; 10 U.S.C. 
2282 note) is amended by striking ``the `South China Sea Initiative''' 
and inserting ``the `Southeast Asia Maritime Security Initiative'''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
to read as follows:
``SEC. 1263. SOUTHEAST ASIA MARITIME SECURITY INITIATIVE.''.
SEC. 1290. MEASURES AGAINST PERSONS INVOLVED IN ACTIVITIES THAT VIOLATE 
ARMS CONTROL TREATIES OR AGREEMENTS WITH THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Reports on Persons That Violate Treaties or Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the submittal to 
    Congress of an annual report on the status of United States policy 
    and actions with respect to arms control, nonproliferation, and 
    disarmament pursuant to section 403 of the Arms Control and 
    Disarmament Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a), the Secretary of the Treasury 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report, 
    consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, 
    identifying every person with respect to whom there is credible 
    information indicating that--
            (A) the person--
                (i)(I) is an individual who is a citizen, national, or 
            permanent resident of a country described in paragraph (2); 
            or
                (II) is an entity organized under the laws of a country 
            described in paragraph (2); and
                (ii) has engaged in any activity that contributed to or 
            is a significant factor in the President's or the Secretary 
            of State's determination that such country is not in full 
            compliance with its obligations as further described in 
            paragraph (2); or
            (B) the person has provided material support for such non-
        compliance to a person described in subparagraph (A).
        (2) Country described.--A country described in this paragraph 
    is a country (other than a country described in paragraph (3)) that 
    the President or the Secretary of State has determined, in the most 
    recent annual report described in paragraph (1), to be not in full 
    compliance with its obligations undertaken in all arms control, 
    nonproliferation, and disarmament agreements or commitments to 
    which the United States is a participating state.
        (3) Excluded countries.--The following countries are not 
    described for purposes of paragraph (2):
            (A) The United States.
            (B) Any country determined by the Director of National 
        Intelligence to be closely cooperating in intelligence matters 
        with the United States in the period covered by the most recent 
        annual report described in paragraph (1), regardless of the 
        extent of the compliance of such country with the obligations 
        described in paragraph (2) during such period.
    (b) Imposition of Measures.--Except as provided in subsections (d), 
(e), and (f), the President shall impose the measures described in 
subsection (c) with respect to each person identified in a report under 
subsection (a).
    (c) Measures Described.--
        (1) In general.--The measures to be imposed with respect to a 
    person under subsection (b) are the head of any executive agency 
    (as defined in section 133 of title 41, United States Code) may not 
    enter into, renew, or extend a contract for the procurement of 
    goods or services with the person.
        (2) Exception for major routes of supply.--The requirement to 
    impose measures under paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to 
    any contract for the procurement of goods or services along a major 
    route of supply to a zone of active combat or major contingency 
    operation.
        (3) Requirement to revise regulations.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 
        the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement, and the 
        Uniform Administrative Requirements, Cost Principles, and Audit 
        Requirements for Federal Awards shall be revised to implement 
        paragraph (1).
            (B) Certifications.--The revisions to the Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation under subparagraph (A) shall include a 
        requirement for a certification from each person that is a 
        prospective contractor that the person, and any person owned or 
        controlled by the person, does not engage in any activity 
        described in subsection (a)(1)(A)(ii).
            (C) Remedies.--If the head of an executive agency 
        determines that a person has submitted a false certification 
        under subparagraph (B) on or after the date on which the 
        applicable revision of the Federal Acquisition Regulation 
        required by this paragraph becomes effective--
                (i) the head of that executive agency shall terminate a 
            contract with such person or debar or suspend such person 
            from eligibility for Federal contracts for a period of not 
            less than 2 years;
                (ii) any such debarment or suspension shall be subject 
            to the procedures that apply to debarment and suspension 
            under the Federal Acquisition Regulation under subpart 9.4 
            of part 9 of title 48, Code of Federal Regulations; and
                (iii) the Administrator of General Services shall 
            include on the List of Parties Excluded from Federal 
            Procurement and Nonprocurement Programs maintained by the 
            Administrator under part 9 of the Federal Acquisition 
            Regulation each person that is debarred, suspended, or 
            proposed for debarment or suspension by the head of an 
            executive agency on the basis of a determination of a false 
            certification under subparagraph (B).
    (d) Waiver for Lack of Knowing Violation.--
        (1) In general.--The President may waive the application of 
    measures on a case-by-case basis under subsection (b) with respect 
    to a person if the President--
            (A) determines that--
                (i)(I) in the case of a person described in subsection 
            (a)(1)(A), the person did not knowingly engage in any 
            activity described in such subsection;
                (II) in the case of a person described in subsection 
            (a)(1)(B), the person conducted or facilitated a 
            transaction or transactions with, or provided financial 
            services to, a person described in subsection (a)(1)(A) 
            that did not knowingly engage in any activity described in 
            such subsection; and
                (III) in the case of a person described in subsection 
            (a)(1)(A) or (a)(1)(B), the person has terminated the 
            activity for which otherwise covered by such subsection or 
            has provided verifiable assurances that the person will 
            terminate such activity; and
                (ii) the waiver is in the national security interest of 
            the United States; and
            (B) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report on the determination and the reasons for the 
        determination.
        (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1)(B) 
    shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
    classified annex.
    (e) Waiver To Prevent Disclosure of Intelligence Sources and 
Methods.--The President may waive the application of measures on a 
case-by-case basis under subsection (b) with respect to a person if the 
President--
        (1) determines that the waiver is necessary to prevent the 
    disclosure of intelligence sources or methods; and
        (2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    report, consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and 
    methods, on the determination and the reasons for the 
    determination.
    (f) Timing of Imposition.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    President shall immediately impose measures under subsection (b) 
    against a person described in subsection (a)(1) upon the submittal 
    to Congress of the report identifying the person pursuant to 
    subsection (a)(1) unless the President determines and certifies to 
    the appropriate congressional committees that the government of the 
    country concerned has taken specific and effective actions, 
    including, as appropriate, the imposition of appropriate penalties, 
    to terminate the involvement of the person in the activities that 
    resulted in the identification of the person in the report.
        (2) Delay.--
            (A) In general.--The President may delay the imposition of 
        measures against a person for up to 120 days after the date of 
        the submittal to Congress of the report identifying the person 
        pursuant to subsection (a)(1) if the President initiates 
        consultations with the government concerned with respect to the 
        taking of actions described in paragraph (1).
            (B) Additional delay.--The President may delay the 
        imposition of measures for up to an additional 120 days after 
        the delay authorized by subparagraph (A) if the President 
        determines and certifies to the appropriate congressional 
        committees that the government concerned is in the process of 
        taking the actions described in paragraph (1).
        (3) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the submittal to 
    Congress of the report identifying a person pursuant to subsection 
    (a)(1), the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a report on the status of consultations, if any, with 
    the government concerned under this subsection, and the basis for 
    any determination under paragraph (1).
    (g) Termination.--
        (1) Termination through compliance of country with arms control 
    and other agreements.--The measures imposed with respect to a 
    person under subsection (b) shall terminate on the date on which 
    the President submits to Congress a subsequent annual report 
    pursuant to section 403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act 
    that does not contain a determination of the President that the 
    country described in subsection (a)(2) with respect to which the 
    measures were imposed with respect to the person is a country that 
    is not in full compliance with its obligations undertaken in all 
    arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament agreements or 
    commitments to which the United States is a participating state.
        (2) Termination through cessation by person of violating 
    activities.--In addition to termination provided for by paragraph 
    (1), the measures imposed with respect to a person under subsection 
    (b) in connection with a particular activity shall terminate upon a 
    determination of the President that the person has ceased such 
    activity. The termination of measures imposed with respect to a 
    person in connection with a particular activity pursuant to this 
    paragraph shall not result in the termination of any measures 
    imposed with respect to the person in connection with any other 
    activity for which measures were imposed under subsection (b).
    (h) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    House of Representatives; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
SEC. 1291. AGREEMENTS WITH FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS TO DEVELOP LAND-BASED 
WATER RESOURCES IN SUPPORT OF AND IN PREPARATION FOR CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS.
    (a) Agreements Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to enter into 
agreements with the governments of foreign countries to develop land-
based water resources in support of and in preparation for contingency 
operations, including water selection, pumping, purification, storage, 
distribution, cooling, consumption, water reuse, water source 
intelligence, research and development, training, acquisition of water 
support equipment, and water support operations.
    (b) Notification Required.--Not later than 30 days after entering 
into an agreement under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall 
notify the appropriate congressional committees of the existence of the 
agreement and provide a summary of the terms of the agreement.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1292. ENHANCING DEFENSE AND SECURITY COOPERATION WITH INDIA.
    (a) Actions.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and Secretary of 
    State should jointly take such actions as may be necessary to--
            (A) recognize India's status as a major defense partner of 
        the United States;
            (B) designate an individual within the executive branch who 
        has experience in defense acquisition and technology--
                (i) to reinforce and ensure, through interagency policy 
            coordination, the success of the Framework for the United 
            States-India Defense Relationship; and
                (ii) to help resolve remaining issues impeding United 
            States-India defense trade, security cooperation, and co-
            production and co-development opportunities;
            (C) approve and facilitate the transfer of advanced 
        technology, consistent with United States conventional arms 
        transfer policy, to support combined military planning with 
        India's military for missions such as humanitarian assistance 
        and disaster relief, counter piracy, freedom of navigation, and 
        maritime domain awareness missions, and to promote weapons 
        systems interoperability;
            (D) strengthen the effectiveness of the U.S.-India Defense 
        Trade and Technology Initiative and the durability of the 
        Department of Defense's ``India Rapid Reaction Cell'';
            (E) collaborate with the Government of India to develop 
        mutually agreeable mechanisms to verify the security of defense 
        articles, defense services, and related technology, such as 
        appropriate cyber security and end use monitoring arrangements, 
        consistent with United States export control laws and policy;
            (F) promote policies that will encourage the efficient 
        review and authorization of defense sales and exports to India;
            (G) encourage greater government-to-government and 
        commercial military transactions between the United States and 
        India;
            (H) support the development and alignment of India's export 
        control and procurement regimes with those of the United States 
        and multilateral control regimes; and
            (I) continue to enhance defense and security cooperation 
        with India in order to advance United States interests in the 
        South Asia and greater Indo-Asia-Pacific regions.
        (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary of 
    Defense and Secretary of State shall jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees and the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
    House of Representatives a report on how the United States is 
    supporting its defense relationship with India in relation to the 
    actions described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Bilateral Coordination.--To enhance cooperation and encourage 
military-to-military engagement between the United States and India, 
the Secretary of Defense should take appropriate actions to ensure that 
exchanges between senior military officers and senior civilian defense 
officials of the United States Government and the Government of India--
        (1) are at a level appropriate to enhance engagement between 
    the militaries of the two countries for threat analysis, military 
    doctrine, force planning, mutual security interests, logistical 
    support, intelligence, tactics, techniques and procedures, 
    humanitarian assistance, and disaster relief;
        (2) include exchanges of general and flag officers between the 
    two countries;
        (3) enhance cooperative military operations, including maritime 
    security, counter-piracy, counter-terror cooperation, and domain 
    awareness, in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region;
        (4) accelerate the development of combined military planning 
    for missions such as those identified in subsection (a)(1)(C) or in 
    paragraph (1) of this subsection, or other missions in the national 
    security interests of both countries; and
        (5) solicit and recognize actions and efforts by India that 
    would allow the United States to treat India as a major defense 
    partner.
    (c) Assessment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and Secretary of 
    State shall jointly, on an ongoing basis, conduct an assessment of 
    the extent to which India possesses capabilities to support and 
    carry out military operations of mutual interest to the United 
    States and India, including an assessment of the defense export 
    control regulations and policies that need appropriate 
    modification, in recognition of India's capabilities and its status 
    as a major defense partner.
        (2) Use of assessment.--The President shall ensure that the 
    assessment described in paragraph (1) is used, consistent with 
    United States conventional arms transfer policy, to inform the 
    review by the United States of requests to export defense articles, 
    defense services, or related technology to India under the Arms 
    Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2751 et seq.), and to inform any 
    regulatory and policy adjustments that may be appropriate.
SEC. 1293. COORDINATION OF EFFORTS TO DEVELOP FREE TRADE AGREEMENTS 
WITH SUB-SAHARAN AFRICAN COUNTRIES.
    (a) Coordination Between the United States Trade Representative and 
Other Agencies.--The United States Trade Representative shall consult 
and coordinate with other relevant Federal agencies to assist countries 
identified under paragraph (1) of section 110(b) of the Trade 
Preferences Extension Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-27; 129 Stat. 370; 19 
U.S.C. 3705 note) in the most recent report required by that section, 
including through the deployment of resources from those agencies to 
such countries and through trade capacity building, in addressing the 
plan developed under paragraph (3) of that section.
    (b) Coordination of USAID With Free Trade Agreement Policy.--
        (1) Authorization of funds.--Funds made available to the United 
    States Agency for International Development under section 496 of 
    the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2293) after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act may be used, in consultation with the 
    United States Trade Representative--
            (A) to assist eligible countries, including by deploying 
        resources to such countries, in addressing the plan developed 
        under section 116(b) of the African Growth and Opportunity Act 
        (19 U.S.C. 3723(b)); and
            (B) to assist eligible countries in the implementation of 
        the commitments of those countries under agreements with the 
        United States and under the WTO Agreement (as defined in 
        section 2(9) of the Uruguay Round Agreements Act (19 U.S.C. 
        3501(9))) and agreements annexed to the WTO Agreement.
        (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Eligible country.--The term ``eligible country'' means 
        a sub-Saharan African country that receives--
                (i) benefits under the African Growth and Opportunity 
            Act (19 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.); and
                (ii) funding from the United States Agency for 
            International Development.
            (B) Sub-saharan african country.--The term ``sub-Saharan 
        African country'' has the meaning given that term in section 
        107 of the African Growth and Opportunity Act (19 U.S.C. 3706).
SEC. 1294. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT BORDER 
SECURITY OPERATIONS OF CERTAIN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
    (a) Expansion of Authority.--Section 1226 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
1056; 22 U.S.C. 2551 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) by striking ``the Government of Jordan and the 
        Government of Lebanon'' and inserting ``the Government of 
        Egypt, the Government of Jordan, the Government of Lebanon, and 
        the Government of Tunisia'';
            (B) by striking ``efforts of the armed forces'' and 
        inserting ``efforts as follows:
            ``(A) Efforts of the armed forces''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(B) Efforts of the armed forces of Egypt and the armed 
        forces of Tunisia to increase security and sustain increased 
        security along the border of Egypt and the border of Tunisia 
        with Libya, as applicable.''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(4), by striking ``along the border'' and 
    all that follows and inserting ``along the border of the country as 
    specified in subsection (a)(1).''.
    (b) Funds Available for Support.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by striking ``Amounts'' and 
    inserting ``In fiscal year 2016, amounts''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) In any fiscal year after fiscal year 2016, amounts 
    authorized to be appropriated for such fiscal year and available 
    for Operation and Maintenance, Defense-Wide, and the Counter 
    Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant Fund for such fiscal year.''.
    (c) Extension.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2018'' and inserting ``December 31, 2019''.
    (d) Conforming Amendment.--The heading of such section is amended 
to read as follows:
``SEC. 1226. SUPPORT TO CERTAIN GOVERNMENTS FOR BORDER SECURITY 
OPERATIONS.''.
SEC. 1295. MODIFICATION AND CLARIFICATION OF UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ANTI-
TUNNEL COOPERATION AUTHORITY.
    (a) Amount of Support Providable by the United States.--Paragraph 
(4) of section 1279(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1079; 22 U.S.C. 8606 
note) is amended by striking ``$25,000,000'' and inserting 
``$50,000,000''.
    (b) Scope of Requirement for Matching Contribution by Israel.--
Paragraph (3) of such section is amended by inserting before the period 
at the end the following: ``in the calendar year in which the support 
is provided''.
    (c) Use of Certain Amount for RDT&E Activities in the United 
States.--Of the amount contributed by the United States for activities 
under section 1279 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016, not less than 50 percent of such amount shall be used in 
fiscal year 2017 for research, development, test, and evaluation 
activities for purposes of such section in the United States.
SEC. 1296. MAINTENANCE OF PROHIBITION ON PROCUREMENT BY DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE OF PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA-ORIGIN ITEMS THAT MEET THE 
DEFINITION OF GOODS AND SERVICES CONTROLLED AS MUNITIONS ITEMS WHEN 
MOVED TO THE ``600 SERIES'' OF THE COMMERCE CONTROL LIST.
    (a) In General.--Section 1211 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or in the 600 series of 
    the control list of the Export Administration Regulations'' after 
    ``in Arms Regulations''; and
        (2) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(3) The term `600 series of the control list of the Export 
    Administration Regulations' means the 600 series of the Commerce 
    Control List contained in Supplement No. 1 to part 774 of subtitle 
    B of title 15 of the Code of Federal Regulations.''.
    (b) Technical Corrections to ITAR References.--Such section is 
further amended by striking ``Trafficking'' both places it appears and 
inserting ``Traffic''.
SEC. 1297. INTERNATIONAL SALES PROCESS IMPROVEMENTS.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a plan to 
improve the management and use of fees collected on transfer of defense 
articles and services via sale, lease, or grant to international 
customers under programs over which the Defense Security Cooperation 
Agency has administration responsibilities. The plan shall include 
options to use fees more effectively--
        (1) to improve the staffing and processes of the licensing 
    review cycle at the Defense Technology Security Administration and 
    other reviewing authorities; and
        (2) to maintain a cadre of contracting officers and acquisition 
    officials who specialize in foreign military sales contracting.
    (b) Process for Gathering Input.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a process for contractors to provide input, feedback, and 
adjudication of any differences regarding the appropriateness of 
governmental pricing and availability estimates prior to the delivery 
to potential foreign customers of formal responses to Letters of 
Request for Pricing and Availability.
SEC. 1298. EFFORTS TO END MODERN SLAVERY.
    (a) Actions by the Secretary of Defense.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to 
    the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the policies 
    and guidance of the Department of Defense with respect to the 
    education and training on human slavery and the appropriate role of 
    the United States Armed Forces in combatting trafficking in persons 
    that is received by personnel of the Armed Forces, including 
    uniformed personnel and civilians engaged in partnership with 
    foreign nations.
        (2) Elements.--The briefing required under paragraph (1) shall 
    address--
            (A) resources available for Armed Forces personnel who 
        become aware of instances of human slavery or trafficking in 
        persons while deployed overseas; and
            (B) guidance on the requirement to make official reports 
        through the chain of command, the roles and responsibilities of 
        military and civilian officials of the United States Armed 
        Forces and host nations, circumstances in which members of the 
        Armed Forces are authorized to take immediate action to prevent 
        loss of life or serious injury, and the authority to use 
        appropriate force to stop or prevent sexual abuse or 
        exploitation of children.
    (b) Grant Authorization.--The Secretary of State is authorized to 
make a grant or grants of funding to provide support for 
transformational programs and projects that seek to achieve a 
measurable and substantial reduction of the prevalence of modern 
slavery in targeted populations within partner countries (or 
jurisdictions thereof).
    (c) Monitoring and Evaluation.--Any grantee shall--
        (1) develop specific and detailed criteria for the monitoring 
    and evaluation of supported projects;
        (2) implement a system for measuring progress against baseline 
    data that is rigorously designed based on international corporate 
    and nongovernmental best practices;
        (3) ensure that each supported project is regularly and 
    rigorously monitored and evaluated, on a not less than biennial 
    basis, by an independent monitoring and evaluation entity, against 
    the specific and detailed criteria established pursuant to 
    paragraph (1), and that the progress of the project towards its 
    stated goals is measured by such entity against baseline data;
        (4) support the development of a scientifically sound, 
    representative survey methodology for measuring prevalence with 
    reference to existing research and experience, and apply the 
    methodology consistently to determine the baseline prevalence in 
    target populations and outcomes in order to periodically assess 
    progress in reducing prevalence; and
        (5) establish, and revise on a not less than annual basis, 
    specific and detailed criteria for the suspension and termination, 
    as appropriate, of projects supported by the grantee that regularly 
    or consistently fail to meet the criteria required by this section.
    (d) Auditing.--
        (1) In general.--Any grantee shall be subject to the same 
    auditing, recordkeeping, and reporting obligations required under 
    subsections (e), (f), (g), and (i) of section 504 of the National 
    Endowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4413).
        (2) Comptroller general audit authority.--
            (A) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States may evaluate the financial transactions of the grantee 
        as well as the programs or activities the grantee carries out 
        pursuant to this section.
            (B) Access to records.--Any grantee shall provide the 
        Comptroller General, or the Comptroller General's duly 
        authorized representatives, access to such records as the 
        Comptroller General determines necessary to conduct evaluations 
        authorized by this section.
    (e) Annual Report.--Any grant recipient shall submit a report to 
the Secretary of State annually and the Secretary shall transmit it to 
the appropriate congressional committees within 30 days. Such report 
shall include the names of each of the projects or sub-grantees 
receiving such funding pursuant to this section and the amount of 
funding provided for, along with a detailed description of, each such 
project.
    (f) Rule of Construction Regarding Availability of Fiscal Year 2016 
Appropriations.--The enactment of this section is deemed to meet the 
condition of the first proviso of paragraph (2) of section 7060(f) of 
the Department of State, Foreign Operations, and Related Appropriations 
Act, 2016 (division K of Public Law 114-113), and the funds referred to 
in such paragraph shall be made available in accordance with, and for 
the purposes set forth in, such paragraph.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations; Sunset.--
        (1) Authorization of appropriations for fiscal years 2017 
    through 2020.--There is authorized to be appropriated to the 
    Department of State for the purpose of making a grant or grants 
    authorized under this section, for each fiscal year from 2017 
    through 2020, $37,500,000.
        (2) Sunset.--The authorities of subsections (b) through (f) 
    shall expire on September 30, 2020.
    (h) Comptroller General Review of Existing Programs.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2018, and 
    September 30, 2020, the Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall submit to Congress a report on all of the programs conducted 
    by the Department of State, the United States Agency for 
    International Development, the Department of Labor, the Department 
    of Defense, and the Department of the Treasury that address human 
    trafficking and modern slavery, including a detailed analysis of 
    the effectiveness of such programs in limiting human trafficking 
    and modern slavery and specific recommendations on which programs 
    are not effective at reducing the prevalence of human trafficking 
    and modern slavery and how the funding for such programs may be 
    redirected to more effective efforts.
        (2) Consideration of report.--The Comptroller General of the 
    United States shall brief the appropriate congressional committees 
    on the report submitted under paragraph (1). The appropriate 
    congressional committees shall review and consider the reports and 
    shall, as appropriate, consider modifications to authorization 
    levels and programs within the jurisdiction of such committees to 
    address the recommendations made in the report.
    (i) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Armed 
    Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Armed 
    Services, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.
Sec. 1303. Limitation on availability of funds for Cooperative Threat 
          Reduction in People's Republic of China.
SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION FUNDS.
    (a) Fiscal Year 2017 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds Defined.--
In this title, the term ``fiscal year 2017 Cooperative Threat Reduction 
funds'' means the funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table 
in division D for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3711).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in division D for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 2019.
SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Of the $325,604,000 authorized to be appropriated 
to the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2017 in section 301 and 
made available by the funding table in division D for the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 
1321 of the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 
U.S.C. 3711), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes 
specified:
        (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $11,791,000.
        (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $2,942,000.
        (3) For global nuclear security, $16,899,000.
        (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $213,984,000.
        (5) For proliferation prevention, $50,709,000, of which--
            (A) $4,000,000 may be obligated for purposes relating to 
        nuclear nonproliferation assisted or caused by additive 
        manufacture technology (commonly referred to as ``3D 
        printing'');
            (B) $4,000,000 may be obligated for monitoring the 
        ``proliferation pathways'' under the Joint Comprehensive Plan 
        of Action;
            (C) $4,000,000 may be obligated for enhancing law 
        enforcement cooperation and intelligence sharing; and
            (D) $4,000,000 may be obligated for the Proliferation 
        Security Initiative under subtitle B of title XVIII of the 
        Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 
        (50 U.S.C. 2911 et seq.).
        (6) For threat reduction engagement, $2,000,000.
        (7) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
    Administrative Costs, $27,279,000.
    (b) Modifications to Certain Requirements.--The Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.) is 
amended as follows:
        (1) Section 1321(g)(1) (50 U.S.C. 3711(g)(1)) is amended by 
    striking ``15 days'' and inserting ``45 days''.
        (2) Section 1322(b) (50 U.S.C. 3712(b)) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``At the time at which'' and inserting 
        ``Not later than 15 days before the date on which'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (C) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) a discussion of--
            ``(A) whether authorities other than the authority under 
        this section are available to the Secretaries to perform such 
        project or activity to meet the threats or goals identified 
        under subsection (a)(1); and
            ``(B) if such other authorities exist, why the Secretaries 
        were not able to use such authorities for such project or 
        activity.''.
        (3) Section 1323(b)(3) (50 U.S.C. 3713(b)(3)) is amended by 
    striking ``at the time at which'' and inserting ``not later than 
    seven days before the date on which''.
        (4) Section 1324 (50 U.S.C. 3714) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1)(C), by striking ``15 days'' and 
        inserting ``45 days''; and
            (B) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``15 days'' and 
        inserting ``45 days''.
    (c) Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action'' means the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action, signed at Vienna July 14, 2015, by Iran 
and by the People's Republic of China, France, Germany, the Russian 
Federation, the United Kingdom, and the United States, with the High 
Representative of the European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security 
Policy, and all implementing materials and agreements related to the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and transmitted by the President to 
Congress on July 19, 2015, pursuant to section 135(a) of the Atomic 
Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act 
of 2015 (Public Law 114-17; 129 Stat. 201).
SEC. 1303. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR COOPERATIVE THREAT 
REDUCTION IN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
    (a) In General.--The Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3701 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 1334 the following new section:
``SEC. 1335. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR COOPERATIVE THREAT 
REDUCTION ACTIVITIES IN PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF CHINA.
    ``(a) Semiannual Installments.--In carrying out activities under 
the Program in the People's Republic of China, the Secretary of Defense 
shall ensure that Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for such 
activities are obligated or expended in semiannual installments.
    ``(b) Required Reports.--
        ``(1) Additional information.--With respect to carrying out 
    activities under the Program in the People's Republic of China, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees the reports required by section 1321(g) on a semiannual 
    basis by not later than 15 days before any obligation of 
    Cooperative Threat Reduction funds for such activities during the 
    covered semiannual period. In addition to the matters required by 
    such section, each such report shall include, in coordination with 
    the Secretary of State--
            ``(A) whether China has taken material steps to--
                ``(i) disrupt the proliferation activities of Li 
            Fangwei (also known as Karl Lee, or any other alias known 
            by the United States); and
                ``(ii) arrest Li Fangwei pursuant the indictment 
            charged in the United States District Court for the 
            Southern District of New York on April 29, 2014;
            ``(B) whether China has proliferated to any non-nuclear 
        weapons state, or any nuclear weapons state in violation of the 
        Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, any item 
        that contributes to a ballistic missile or nuclear weapons 
        delivery system; and
            ``(C) the number, type, and summary of any demarches 
        between the United States and China with respect to the matters 
        described in subparagraphs (A) and (B).
        ``(2) Additional submissions.--At the same time as the 
    Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense 
    committees the information described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and 
    (C) of paragraph (1) as part of the reports required by section 
    1321(g), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate such information.
        ``(3) Coverage.--With respect to the information described in 
    subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) the first report described in such paragraph that is 
        submitted after the date of the enactment of this section shall 
        cover the preceding 12-month period before the date of such 
        submission; and
            ``(B) each subsequent report shall cover the semiannual 
        period preceding the date of such submission.
        ``(4) Form.--The information described in subparagraphs (A), 
    (B), and (C) of paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified 
    form, but may include a classified annex.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Section 1321(g) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 
3711(g)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the heading, by striking ``Annual requirement'' and 
        inserting ``Reports requirement''; and
            (B) by striking ``that fiscal year'' and inserting ``that 
        fiscal year (or, in accordance with section 1335(b), the 
        semiannual period covered by the report)''; and
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``Paragraph (1)'' and 
    inserting ``Except for Cooperative Threat Reduction funds subject 
    to section 1335, paragraph (1)''.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1403. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1404. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1405. Defense Health Program.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1411. Authority to dispose of certain materials from and to acquire 
          additional materials for the National Defense Stockpile.
Sec. 1412. National Defense Stockpile matters.

              Subtitle C--Chemical Demilitarization Matters

Sec. 1421. National Academies of Sciences study on conventional 
          munitions demilitarization alternative technologies.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1431. Authority for transfer of funds to joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care 
          Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1432. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1402. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2017 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
        (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in 
    accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
    Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
        (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United 
    States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
SEC. 1403. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2017 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1404. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2017 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1405. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of 
eligible beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

SEC. 1411. AUTHORITY TO DISPOSE OF CERTAIN MATERIALS FROM AND TO 
ACQUIRE ADDITIONAL MATERIALS FOR THE NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE.
    (a) Disposal Authority.--Pursuant to section 5(b) of the Strategic 
and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 98d(b)), the 
National Defense Stockpile Manager may dispose of the following 
materials contained in the National Defense Stockpile in the following 
quantities:
        (1) 27 short tons of beryllium.
        (2) 111,149 short tons of chromium, ferroalloy.
        (3) 2,973 short tons of chromium metal.
        (4) 8,380 troy ounces of platinum.
        (5) 275,741 pounds of contained tungsten metal powder.
        (6) 12,433,796 pounds of contained tungsten ores and 
    concentrates.
    (b) Acquisition Authority.--
        (1) Authority.--Using funds available in the National Defense 
    Stockpile Transaction Fund, the National Defense Stockpile Manager 
    may acquire the following materials determined to be strategic and 
    critical materials required to meet the defense, industrial, and 
    essential civilian needs of the United States:
            (A) High modulus and high strength carbon fibers.
            (B) Tantalum.
            (C) Germanium.
            (D) Tungsten rhenium metal.
            (E) Boron carbide powder.
            (F) Europium.
            (G) Silicon carbide fiber.
        (2) Amount of authority.--The National Defense Stockpile 
    Manager may use up to $55,000,0000 in the National Defense 
    Stockpile Transaction Fund for acquisition of the materials 
    specified paragraph (1).
        (3) Fiscal year limitation.--The authority under paragraph (1) 
    is available for purchases during fiscal year 2017 through fiscal 
    year 2021.
SEC. 1412. NATIONAL DEFENSE STOCKPILE MATTERS.
    (a) Materials Constituting the National Defense Stockpile.--Section 
4 of the Strategic and Critical Materials Stock Piling Act (50 U.S.C. 
98c) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``required for'' and 
    inserting ``suitable for transfer or disposal through''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking ``(1)'' and all that follows through 
        ``(2)''; and
            (B) by striking ``this subsection'' and inserting 
        ``subsection (b)''.
    (b) Qualification of Domestic Sources.--Section 15(a) of such Act 
(50 U.S.C. 98h-6(a)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) by qualifying existing domestic facilities and 
    domestically produced strategic and critical materials to meet the 
    requirements of defense and essential civilian industries in times 
    of national emergency when existing domestic sources of supply are 
    either insufficient or vulnerable to single points of failure; and
        ``(4) by contracting with domestic facilities to recycle 
    strategic and critical materials, thereby increasing domestic 
    supplies when such materials would otherwise be insufficient to 
    support defense and essential civilian industries in times of 
    national emergency.''.

             Subtitle C--Chemical Demilitarization Matters

SEC. 1421. NATIONAL ACADEMIES OF SCIENCES STUDY ON CONVENTIONAL 
MUNITIONS DEMILITARIZATION ALTERNATIVE TECHNOLOGIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Army shall enter into an 
arrangement with the Board on Army Science and Technology of the 
National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to conduct a 
study of the conventional munitions demilitarization program of the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The study required pursuant to subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A review of the current conventional munitions 
    demilitarization stockpile, including types of munitions and types 
    of materials contaminated with propellants or energetics, and the 
    disposal technologies used.
        (2) An analysis of disposal, treatment, and reuse technologies, 
    including technologies currently used by the Department and 
    emerging technologies used or being developed by private or other 
    governmental agencies, including a comparison of cost, throughput 
    capacity, personnel safety, and environmental impacts.
        (3) An identification of munitions types for which alternatives 
    to open burning, open detonation, or non-closed loop incineration/
    combustion are not used.
        (4) An identification and evaluation of any barriers to full-
    scale deployment of alternatives to open burning, open detonation, 
    or non-closed loop incineration/combustion, and recommendations to 
    overcome such barriers.
        (5) An evaluation whether the maturation and deployment of 
    governmental or private technologies currently in research and 
    development would enhance the conventional munitions 
    demilitarization capabilities of the Department.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than 18 months after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees the study conducted pursuant to 
subsection (a).

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 1431. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.
    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1405 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $122,400,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).
SEC. 1432. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
HOME.
    There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
          appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.

                      Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1511. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1512. Special transfer authority.

           Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1521. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1522. Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1523. Extension of authority to use Joint Improvised Explosive 
          Device Defeat Fund for training of foreign security forces to 
          defeat improvised explosive devices.
Sec. 1524. Overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 1525. Extension and modification of authorities on Counterterrorism 
          Partnerships Fund.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE AND TREATMENT OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZATIONS OF 
APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2017 to 
provide additional funds--
        (1) for overseas contingency operations being carried out by 
    the Armed Forces; and
        (2) pursuant to sections 1502, 1503, 1504, 1505, and 1507 for 
    expenses, not otherwise provided for, for procurement, research, 
    development, test, and evaluation, operation and maintenance, 
    military personnel, and defense-wide drug interdiction and counter-
    drug activities, as specified in the funding tables in sections 
    4103, 4203, 4303, 4403, and 4503.
    (b) Support of Base Budget Requirements; Treatment.--Funds 
identified in subsection (a)(2) are being authorized to be appropriated 
in support of base budget requirements as requested by the President 
for fiscal year 2017 pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code. The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall 
apportion the funds identified in such subsection to the Department of 
Defense without restriction, limitation, or constraint on the execution 
of such funds in support of base requirements, including any 
restriction, limitation, or constraint imposed by, or described in, the 
document entitled ``Criteria for War/Overseas Contingency Operations 
Funding Requests'' transmitted by the Director to the Department of 
Defense on September 9, 2010, or any successor or related guidance.
SEC. 1502. PROCUREMENT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in--
        (1) the funding table in section 4102; or
        (2) the funding table in section 4103.
SEC. 1503. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in--
        (1) the funding table in section 4202; or
        (2) the funding table in section 4203.
SEC. 1504. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in--
        (1) the funding table in section 4302, or
        (2) the funding table in section 4303.
SEC. 1505. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
military personnel, as specified in--
        (1) the funding table in section 4402; or
        (2) the funding table in section 4403.
SEC. 1506. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1507. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2017 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in--
        (1) the funding table in section 4502; or
        (2) the funding table in section 4503.
SEC. 1508. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2017 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1509. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2017 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1511. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.
    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.
SEC. 1512. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal year 2017 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof).
        (2) Effect of transfer.--Amounts of authorizations transferred 
    under this subsection shall be merged with and be available for the 
    same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
        (3) Limitations.--The total amount of authorizations that the 
    Secretary may transfer under the authority of this subsection may 
    not exceed $3,500,000,000.
        (4) Exception.--In the case of the authorizations of 
    appropriations contained in sections 1502, 1503, 1504, 1505, and 
    1507 that are provided for the purpose specified in section 
    1501(a)(2), the transfer authority provided under section 1001, 
    rather than the transfer authority provided by this subsection, 
    shall apply to any transfer of amounts of such authorizations.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

SEC. 1521. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.
    (a) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and Reporting 
Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2017 shall be subject 
to the conditions contained in subsections (b) through (g) of section 
1513 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
(Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of 
the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 
(Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4424).
    (b) Equipment Disposition.--
        (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph (2), 
    the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is procured 
    using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund authorized 
    under this Act and is intended for transfer to the security forces 
    of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by such security forces.
        (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before accepting 
    any equipment under the authority provided by paragraph (1), the 
    Commander of United States forces in Afghanistan shall make a 
    determination that the equipment was procured for the purpose of 
    meeting requirements of the security forces of Afghanistan, as 
    agreed to by both the Government of Afghanistan and the United 
    States, but is no longer required by such security forces or was 
    damaged before transfer to such security forces.
        (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination under 
    paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of United States 
    forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives to Secretary of 
    Defense acceptance of the equipment. An explanation of each 
    determination, including the basis for the determination and the 
    alternatives considered, shall be included in the relevant 
    quarterly report required under paragraph (5).
        (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
    accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
    treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon notification to 
    the congressional defense committees of such treatment.
        (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--Not later than 
    90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90-
    day period thereafter during which the authority provided by 
    paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report describing the 
    equipment accepted under this subsection, section 1531(d) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
    113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), and section 1532(b) of 
    the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
    Stat. 3612) during the period covered by the report. Each report 
    shall include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the 
    period covered by the report and treated as stocks of the 
    Department and copies of the determinations made under paragraph 
    (2), as required by paragraph (3).
    (c) Plan To Promote Security of Afghan Women.--
        (1) Reporting requirement.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
    concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall include in each report 
    required under section 1225 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
    ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3550)--
            (A) a current assessment of the security of Afghan women 
        and girls, including information regarding efforts to increase 
        the recruitment and retention of women in the Afghan National 
        Security Forces; and
            (B) a current assessment of the implementation of the plans 
        for the recruitment, integration, retention, training, 
        treatment, and provision of appropriate facilities and 
        transportation for women in the Afghan National Security 
        Forces, including the challenges associated with such 
        implementation and the steps being taken to address those 
        challenges.
        (2) Plan required.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall support, to the 
        extent practicable, the efforts of the Government of 
        Afghanistan to promote the security of Afghan women and girls 
        during and after the security transition process through the 
        development and implementation by the Government of Afghanistan 
        of an Afghan-led plan that should include the elements 
        described in this paragraph.
            (B) Training.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State and working with the 
        NATO-led Resolute Support mission, should encourage the 
        Government of Afghanistan to develop--
                (i) measures for the evaluation of the effectiveness of 
            existing training for Afghan National Security Forces on 
            this issue;
                (ii) a plan to increase the number of female security 
            officers specifically trained to address cases of gender-
            based violence, including ensuring the Afghan National 
            Police's Family Response Units have the necessary resources 
            and are available to women across Afghanistan;
                (iii) mechanisms to enhance the capacity for units of 
            National Police's Family Response Units to fulfill their 
            mandate as well as indicators measuring the operational 
            effectiveness of these units;
                (iv) a plan to address the development of 
            accountability mechanisms for Afghanistan National Army and 
            Afghanistan National Police personnel who violate codes of 
            conduct relating to the human rights of women and girls, 
            including female members of the Afghan National Security 
            Forces;
                (v) a plan to address the development of accountability 
            mechanisms for Afghanistan National Army and Afghanistan 
            National Police personnel who violate codes of conduct 
            relating to protecting children from sexual abuse; and
                (vi) a plan to develop training for the Afghanistan 
            National Army and the Afghanistan National Police to 
            increase awareness and responsiveness among Afghanistan 
            National Army and Afghanistan National Police personnel 
            regarding the unique security challenges women confront 
            when serving in those forces.
            (C) Enrollment and treatment.--The Secretary of Defense, 
        with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and in 
        cooperation with the Afghan Ministries of Defense and Interior, 
        shall seek to assist the Government of Afghanistan in including 
        as part of the plan developed under subparagraph (A) the 
        development and implementation of a plan to increase the number 
        of female members of the Afghanistan National Army and the 
        Afghanistan National Police and to promote their equal 
        treatment, including through such steps as providing 
        appropriate equipment, modifying facilities, and ensuring 
        literacy and gender awareness training for recruits.
            (D) Allocation of funds.--
                (i) In general.--Of the funds available to the 
            Department of Defense for the Afghan Security Forces Fund 
            for fiscal year 2017, it is the goal that $25,000,000, but 
            in no event less than $10,000,000, shall be used for--

                    (I) the recruitment, integration, retention, 
                training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National 
                Security Forces; and
                    (II) the recruitment, training, and contracting of 
                female security personnel for future elections.

                (ii) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs 
            and activities may include--

                    (I) efforts to recruit women into the Afghan 
                National Security Forces, including the special 
                operations forces;
                    (II) programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry 
                of Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender 
                Integration and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office 
                of Human Rights, Gender and Child Rights;
                    (III) development and dissemination of gender and 
                human rights educational and training materials and 
                programs within the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the 
                Afghan Ministry of Interior;
                    (IV) efforts to address harassment and violence 
                against women within the Afghan National Security 
                Forces;
                    (V) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
                requirements of women serving in the Afghan National 
                Security Forces, including appropriate equipment for 
                female security and police forces, and transportation 
                for policewomen to their station;
                    (VI) support for Afghanistan National Police Family 
                Response Units; and
                    (VII) security provisions for high-profile female 
                police and army officers.

    (d) Reporting Requirement.--
        (1) Semi-annual reports.--Not later than January 31 and July 31 
    of each year through January 31, 2021, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
    summarizing the details of any obligation or transfer of funds from 
    the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund during the preceding six-
    calendar month period.
        (2) Conforming repeals.--(A) Section 1513 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 
    122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of the Ike Skelton 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
    111-383; 124 Stat. 4424), is further amended by striking subsection 
    (g).
        (B) Section 1517 of the John Warner National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
    Stat. 2442) is amended by striking subsection (f).
SEC. 1522. JOINT IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE DEFEAT FUND.
    (a) Use and Transfer of Funds.--Subsection 1532(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
Stat. 1091) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and inserting 
``fiscal years 2016 and 2017''.
    (b) Extension of Interdiction of Improvised Explosive Device 
Precursor Chemicals Authority.--Subsection (c) of section 1532 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 126 Stat. 2057) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``for fiscal year 2013 and for fiscal year 
        2016,'' and inserting ``for fiscal years 2013, 2016, and 
        2017'';
            (B) by inserting ``with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
        State'' after ``may be available to the Secretary of Defense'';
            (C) by striking ``of the Government of Pakistan'' and 
        inserting ``of foreign governments''; and
            (D) by striking ``from Pakistan to locations in 
        Afghanistan'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``of the Government of 
    Pakistan'' and inserting ``of foreign governments''; and
        (3) in paragraph (4), as most recently amended by section 
    1532(b)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1091), by striking 
    ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
    (c) Notice to Congress.--Paragraph (3) of such subsection is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) Notice to congress.--None of the funds made available 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) may be obligated or expended to supply 
    training, equipment, supplies, or services to a foreign country 
    before the date that is 15 days after the date on which the 
    Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, 
    submits to the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services 
    and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives a notice that contains--
            ``(A) the foreign country for which training, equipment, 
        supplies, or services are proposed to be supplied;
            ``(B) a description of the training, equipment, supplies, 
        and services to be provided using such funds;
            ``(C) a detailed description of the amount of funds 
        proposed to be obligated or expended to supply such training, 
        equipment, supplies or services, including any funds proposed 
        to be obligated or expended to support the participation of 
        another department or agency of the United States and a 
        description of the training, equipment, supplies, or services 
        proposed to be supplied;
            ``(D) an evaluation of the effectiveness of the efforts of 
        the foreign country identified under subparagraph (A) to 
        counter the flow of improvised explosive device precursor 
        chemicals; and
            ``(E) an overall plan for countering the flow of precursor 
        chemicals in the foreign country identified under subparagraph 
        (A).''.
SEC. 1523. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO USE JOINT IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE 
DEVICE DEFEAT FUND FOR TRAINING OF FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES TO DEFEAT 
IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
    Section 1533(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1093) is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2018'' and inserting ``September 30, 2020''.
SEC. 1524. OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 
for the Department of Defense for overseas contingency operations in 
such amounts as may be designated as provided in section 
251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control 
Act of 1985.
SEC. 1525. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITIES ON 
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND.
    (a) Extension.--Section 1534 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3616) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``Amounts authorized to be 
    appropriated for fiscal year 2015 by this title'' and inserting 
    ``Subject to subsection (b), amounts authorized to be appropriated 
    through fiscal year 2017''; and
        (2) in subsection (h), by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Funds Authorized for Fiscal Year 2016.--
Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (h) as subsections 
    (c) through (i), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Limitation on Use of Funds Authorized for Fiscal Year 2016.--
Amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 for the 
Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund may only be used for the purposes 
specified in subsection (a)(2). In the use of such amounts, any 
reference in this section to `subsection (a)' shall be deemed to be a 
reference to `subsection (a)(2)'.''.
    (c) Administration of Fund.--Subsection (e) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (3); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) as paragraphs 
    (3), (4), and (5), respectively.
    (d) Reports.--Subsection (h) of such section, as redesignated by 
subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``and 2017'' and inserting ``2017, and 
        2018''; and
            (B) by striking ``and 2016'' and inserting ``2016, and 
        2017'';
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking ``subsection (d)(5)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (e)(4)''; and
        (3) in paragraph (5), by striking ``subsection (f)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (g)''.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Repeal of provision permitting the use of rocket engines from 
          the Russian Federation for the evolved expendable launch 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 1602. Exception to the prohibition on contracting with Russian 
          suppliers of rocket engines for the evolved expendable launch 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 1603. Rocket propulsion system to replace RD-180.
Sec. 1604. Plan for use of allied launch vehicles.
Sec. 1605. Analysis of alternatives for wide-band communications.
Sec. 1606. Modification of pilot program for acquisition of commercial 
          satellite communication services.
Sec. 1607. Space-based environmental monitoring.
Sec. 1608. Prohibition on use of certain non-allied positioning, 
          navigation, and timing systems.
Sec. 1609. Limitation of availability of funds for the Joint Space 
          Operations Center Mission System.
Sec. 1610. Limitations on availability of funds for the Global 
          Positioning System Next Generation Operational Control System.
Sec. 1611. Availability of funds for certain secure voice conferencing 
          capabilities.
Sec. 1612. Space-based infrared system and advanced extremely high 
          frequency program.
Sec. 1613. Pilot program on commercial weather data.
Sec. 1614. Plans on transfer of acquisition and funding authority of 
          certain weather missions to National Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 1615. Five-year plan for Joint Interagency Combined Space 
          Operations Center.
Sec. 1616. Organization and management of national security space 
          activities of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1617. Review of charter of Operationally Responsive Space Program 
          Office.
Sec. 1618. Backup and complementary positioning, navigation, and timing 
          capabilities of Global Positioning System.
Sec. 1619. Report on use of spacecraft assets of the space-based 
          infrared system wide-field-of-view program.
Sec. 1620. Provision of certain information to Government Accountability 
          Office by National Reconnaissance Office.
Sec. 1621. Cost-benefit analysis of commercial use of excess ballistic 
          missile solid rocket motors.
Sec. 1622. Independent assessment of Global Positioning System Next 
          Generation Operational Control System.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1631. Report on United States Central Command Intelligence Fusion 
          Center.
Sec. 1632. Prohibition on availability of funds for certain relocation 
          activities for NATO Intelligence Fusion Cell.
Sec. 1633. Survey and review of Defense Intelligence Enterprise.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1641. Special emergency procurement authority to facilitate the 
          defense against or recovery from a cyber attack.
Sec. 1642. Limitation on termination of dual-hat arrangement for 
          Commander of the United States Cyber Command.
Sec. 1643. Cyber mission forces matters.
Sec. 1644. Requirement to enter into agreements relating to use of cyber 
          opposition forces.
Sec. 1645. Cyber protection support for Department of Defense personnel 
          in positions highly vulnerable to cyber attack.
Sec. 1646. Limitation on full deployment of joint regional security 
          stacks.
Sec. 1647. Advisory committee on industrial security and industrial base 
          policy.
Sec. 1648. Change in name of National Defense University's Information 
          Resources Management College to College of Information and 
          Cyberspace.
Sec. 1649. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of F-35 aircraft and 
          support systems.
Sec. 1650. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of Department of Defense 
          critical infrastructure.
Sec. 1651. Strategy to incorporate Army reserve component cyber 
          protection teams into Department of Defense cyber mission 
          force.
Sec. 1652. Strategic Plan for the Defense Information Systems Agency.
Sec. 1653. Plan for information security continuous monitoring 
          capability and comply-to-connect policy; limitation on 
          software licensing.
Sec. 1654. Reports on deterrence of adversaries in cyberspace.
Sec. 1655. Sense of Congress on cyber resiliency of the networks and 
          communications systems of the National Guard.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1661. Improvements to Council on Oversight of National Leadership 
          Command, Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 1662. Treatment of certain sensitive information by State and local 
          governments.
Sec. 1663. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
          ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1664. Prohibition on availability of funds for mobile variant of 
          ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
Sec. 1665. Limitation on availability of funds for extension of New 
          START Treaty.
Sec. 1666. Certifications regarding integrated tactical warning and 
          attack assessment mission of the Air Force.
Sec. 1667. Matters relating to intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1668. Requests for forces to meet security requirements for land-
          based nuclear forces.
Sec. 1669. Report on Russian and Chinese political and military 
          leadership survivability, command and control, and continuity 
          of government programs and activities.
Sec. 1670. Review by Comptroller General of the United States of 
          recommendations relating to nuclear enterprise of Department 
          of Defense.
Sec. 1671. Sense of Congress on nuclear deterrence.
Sec. 1672. Sense of Congress on importance of independent nuclear 
          deterrent of United Kingdom.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

Sec. 1681. National missile defense policy.
Sec. 1682. Extensions of prohibitions relating to missile defense 
          information and systems.
Sec. 1683. Non-terrestrial missile defense intercept and defeat 
          capability for the ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1684. Review of the missile defeat policy and strategy of the 
          United States.
Sec. 1685. Maximizing Aegis Ashore capability and developing medium 
          range discrimination radar.
Sec. 1686. Technical authority for integrated air and missile defense 
          activities and programs.
Sec. 1687. Hypersonic defense capability development.
Sec. 1688. Conventional Prompt Global Strike weapons system.
Sec. 1689. Required testing by Missile Defense Agency of ground-based 
          midcourse defense element of ballistic missile defense system.
Sec. 1690. Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system and Israeli 
          cooperative missile defense program codevelopment and 
          coproduction.
Sec. 1691. Limitations on availability of funds for lower tier air and 
          missile defense capability of the Army.
Sec. 1692. Pilot program on loss of unclassified, controlled technical 
          information.
Sec. 1693. Plan for procurement of medium-range discrimination radar to 
          improve homeland missile defense.
Sec. 1694. Review of Missile Defense Agency budget submissions for 
          ground-based midcourse defense and evaluation of alternative 
          ground-based interceptor deployments.
Sec. 1695. Semiannual notifications on missile defense tests and costs.
Sec. 1696. Reports on unfunded priorities of the Missile Defense Agency.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 1697. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
          aircraft.
Sec. 1698. Harmful interference to Department of Defense Global 
          Positioning System.

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. REPEAL OF PROVISION PERMITTING THE USE OF ROCKET ENGINES 
FROM THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION FOR THE EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE 
PROGRAM.
    Section 8048 of the Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2016 
(division C of Public Law 114-113; 129 Stat. 2363) is repealed.
SEC. 1602. EXCEPTION TO THE PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH RUSSIAN 
SUPPLIERS OF ROCKET ENGINES FOR THE EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE 
PROGRAM.
    Section 1608 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3626; 10 U.S.C. 2271 note), as amended by section 
1607 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1100), is further amended by striking 
subsection (c) and inserting the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any of the following:
        ``(1) The placement of orders or the exercise of options under 
    the contract numbered FA8811-13-C-0003 and awarded on December 18, 
    2013.
        ``(2) Contracts that are awarded during the period beginning on 
    the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2017 and ending December 31, 2022, for the 
    procurement of property or services for space launch activities 
    that include the use of a total of 18 rocket engines designed or 
    manufactured in the Russian Federation, in addition to the Russian-
    designed or Russian-manufactured engines to which paragraph (1) 
    applies.''.
SEC. 1603. ROCKET PROPULSION SYSTEM TO REPLACE RD-180.
    Section 1604 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3623; 10 U.S.C. 2273 note), as amended by section 
1606 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 
(Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1099), is further amended by striking 
subsection (d) and inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Use of Funds Under Development Program.--
        ``(1) Development of rocket propulsion system.--The funds 
    described in paragraph (2)--
            ``(A) may be obligated or expended for--
                ``(i) the development of the rocket propulsion system 
            to replace non-allied space launch engines pursuant to 
            subsection (a); and
                ``(ii) the necessary interfaces to, or integration of, 
            the rocket propulsion system with an existing or new launch 
            vehicle; and
            ``(B) except as provided by paragraph (3), may not be 
        obligated or expended to develop or procure a launch vehicle, 
        an upper stage, a strap-on motor, or related infrastructure.
        ``(2) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph 
    are the following:
            ``(A) Funds authorized to be appropriated by the National 
        Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 or otherwise 
        made available for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of 
        Defense for the development of the rocket propulsion system 
        under subsection (a).
            ``(B) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
        the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 or 
        otherwise made available for fiscal years 2015 or 2016 for the 
        Department of Defense for the development of the rocket 
        propulsion system under subsection (a) that are unobligated as 
        of the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017.
        ``(3) Other purposes.--The Secretary may obligate or expend not 
    more than a total of the amount calculated under paragraph (4) of 
    the funds that are authorized to be appropriated by the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 or otherwise made 
    available for fiscal year 2017 for the rocket propulsion system and 
    launch system investment for activities not authorized by paragraph 
    (1)(A), including for developing a launch vehicle, an upper stage, 
    a strap-on motor, or related infrastructure. The Secretary may 
    exceed such limit calculated under paragraph (4) in fiscal year 
    2017 for such purposes if--
            ``(A) the Secretary certifies to the appropriate 
        congressional committees that, as of the date of the 
        certification--
                ``(i) the development of the rocket propulsion system 
            is being carried out pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) in a 
            manner that ensures that the rocket propulsion system will 
            meet each requirement under subsection (a)(2); and
                ``(ii) such obligation or expenditure will not 
            negatively affect the development of the rocket propulsion 
            system, including with respect to meeting such 
            requirements; and
            ``(B) the reprogramming or transfer is carried out in 
        accordance with established procedures for reprogramming or 
        transfers, including with respect to presenting a request for a 
        reprogramming of funds.
        ``(4) Calculation of amounts for other purposes.--In carrying 
    out paragraph (3), the Secretary shall calculate the amount of the 
    funds specified in such paragraph as follows:
            ``(A) If the total amount of funds that are authorized to 
        be appropriated by the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2017 or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
        2017 for the rocket propulsion system and launch system 
        investment is equal to or less than $320,000,000, such amount 
        shall equal 31 percent.
            ``(B) If the total amount of funds that are authorized to 
        be appropriated by the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2017 or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
        2017 for the rocket propulsion system and launch system 
        investment is greater than $320,000,000, such amount shall 
        equal the difference of--
                ``(i) the amount of funds so authorized to be 
            appropriated, minus
                ``(ii) $220,000,000.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
        ``(2) The term `rocket propulsion system' means, with respect 
    to the development authorized by subsection (a), a main booster, 
    first-stage rocket engine or motor. The term does not include a 
    launch vehicle, an upper stage, a strap-on motor, or related 
    infrastructure.''.
SEC. 1604. PLAN FOR USE OF ALLIED LAUNCH VEHICLES.
    (a) Plan.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Director of National Intelligence, shall develop a plan to use allied 
launch vehicles to meet the requirements for achieving the policy 
relating to assured access to space set forth in section 2273 of title 
10, United States Code, in the event that such requirements cannot be 
met, for a limited period, using only launch vehicles of the United 
States.
    (b) Assessments.--In developing the plan required by subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall conduct assessments of the following:
        (1) What satellites of the United States would be appropriate 
    to be launched on an allied launch vehicle.
        (2) The relevant laws, regulations, and policies governing the 
    launch of national security satellites and whether any legislative, 
    regulatory, or policy actions (including with respect to waivers) 
    would be necessary to allow for the launch of a national security 
    satellite on an allied launch vehicle.
        (3) The certification requirements for using allied launch 
    vehicles pursuant to the plan and the estimated cost, schedule, and 
    actions that would be necessary to certify allied launch vehicles.
        (4) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    (c) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the plan required by 
subsection (a) and the assessments required by subsection (b).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``allied launch vehicle'' means a launch vehicle 
    of the government of a country that is an ally of the United 
    States. The term does not include a launch vehicle of the 
    Government of the Russian Federation, the Government of the 
    People's Republic of China, the Government of the Islamic Republic 
    of Iran, or the Government of the Democratic People's Republic of 
    Korea.
        (2) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
        (3) The term ``national security satellite'' means a satellite 
    launched for national security purposes, including such a satellite 
    launched by the Air Force, the Navy, or the National Reconnaissance 
    Office, or any other element of the Department of Defense.
SEC. 1605. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES FOR WIDE-BAND COMMUNICATIONS.
    Section 1611 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1103) is amended by striking 
subsection (b) and inserting the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Scope.--
        ``(1) Study guidance.--In conducting the analysis of 
    alternatives under subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop 
    study guidance that requires such analysis to include the full 
    range of military and commercial satellite communications 
    capabilities, acquisition processes, and service delivery models.
        ``(2) Other considerations.--The Secretary shall ensure that--
            ``(A) any cost assessments of military or commercial 
        satellite communications systems included in the analysis of 
        alternatives conducted under subsection (a) include detailed 
        full life-cycle costs, as applicable, including with respect 
        to--
                ``(i) military personnel, military construction, 
            military infrastructure operation, maintenance costs, and 
            ground and user terminal impacts; and
                ``(ii) any other costs regarding military or commercial 
            satellite communications systems the Secretary determines 
            appropriate; and
            ``(B) such analysis identifies any considerations relating 
        to the use of military versus commercial systems.
    ``(c) Comptroller General Report.--
        ``(1) Submission.--Upon completion of the analysis of 
    alternatives conducted under subsection (a), the Secretary shall 
    submit such analysis to the Comptroller General of the United 
    States.
        ``(2) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date on which 
    the Comptroller General receives the analysis of alternatives under 
    paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report containing--
            ``(A) a review of the analysis; and
            ``(B) an assessment of the types of analyses the Secretary 
        has conducted to understand the costs and benefits of the use 
        of KA-band commercial satellite communications by the 
        Department of Defense.
        ``(3) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (2) shall 
    include the following:
            ``(A) With respect to the review of the analysis of 
        alternatives conducted under subsection (a)--
                ``(i) whether, and to what extent, the Secretary--

                    ``(I) conducted such analysis using best practices;
                    ``(II) fully addressed the concerns of the 
                acquisition, operational, and user communities; and
                    ``(III) complied with subsection (b); and

                ``(ii) a description of how the Secretary identified 
            the requirements and assessed and addressed the cost, 
            schedule, and risks posed for each alternative included in 
            such analysis.
            ``(B) With respect to the assessment under paragraph 
        (2)(B)--
                ``(i) whether the Secretary has evaluated the use of 
            KA-band commercial satellite communications, based on total 
            cost, capabilities, and interoperability with existing or 
            planned terminals; and
                ``(ii) such other matters as the Comptroller General 
            considers appropriate.
    ``(d) Briefings.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2017, and semiannually thereafter until the date on which the analysis 
of alternatives conducted under subsection (a) is completed, the 
Secretary shall provide the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
of Representatives and the Senate (and any other congressional defense 
committee upon request) a briefing on such analysis.''.
SEC. 1606. MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL 
SATELLITE COMMUNICATION SERVICES.
    (a) Implementation of Goals.--Section 1605 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2208 note), as amended by 
section 1612 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1103), is further amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Implementation of Goals.--In developing and carrying out the 
pilot program under subsection (a)(1), by not later than September 30, 
2017, the Secretary shall take actions to begin the implementation of 
each goal specified in subsection (b).''.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the 
headquarters operations of the Air Force Space Command, not more than 
95 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the 
Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a 
plan to demonstrate that the pilot program under section 1605 of the 
Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2208 note) will 
achieve order-of-magnitude improvements in satellite communications 
capability, as required by subsection (b)(5) of such section.
SEC. 1607. SPACE-BASED ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING.
    (a) Roles of DOD and NOAA.--
        (1) Mechanisms.--The Secretary of Defense and the Administrator 
    of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration shall 
    jointly establish mechanisms to collaborate and coordinate in 
    defining the roles and responsibilities of the Department of 
    Defense and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
    to--
            (A) carry out space-based environmental monitoring; and
            (B) plan for future non-governmental space-based 
        environmental monitoring capabilities, as appropriate.
        (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in paragraph (1) may be 
    construed to authorize a joint satellite program of the Department 
    of Defense and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Administrator shall 
jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
the mechanisms established under subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the 
    House of Representatives; and
        (3) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
    the Senate.
SEC. 1608. PROHIBITION ON USE OF CERTAIN NON-ALLIED POSITIONING, 
NAVIGATION, AND TIMING SYSTEMS.
    (a) Prohibition.--During the period beginning not later than 60 
days after the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
September 30, 2018, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
Armed Forces and each element of the Department of Defense do not use a 
non-allied positioning, navigation, and timing system or service 
provided by such a system.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the prohibition in subsection 
(a) if--
        (1) the Secretary determines that the waiver is--
            (A) in the national security interest of the United States; 
        and
            (B) necessary to mitigate exigent operational concerns;
        (2) the Secretary notifies, in writing, the appropriate 
    congressional committees of such waiver; and
        (3) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date of such 
    notification.
    (c) Assessment.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the Director of National Intelligence shall 
jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees an 
assessment of the risks to national security and to the operations and 
plans of the Department of Defense from using a non-allied positioning, 
navigation, and timing system or service provided by such a system. 
Such assessment shall--
        (1) address risks regarding--
            (A) espionage, counterintelligence, and targeting;
            (B) the use of the Global Positioning System by allies and 
        partners of the United States and others; and
            (C) harmful interference to the Global Positioning System; 
        and
        (2) include any other matters the Secretary, the Chairman, and 
    the Director determine appropriate.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``non-allied positioning, navigation, and timing 
    system'' means any of the following systems:
            (A) The Beidou system.
            (B) The Glonass global navigation satellite system.
SEC. 1609. LIMITATION OF AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE JOINT SPACE 
OPERATIONS CENTER MISSION SYSTEM.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for increment 3 of the 
Joint Space Operations Center Mission System may be obligated or 
expended until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force, in 
coordination with the Commander of the United States Strategic Command, 
submits to the congressional defense committees a report on such 
increment, including--
        (1) an acquisition strategy and strategic plan for such 
    increment that includes--
            (A) the space battlement management, communication, and 
        control capabilities, as of the date of the enactment of this 
        Act;
            (B) the plan to develop and perform space battlement 
        management, communication, and control capabilities in the 
        future; and
            (C) the critical elements described in subparagraphs (A) 
        and (B) that will require common software and hardware in other 
        similar space battle management software and systems to promote 
        a common operating environment and reduce acquisition costs and 
        long-term maintenance requirements;
        (2) the warfighter requirements of such increment;
        (3) the funding and schedule for such increment;
        (4) the strategy for use of commercially available 
    capabilities, as appropriate, relating to such increment to rapidly 
    address warfighter requirements, including the market research and 
    evaluation of such commercial capabilities; and
        (5) the relationship of such increment with the other related 
    activities and investments of the Department of Defense.
SEC. 1610. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE GLOBAL 
POSITIONING SYSTEM NEXT GENERATION OPERATIONAL CONTROL SYSTEM.
    (a) Limitation Until Certification.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2017 for the Global Positioning System Next Generation Operational 
Control System (in this section referred to as ``OCX''), not more than 
five percent may be obligated or expended for the current product 
development contract for the OCX, or for any other purpose in 
connection with the OCX, until the date on which the Secretary of 
Defense submits to Congress the certification on the OCX required 
pursuant to section 2433a(b) of title 10, United States Code, as a 
result of the determination not to terminate the procurement of the 
OCX.
    (b) Additional Limitation Until Initial Briefing.--In addition to 
the limitation in subsection (a), of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2017 for the OCX, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended 
for the current product development contract for the OCX, or for any 
other purpose in connection with the OCX, unless--
        (1) the Secretary has submitted to Congress the certification 
    described in subsection (a); and
        (2) not earlier than January 15, 2017, the Secretary provides 
    to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the OCX with 
    respect to--
            (A) the status of the OCX program, including information on 
        the risks, costs, and schedule, and technical information;
            (B) contingency plans and investments, and the status of 
        such plans and investments;
            (C) an assessment of the OCX by the Director of Operational 
        Test and Evaluation; and
            (D) the total program cost that is validated by the 
        Director of Cost Assessment and Program and a five-year budget 
        that is based on an updated and rebaselined program cost.
    (c) Additional Limitation Until Second Briefing.--In addition to 
the limitations in subsection (a) and (b), of the funds authorized to 
be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2017 for the OCX, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended 
for the current product development contract for the OCX, or for any 
other purpose in connection with the OCX, unless--
        (1) the Secretary has submitted to Congress the certification 
    described in subsection (a);
        (2) the Secretary has provided to the congressional defense 
    committees the briefing under subsection (b)(2); and
        (3) not earlier than March 15, 2017, the Secretary provides to 
    the congressional defense committees an update to such briefing.
    (d) Adjustment of Briefing Dates.--The Secretary may provide the 
briefing under subsection (b)(2) or subsection (c)(3), respectively, 
before the date specified by such subsection if the Secretary 
determines that providing such briefing before such date is necessary 
for the national security interests of the United States.
SEC. 1611. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN SECURE VOICE CONFERENCING 
CAPABILITIES.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available by the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) or 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
114-92) or otherwise made available for fiscal years 2015 or 2016 for 
research, development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, and available 
for obligation as of the date of the enactment of this Act, not more 
than $10,200,000 may be used to support the accomplishment by the Air 
Force of integration and associated critical testing and systems 
engineering activities for the Presidential and National Voice 
Conferencing program and the Advanced Extremely High Frequency Extended 
Data Rate, worldwide, secure, survivable voice conferencing capability 
for the President and national leaders, as described in the 
reprogramming action prior approval request submitted by the Under 
Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) to Congress on March 3, 2016.
SEC. 1612. SPACE-BASED INFRARED SYSTEM AND ADVANCED EXTREMELY HIGH 
FREQUENCY PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation on Development and Acquisition of Alternatives.--
        (1) Limitation.--Except as provided by paragraph (4), the 
    Secretary of Defense may not develop or acquire an alternative to 
    the space-based infrared system program of record or develop or 
    acquire an alternative to the advanced extremely high frequency 
    program of record until the date on which the Commander of the 
    United States Strategic Command and the Director of the Space 
    Security and Defense Program, in consultation with the Defense 
    Intelligence Officer for Science and Technology of the Defense 
    Intelligence Agency, jointly submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees the assessments described in paragraph (2) 
    for the respective program.
        (2) Assessment.--The assessments described in this paragraph 
    are--
            (A) an assessment of the resilience and mission assurance 
        of each alternative to the space-based infrared system being 
        considered by the Secretary of the Air Force; and
            (B) an assessment of the resilience and mission assurance 
        of each alternative to the advanced extremely high frequency 
        program being considered by the Secretary of the Air Force.
        (3) Elements.--An assessment described in paragraph (2) shall 
    include, with respect to each alternative to the space-based 
    infrared system program of record and each alternative to the 
    advanced extremely high frequency program of record being 
    considered by the Secretary of the Air Force, the following:
            (A) The requirements for resilience and mission assurance.
            (B) The criteria to measure such resilience and mission 
        assurance.
            (C) How the alternative affects--
                (i) deterrence and full spectrum warfighting;
                (ii) warfighter requirements and relative costs to 
            include ground station and user terminals;
                (iii) the potential order of battle of adversaries; and
                (iv) the required capabilities of the broader space 
            security and defense enterprise.
        (4) Exception.--The limitation in paragraph (1) shall not apply 
    to efforts to examine and develop technology insertion 
    opportunities for the space-based infrared system program of record 
    or the satellite communications programs of record.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) With respect to the submission of the assessment described 
    in subparagraph (A) of subsection (a)(2), the--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) With respect to the submission of the assessment described 
    in subparagraph (B) of subsection (a)(2), the congressional defense 
    committees.
SEC. 1613. PILOT PROGRAM ON COMMERCIAL WEATHER DATA.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a pilot 
program to assess the viability of commercial satellite weather data to 
support requirements of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Duration.--The Secretary may carry out the pilot program under 
subsection (a) for a period not exceeding one year.
    (c) Briefings.--
        (1) Interim briefing.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a 
    briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
    Representatives and the Senate (and to any other congressional 
    defense committee upon request) demonstrating how the Secretary 
    plans to implement the pilot program under subsection (a).
        (2) Final briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the pilot 
    program under subsection (a) is completed, the Secretary shall 
    provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services of the House 
    of Representatives and the Senate (and to any other congressional 
    defense committee upon request) on the utility, cost, and other 
    considerations regarding the purchase of commercial satellite 
    weather data to support the requirements of the Department of 
    Defense.
SEC. 1614. PLANS ON TRANSFER OF ACQUISITION AND FUNDING AUTHORITY OF 
CERTAIN WEATHER MISSIONS TO NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided by subsection (c), of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available 
for fiscal year 2017 for research, development, test, and evaluation, 
Air Force, for the weather satellite follow-on system, not more than 50 
percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the 
Secretary of the Air Force submits to the appropriate congressional 
committees the plan under subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Plans for Transfer of Authority.--
        (1) Air force plan.--Except as provided by subsection (c), the 
    Secretary of the Air Force shall develop a plan for the Air Force 
    to transfer, beginning with fiscal year 2018, the acquisition 
    authority and the funding authority for covered space-based 
    environmental monitoring missions from the Air Force to the 
    National Reconnaissance Office, including a description of the 
    amount of funds that would be necessary to be transferred from the 
    Air Force to the National Reconnaissance Office during fiscal years 
    2018 through 2022 to carry out such plan.
        (2) NRO plan.--
            (A) Except as provided by subsection (c), the Director of 
        the National Reconnaissance Office shall develop a plan for the 
        National Reconnaissance Office to address how to carry out 
        covered space-based environmental monitoring missions. Such 
        plan shall include--
                (I) a description of the related national security 
            requirements for such missions;
                (ii) a description of the appropriate manner to meet 
            such requirements; and
                (iii) the amount of funds that would be necessary to be 
            transferred from the Air Force to the National 
            Reconnaissance Office during fiscal years 2018 through 2022 
            to carry out such plan.
            (B) In developing the plan under subparagraph (A), the 
        Director may conduct pre-acquisition activities, including with 
        respect to requests for information, analyses of alternatives, 
        study contracts, modeling and simulation, and other activities 
        the Director determines necessary to develop such plan.
            (C) Except as provided by subsection (c), the Director 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees such 
        plan by not later than July 1, 2017.
        (3) Independent cost estimate.--The Director of the Cost 
    Assessment Improvement Group of the Office of the Director of 
    National Intelligence, in coordination with the Director of Cost 
    Assessment and Program Evaluation, shall certify to the appropriate 
    congressional committees that the amounts of funds identified under 
    paragraphs (1) and (2)(A)(iii) as being necessary to transfer are 
    appropriate and include funding for positions and personnel to 
    support program office costs.
    (c) Waiver Based on Report and Certification of Air Force 
Acquisition Program.--The Secretary of the Air Force may waive the 
limitation in subsection (a) and the requirement to develop a plan 
under subsection (b)(1), and the Director of the National 
Reconnaissance Office may waive the requirement to develop a plan under 
subsection (b)(2), if the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report by 
not later than July 1, 2017, that contains--
        (1) a certification that the Secretary of the Air Force is 
    carrying out a formal acquisition program that has received 
    Milestone A approval to address the cloud characterization and 
    theater weather imagery requirements of the Department of Defense; 
    and
        (2) an identification of the cost, schedule, requirements, and 
    acquisition strategy of such acquisition program.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives the Select Committee on Intelligence 
        of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``covered space-based environmental monitoring 
    missions'' means the acquisition programs necessary to meet the 
    national security requirements for cloud characterization and 
    theater weather imagery.
        (3) The term ``Milestone A approval'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2366a(d) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1615. FIVE-YEAR PLAN FOR JOINT INTERAGENCY COMBINED SPACE 
OPERATIONS CENTER.
    (a) Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a plan for the Joint Interagency Combined 
Space Operations Center for the five-year period beginning on such date 
of enactment that includes--
        (1) a description of the roles, responsibilities, and objective 
    of the Center;
        (2) an estimate of funding during the period covered by the 
    current future-years defense program under section 221 of title 10, 
    United States Code, needed for the Center that includes a 
    description of contributions from other Federal agencies;
        (3) an estimate of the personnel needed for the Center, listed 
    by military personnel, civilian personnel, and contractor 
    personnel, and the organization or commercial entity such personnel 
    are representing;
        (4) a description of planned activities of the Center;
        (5) a description of planned use of commercial capabilities by 
    the Center, as appropriate;
        (6) a description of how the Center will complement and support 
    the mission of the Joint Space Operations Center; and
        (7) a description of the command and control of the related 
    operations of the Joint Interagency Combined Space Operations 
    Center.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1616. ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT OF NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE 
ACTIVITIES OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) National security space capabilities are a vital element of 
    the national defense of the United States.
        (2) The advantages of the United States in national security 
    space are now threatened to an unprecedented degree by growing and 
    serious counterspace capabilities of potential foreign adversaries, 
    and the space advantages of the United States must be protected.
        (3) The Department of Defense has recognized the threat and has 
    taken initial steps necessary to defend space, however the 
    organization and management may not be strategically postured to 
    fully address this changed domain of operations over the long term.
        (4) The defense of space is currently a priority for the 
    leaders of the Department, however the space mission is managed 
    within competing priorities of each of the Armed Forces.
        (5) Space elements provide critical capabilities to all of the 
    Armed Forces in the joint fight, however the disparate activities 
    throughout the Department have no single leader that is empowered 
    to make decisions affecting the space forces of the Department.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, to 
modernize and fully address the growing threat to the national security 
space advantage of the United States, the Secretary of Defense must 
evaluate the range of options and take further action to strengthen the 
leadership, management, and organization of the national security space 
activities of the Department of Defense, including with respect to--
        (1) unifying, integrating, and de-conflicting activities to 
    provide for stronger prioritization, accountability, coherency, 
    focus, strategy, and integration of the joint space program of the 
    Department;
        (2) streamlining decision-making, limiting unnecessary 
    bureaucracy, and empowering the appropriate level of authority, 
    while enabling effective oversight;
        (3) maintaining the involvement of each of the Armed Forces and 
    adapting the culture and improving the capabilities of the 
    workforce to ensure the workforce has the appropriate training, 
    experience, and tools to accomplish the mission; and
        (4) reviewing authorities and preparing for a conflict that 
    could extend to space.
    (c) Recommendations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Director of the 
Office of Management and Budget shall each separately submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees recommendations to--
        (1) in accordance with subsection (b), strengthen the 
    leadership, management, and organization of the Department of 
    Defense with respect to the national security space activities of 
    the Department; and
        (2) address the findings covered in the report of the 
    Comptroller General of the United States numbered GAO-16-592R 
    regarding space acquisition and oversight of the Department of 
    Defense.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1617. REVIEW OF CHARTER OF OPERATIONALLY RESPONSIVE SPACE PROGRAM 
OFFICE.
    (a) Review.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a review of 
charter of the Operationally Responsive Space Program Office 
established by section 2273a of title 10, United States Code (in this 
section referred to as the ``Office'').
    (b) Elements.--The review under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) A review of the key operationally responsive space needs 
    with respect to the warfighter and with respect to national 
    security.
        (2) How the Office could fit into the broader resilience and 
    space security strategy of the Department of Defense.
        (3) An assessment of the potential of the Office to focus on 
    the reconstitution capabilities with small satellites using low-
    cost launch vehicles and existing infrastructure.
        (4) An assessment of the potential of the Office to leverage 
    existing or planned commercial capabilities.
        (5) A review of the necessary workforce specialties and 
    acquisition authorities of the Office.
        (6) A review of the funding profile of the Office.
        (7) A review of the organizational placement and reporting 
    structure of the Office.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report containing the review under subsection (a), 
including any recommendations for legislative actions based on such 
review.
SEC. 1618. BACKUP AND COMPLEMENTARY POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING 
CAPABILITIES OF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM.
    (a) Study.--
        (1) In general.--The covered Secretaries shall jointly conduct 
    a study to assess and identify the technology-neutral requirements 
    to backup and complement the positioning, navigation, and timing 
    capabilities of the Global Positioning System for national security 
    and critical infrastructure.
        (2) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the covered Secretaries shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report on the study under 
    paragraph (1). Such report shall include--
            (A) with respect to the Department of each covered 
        Secretary, the identification of the respective requirements to 
        backup and complement the positioning, navigation, and timing 
        capabilities of the Global Positioning System for national 
        security and critical infrastructure;
            (B) an analysis of alternatives to meet such requirements, 
        including, at a minimum--
                (i) an analysis of appropriate technology options;
                (ii) an analysis of the viability of a public-private 
            partnership to establish a complementary positioning, 
            navigation, and timing system; and
                (iii) an analysis of the viability of service level 
            agreements to operate a complementary positioning, 
            navigation, and timing system; and
            (C) a plan to meet such requirements that includes--
                (i) for each such Department, the estimated costs, 
            schedule, and system level technical considerations, 
            including end user equipment and integration 
            considerations; and
                (ii) identification of the appropriate resourcing for 
            each such Department in accordance with the respective 
            requirements of the Department, including domestic or 
            international requirements.
    (b) Single Designated Official.--Each covered Secretary shall 
designate a single senior official of the Department of the Secretary 
to act as the primary representative of such Department for purposes of 
conducting the study under subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure, and the 
        Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; 
        and
            (C) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
        of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``covered Secretaries'' means the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Secretary of Transportation, and the Secretary of 
    Homeland Security.
SEC. 1619. REPORT ON USE OF SPACECRAFT ASSETS OF THE SPACE-BASED 
INFRARED SYSTEM WIDE-FIELD-OF-VIEW PROGRAM.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on the advisability and feasibility 
of using available spacecraft assets of the space-based infrared system 
wide-field-of-view program to satisfy other mission requirements of the 
Department of Defense or the intelligence community.
    (b) Matters Covered.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) An evaluation of using the space-based infrared system 
    wide-field-of-view spacecraft bus for other urgent national 
    security space priorities.
        (2) An evaluation of the cost and schedule impact, if any, to 
    the space-based infrared system wide-field-of-view program if the 
    spacecraft bus is used for another purpose.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex if necessary 
to protect the national security interests of the United States.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1620. PROVISION OF CERTAIN INFORMATION TO GOVERNMENT 
ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE BY NATIONAL RECONNAISSANCE OFFICE.
    (a) In General.--The Director of the National Reconnaissance Office 
shall provide to the Comptroller General of the United States, in a 
timely manner, access to the cost, schedule, and performance 
information the Comptroller General requires to conduct assessments, as 
required by any of the appropriate congressional committees, of 
programs of the National Reconnaissance Office.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1621. COST-BENEFIT ANALYSIS OF COMMERCIAL USE OF EXCESS BALLISTIC 
MISSILE SOLID ROCKET MOTORS.
    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct an analysis of the costs and benefits of allowing the use of 
solid rocket motors from missiles described in section 50134(c) of 
title 51, United States Code, for commercial space launch purposes. 
Such analysis shall include an evaluation of the effect, if any, of 
allowing such use on national security, the Department of Defense, the 
solid rocket motor industrial base, the commercial space launch market, 
and any other areas the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    (b) Briefings.--
        (1) Interim briefing.--Not later than March 15, 2017, the 
    Comptroller General shall provide to the appropriate congressional 
    committees an interim briefing on the analysis under subsection 
    (a).
        (2) Final briefing.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall provide to 
    the appropriate congressional committees a final briefing on the 
    analysis under subsection (a).
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means 
    the following:
            (A) The congressional defense committees.
            (B) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Science, Space, and 
        Technology of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1622. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM NEXT 
GENERATION OPERATIONAL CONTROL SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
into an arrangement with a federally funded research and development 
center, or other appropriate independent entity, to assess the 
acquisition strategy of the Air Force for the Global Positioning System 
Next Generation Operational Control System (in this section referred to 
as ``OCX'').
    (b) Elements.--The assessment required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An assessment of the ability of the Air Force to complete 
    blocks zero through two of the OCX operating system on a schedule 
    necessary to transition the OCX to full operation.
        (2) An estimate of the cost of completing blocks zero through 
    two on the schedule described in paragraph (1), taking into 
    account--
            (A) the rate of software defects;
            (B) earned value management; and
            (C) information assurance requirements.
        (3) An assessment of the ability of the Air Force to implement 
    contingency plans for sustaining the Global Positioning System 
    constellation to mitigate the effects of delays to the 
    implementation of the OCX and to alleviate challenges with respect 
    to the operations and checkout of the Global Positioning System III 
    satellites.
        (4) An assessment of any risks to the viability and required 
    availability of the Global Positioning System constellation 
    associated with efforts to complete blocks zero through two as 
    described in paragraph (1) or the contingency plans described in 
    paragraph (3).
        (5) An assessment of whether there are well-defined methods for 
    terminating the OCX program (including an analysis of the ability 
    of alternative systems to satisfy the requirements of the 
    Department of Defense), in the event of the inability of the Air 
    Force to successfully complete blocks zero through two or other 
    requirements for the OCX while ensuring that the Global Positioning 
    System constellation meets requirements for the availability of 
    that System.
        (6) Any other matters the entity conducting the assessment 
    determines appropriate.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the results of the assessment required 
by subsection (a).

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

SEC. 1631. REPORT ON UNITED STATES CENTRAL COMMAND INTELLIGENCE FUSION 
CENTER.
    (a) Report on Procedures.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the 
Commander of the United States Central Command shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report on the steps taken by the 
Commander to formalize and disseminate procedures for establishing, 
staffing, and operating the Intelligence Fusion Center of the United 
States Central Command.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives.
SEC. 1632. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN RELOCATION 
ACTIVITIES FOR NATO INTELLIGENCE FUSION CELL.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for 
operation and maintenance may be obligated or expended for the 
procurement of fit-out supplies and equipment to support the relocation 
of the NATO Intelligence Fusion Cell from Royal Air Force Molesworth, 
United Kingdom, to Royal Air Force Croughton, United Kingdom.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Director of National Intelligence, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees a report on the NATO Intelligence Fusion Cell 
that outlines--
        (1) the current facility and support requirements and 
    associated costs, including any adjustments of such requirements 
    and costs, for the NATO Intelligence Fusion Cell to be located and 
    operationally viable at Royal Air Force Croughton; and
        (2) the operational requirements of, and costs associated with, 
    any operations of the United States collocated with the NATO 
    Intelligence Fusion Cell.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1633. SURVEY AND REVIEW OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE ENTERPRISE.
    (a) Survey and Review.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
    shall--
            (A) review the organization, resources, and processes of 
        the Defense Intelligence Enterprise, including the defense 
        intelligence agencies and intelligence elements of the 
        combatant commands and military departments, to assess the 
        capabilities and capacity of such Enterprise, along with the 
        intelligence community, to meet present and future defense 
        intelligence requirements; and
            (B) conduct a survey of each geographic combatant command 
        to assess--
                (i) the current state of intelligence support to 
            military operations;
                (ii) the prioritization and allocation of intelligence 
            resources within each combatant command; and
                (iii) whether intelligence resources are balanced 
            between support to theater commanders and support to 
            operational commanders.
        (2) Elements.--The review and survey required by paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) A comprehensive assessment of the Defense Intelligence 
        Enterprise and whether such Enterprise--
                (i) is organized and has resources to meet current and 
            future defense intelligence requirements;
                (ii) is balancing resources appropriately between 
            operational and strategic defense intelligence 
            requirements;
                (iii) is responding with sufficient agility to emerging 
            or unexpected requirements; and
                (iv) is sufficiently integrated with combatant 
            commands, subordinate commands, and joint task forces.
            (B) With respect to each geographic combatant command 
        surveyed--
                (i) information on the total intelligence workforce 
            assigned to the combatant command, including civilians, 
            military, and contract personnel;
                (ii) detailed information on the allocation of 
            intelligence resources to meet combatant commander 
            priorities;
                (iii) detailed information on the intelligence 
            priorities of the commander of the combatant command and 
            intelligence resources allocated to each priority; and
                (iv) detailed information on the intelligence 
            resources, including personnel and assets, dedicated to 
            each of the following:

                    (I) Direct support to the combatant commander.
                    (II) Contingency planning.
                    (III) Ongoing operations.
                    (IV) Crisis response.

    (b) Report.--
        (1) Submission.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence a report on the 
    findings of the Chairman with respect to the review and survey 
    required by subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Content.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) a detailed analysis of how each combatant command uses 
        the intelligence resources available to such command; and
            (B) the recommendations of the Chairman, if any, to improve 
        the Defense Intelligence Enterprise to fulfill operational 
        military requirements.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``Defense Intelligence Enterprise'' means the 
    organizations, infrastructure, and measures, including policies, 
    processes, procedures, and products, of the intelligence, 
    counterintelligence, and security components of each of the 
    following:
            (A) The Department of Defense.
            (B) The Joint Staff.
            (C) The combatant commands.
            (D) The military departments.
            (E) Other elements of the Department of Defense that 
        perform national intelligence, defense intelligence, 
        intelligence-related, counterintelligence, or security 
        functions.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

SEC. 1641. SPECIAL EMERGENCY PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY TO FACILITATE THE 
DEFENSE AGAINST OR RECOVERY FROM A CYBER ATTACK.
    Section 1903(a)(2) of title 41, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``cyber,'' before ``nuclear,''.
SEC. 1642. LIMITATION ON TERMINATION OF DUAL-HAT ARRANGEMENT FOR 
COMMANDER OF THE UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND.
    (a) Limitation on Termination of Dual-hat Arrangement.--The 
Secretary of Defense may not terminate the dual-hat arrangement until 
the date on which the Secretary and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff jointly certify to the appropriate committees of Congress that--
        (1) the Secretary and the Chairman carried out the assessment 
    under subsection (b);
        (2) each of the conditions described in paragraph (2)(C) of 
    such subsection has been met; and
        (3) termination of the dual-hat arrangement will not pose risks 
    to the military effectiveness of the United States Cyber Command 
    that are unacceptable to the national security interests of the 
    United States.
    (b) Assessment.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary and the Chairman shall jointly 
    assess the military and intelligence necessity and benefit of the 
    dual-hat arrangement.
        (2) Elements.--The assessment under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following elements:
            (A) An evaluation of the operational dependence of the 
        United States Cyber Command on the National Security Agency.
            (B) An evaluation of the ability of the United States Cyber 
        Command and the National Security Agency to carry out their 
        respective roles and responsibilities independently.
            (C) A determination of whether the following conditions 
        have been met:
                (i) Robust operational infrastructure has been deployed 
            that is sufficient to meet the unique cyber mission needs 
            of the United States Cyber Command and the National 
            Security Agency, respectively.
                (ii) Robust command and control systems and processes 
            have been established for planning, deconflicting, and 
            executing military cyber operations.
                (iii) The tools and weapons used in cyber operations 
            are sufficient for achieving required effects.
                (iv) Capabilities have been established to enable 
            intelligence collection and operational preparation of the 
            environment for cyber operations.
                (v) Capabilities have been established to train cyber 
            operations personnel, test cyber capabilities, and rehearse 
            cyber missions.
                (vi) The cyber mission force has achieved full 
            operational capability.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Dual-hat arrangement.--The term ``dual-hat arrangement'' 
    means the arrangement under which the Commander of the United 
    States Cyber Command also serves as the Director of the National 
    Security Agency.
SEC. 1643. CYBER MISSION FORCES MATTERS.
    (a) Actions Pending Full Implementation of Plan for Cyber Mission 
Force Positions.--Until the Secretary of Defense completes 
implementation of the authority in subsection (a) of section 1599f of 
title 10, United States Code, for United States Cyber Command workforce 
positions in accordance with the implementation plan required by 
subsection (d) of such section, the Secretary shall do each of the 
following:
        (1) Notwithstanding sections 3309 through 3318 of title 5, 
    United States Code, provide for and implement an interagency 
    transfer agreement between excepted service position systems and 
    competitive service position systems in military departments and 
    Defense Agencies concerned to satisfy the requirements for cyber 
    workforce positions from among a mix of employees in the excepted 
    service and the competitive service in such military departments 
    and Defense Agencies.
        (2) Implement in the defense civilian cyber personnel system a 
    classification system commonly known as a ``Rank-in-person'' 
    classification system similar to such classification system used by 
    the National Security Agency as of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act.
        (3) Approve direct hiring authority for cyber workforce 
    positions up to the GG or GS-15 level in accordance with the 
    criteria in section 3304 of title 5, United States Code.
        (4) Notwithstanding section 5333 of title 5, United States 
    Code, authorize officials conducting hiring in the competitive 
    service for cyber workforce positions to set starting salaries at 
    up to a step-five level with no justification and at up to a step-
    ten level with justification that meets published guidelines 
    applicable to the excepted service.
    (b) Other Matters.--The Principal Cyber Advisor, acting through the 
cross-functional team established by section 932(c)(3) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
U.S.C. 2224 note) and in consultation with the Commander of the United 
States Cyber Command, shall supervise--
        (1) the development of training standards for computer network 
    operations tool developers for military, civilian, and contractor 
    personnel supporting the cyber mission forces;
        (2) the rapid enhancement of capacity to train personnel to 
    those standards to meet the needs of the cyber mission forces for 
    tool development; and
        (3) actions necessary to ensure timely completion of personnel 
    security investigations and adjudications of security clearances 
    for tool development personnel.
SEC. 1644. REQUIREMENT TO ENTER INTO AGREEMENTS RELATING TO USE OF 
CYBER OPPOSITION FORCES.
    (a) Requirement for Agreements.--Not later than September 30, 2017, 
the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that each commander of a 
combatant command establishes appropriate agreements with the Secretary 
relating to the use of cyber opposition forces. Each agreement shall 
require the command--
        (1) to support a high state of mission readiness in the command 
    through the use of one or more cyber opposition forces in 
    continuous exercises and other training activities as considered 
    appropriate by the commander of the command; and
        (2) in conducting such exercises and training activities, meet 
    the standard required under subsection (b).
    (b) Joint Standard for Cyber Opposition Forces.--Not later than 
March 31, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a joint training 
and certification standard for use by all cyber opposition forces 
within the Department of Defense.
    (c) Joint Standard for Protection of Control Systems.--Not later 
than June 30, 2017, the Secretary of Defense shall issue a joint 
training and certification standard for the protection of control 
systems for use by all cyber operations forces within the Department of 
Defense. Such standard shall--
        (1) provide for applied training and exercise capabilities; and
        (2) use expertise and capabilities from other departments and 
    agencies of the Federal Government, as appropriate.
    (d) Briefing Required.--Not later than September 30, 2017, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a briefing that 
includes--
        (1) a list of each combatant command that has established an 
    agreement under subsection (a);
        (2) with respect to each such agreement--
            (A) special conditions in the agreement placed on any cyber 
        opposition force used by the command;
            (B) the process for making decisions about deconfliction 
        and risk mitigation of cyber opposition force activities in 
        continuous exercises and training;
            (C) identification of cyber opposition forces trained and 
        certified to operate at the joint standard, as issued under 
        subsection (b);
            (D) identification of the annual exercises that will 
        include participation of the cyber opposition forces; and
            (E) identification of any shortfalls in resources that may 
        prevent annual exercises using cyber opposition forces; and
        (3) any other matters the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate.
SEC. 1645. CYBER PROTECTION SUPPORT FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PERSONNEL 
IN POSITIONS HIGHLY VULNERABLE TO CYBER ATTACK.
    (a) Authority to Provide Cyber Protection Support.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to a determination by the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Secretary may provide cyber protection support for the 
    personal technology devices of the personnel described in paragraph 
    (2).
        (2) At-risk personnel.--The personnel described in this 
    paragraph are personnel of the Department of Defense--
            (A) who the Secretary determines to be highly vulnerable to 
        cyber attacks and hostile information collection activities 
        because of the positions occupied by such personnel in the 
        Department; and
            (B) whose personal technology devices are highly vulnerable 
        to cyber attacks and hostile information collection activities.
    (b) Nature of Cyber Protection Support.--Subject to the 
availability of resources, the cyber protection support provided to 
personnel under subsection (a) may include training, advice, 
assistance, and other services relating to cyber attacks and hostile 
information collection activities.
    (c) Limitation on Support.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
        (1) to encourage personnel of the Department of Defense to use 
    personal technology devices for official business; or
        (2) to authorize cyber protection support for senior Department 
    personnel using personal devices and networks in an official 
    capacity.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
on the provision of cyber protection support under subsection (a). The 
report shall include--
        (1) a description of the methodology used to make the 
    determination under subsection (a)(2); and
        (2) guidance for the use of cyber protection support and 
    tracking of support requests for personnel receiving cyber 
    protection support under subsection (a).
    (e) Personal Technology Devices Defined.--In this section, the term 
``personal technology devices'' means technology devices used by 
Department of Defense personnel outside of the scope of their 
employment with the Department and includes networks to which such 
devices connect.
SEC. 1646. LIMITATION ON FULL DEPLOYMENT OF JOINT REGIONAL SECURITY 
STACKS.
    (a) Limitation.--The Secretary of a military department or the head 
of a Defense Agency may not declare that such department or Defense 
Agency has achieved full operational capability for the deployment of 
joint regional security stacks until the date on which--
        (1) the department or Defense Agency concerned completes 
    operational test and evaluation activities to determine the 
    effectiveness, suitability, and survivability of the joint regional 
    security stacks system of such department or Defense Agency; and
        (2) written certification that such testing and evaluation 
    activities have been completed is provided to the Secretary of such 
    department or the head of such Defense Agency by the appropriate 
    operational test and evaluation organization of such department or 
    Defense Agency.
    (b) Waiver.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of a military department or the 
    head of a Defense Agency may waive the requirements of subsection 
    (a) if a certification described in paragraph (2) is provided to 
    the Secretary of Defense, and signed by--
            (A) the Secretary of the military department or the head of 
        the Defense Agency concerned;
            (B) the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation for the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (C) the Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
        Defense.
        (2) Certification.--A certification described in this 
    subsection is a written certification that--
            (A) the testing and evaluation activities required under 
        subsection (a) are unnecessary, accompanied by an explanation 
        of the reasons such activities are unnecessary;
            (B) the effectiveness, suitability, and survivability of 
        the joint regional security stacks system of the military 
        department or Defense Agency concerned has been demonstrated by 
        methods other than the testing and evaluation activities 
        required under subsection (a), accompanied by supporting data; 
        or
            (C) national security needs justify full deployment of the 
        joint regional security stacks system of the military 
        department or Defense Agency concerned before the test and 
        evaluation activities required under subsection (a) can be 
        completed, accompanied by an explanation of such justification 
        and a risk management plan.
SEC. 1647. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INDUSTRIAL SECURITY AND INDUSTRIAL 
BASE POLICY.
    (a) Advisory Committee.--Not later than April 30, 2017, the 
Secretary of Defense shall establish an advisory committee (referred to 
in this section as the ``Committee'') to review, assess, and make 
recommendations with respect to industrial security and industrial base 
policy.
    (b) Duties.--The Committee shall--
        (1) review and assess--
            (A) the national industrial security program for cleared 
        facilities and the protection of the information and networking 
        systems of cleared defense contractors;
            (B) policies and practices relating to physical security 
        and installation access at installations of the Department of 
        Defense;
            (C) information security and cyber defense policies, 
        practices, and reporting relating to the unclassified 
        information and networking systems of defense contractors;
            (D) policies, practices, regulations, and reporting 
        relating to industrial base issues; and
            (E) any other matters the Secretary determines to be 
        appropriate; and
        (2) make recommendations to the Secretary based on such review 
    and assessment.
    (c) Members.--The Committee shall be composed of 10 members 
appointed by the Secretary of Defense of which five members shall be 
representatives of non-governmental entities and five members shall be 
representatives of departments or agencies of the Federal Government.
    (d) Meetings.--The Committee shall meet not less often than once 
annually until the date on which the Committee terminates under 
subsection (e).
    (e) Termination.--The Committee shall terminate on September 30, 
2022.
SEC. 1648. CHANGE IN NAME OF NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY'S INFORMATION 
RESOURCES MANAGEMENT COLLEGE TO COLLEGE OF INFORMATION AND CYBERSPACE.
    (a) In General.--Section 2165(b)(5) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by striking ``Information Resources Management 
College'' and inserting ``College of Information and Cyberspace''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, document, 
record, or other paper of the United States to the Information 
Resources Management College shall be considered to be a reference to 
the College of Information and Cyberspace.
SEC. 1649. EVALUATION OF CYBER VULNERABILITIES OF F-35 AIRCRAFT AND 
SUPPORT SYSTEMS.
    (a) Evaluation and Report.--
        (1) Evaluation.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete an 
    evaluation of the cyber vulnerabilities of the F-35 aircraft and 
    the support systems of the aircraft under section 1647(a)(1) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 
    114-92; 129 Stat. 1118).
        (2) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the evaluation 
    completed under paragraph (1) that includes--
            (A) the findings of the Secretary with respect to the 
        evaluation;
            (B) identification of any major information assurance 
        deficiencies relating to the F-35 aircraft or the support 
        systems of the aircraft (including the autonomic logistics 
        information system); and
            (C) a cyber vulnerability mitigation strategy for F-35 
        aircraft and the support systems of the aircraft.
        (3) Waiver prohibited.--Notwithstanding section 1647(a)(2) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public 
    Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1118), the Secretary may not waive the 
    requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2).
    (b) Tools and Solutions for Assessing and Mitigating Cyber 
Vulnerabilities.--Section 1647 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1118) is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(d) Tools and Solutions for Assessing and Mitigating Cyber 
Vulnerabilities.--In addition to carrying out the evaluation of cyber 
vulnerabilities of major weapon systems of the Department under this 
section, the Secretary may--
        ``(1) develop tools to improve the detection and evaluation of 
    cyber vulnerabilities;
        ``(2) conduct non-recurring engineering for the design of 
    solutions to mitigate cyber vulnerabilities; and
        ``(3) establish Department-wide information repositories to 
    share findings relating to the evaluation and mitigation of cyber 
    vulnerabilities.''.
SEC. 1650. EVALUATION OF CYBER VULNERABILITIES OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
CRITICAL INFRASTRUCTURE.
    (a) Plan for Evaluation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a plan for the evaluation of the 
    cyber vulnerabilities of the critical infrastructure of the 
    Department of Defense.
        (2) Elements.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) an identification of each of the military installations 
        to be evaluated; and
            (B) an estimate of the cost of the evaluation.
        (3) Priority in evaluation.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall 
    prioritize the evaluation of military installations based on the 
    criticality of the infrastructure supporting such installations, as 
    determined by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff based on an 
    assessment of--
            (A) the Armed Forces stationed at such military 
        installations; and
            (B) threats to such military installations.
        (4) Integration with other efforts.--The plan under paragraph 
    (1) shall build upon other efforts of Department of Defense 
    relating to the identification and mitigation of cyber 
    vulnerabilities of major weapon systems and critical infrastructure 
    of the Department and shall not duplicate such efforts.
    (b) Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary submits the plan under subsection (a), the Secretary, 
    acting through a covered research laboratory, shall initiate a 
    pilot program under which the Secretary shall assess the 
    feasibility and advisability of applying new, innovative 
    methodologies or engineering approaches--
            (A) to improve the defense of control systems against cyber 
        attacks;
            (B) to increase the resilience of military installations 
        against cybersecurity threats;
            (C) to prevent or mitigate the potential for high-
        consequence cyber attacks; and
            (D) to inform future requirements for the development of 
        such control systems.
        (2) Locations.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
    under paragraph (1) at not fewer than two military installations 
    selected by the Secretary from among military installations that 
    support the most critical mission-essential functions of the 
    Department of Defense as identified in the plan under subsection 
    (a).
        (3) Tools.--In carrying out the pilot program under paragraph 
    (1), the Secretary may use tools and solutions developed under 
    subsection (e).
        (4) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2019, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a final report 
    on the pilot program that includes--
            (A) a description of the activities carried out under the 
        pilot program at each military installation concerned;
            (B) an assessment of the value of the methodologies or 
        tools applied during the pilot program in increasing the 
        resilience of military installations against cybersecurity 
        threats;
            (C) recommendations for administrative or legislative 
        actions to improve the ability of the Department to employ 
        methodologies and tools for reducing cyber vulnerabilities in 
        other activities of the Department of Defense; and
            (D) recommendations for including such methodologies or 
        tools as requirements for relevant activities, including 
        technical requirements for systems or military construction 
        projects.
        (5) Termination.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out 
    the pilot program under this subsection shall terminate on 
    September 30, 2019.
    (c) Evaluation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the 
    Secretary shall complete an evaluation of the cyber vulnerabilities 
    of the critical infrastructure of the Department of Defense in 
    accordance with the plan under subsection (a).
        (2) Risk mitigation strategies.--The Secretary shall develop 
    strategies for mitigating the risks of cyber vulnerabilities 
    identified in the course of the evaluation under paragraph (1).
    (d) Status on Progress.--The Secretary shall include in each 
quarterly cyber operations briefing submitted to Congress under section 
484 of title 10, United States Code, a summary of any activities 
carried out as part of--
        (1) the pilot program under subsection (b); or
        (2) the evaluation under subsection (c).
    (e) Tools and Solutions.--The Secretary may--
        (1) develop tools that improve assessments of cyber 
    vulnerabilities of Department of Defense critical infrastructure;
        (2) conduct non-recurring engineering for the design of 
    mitigation solutions for such vulnerabilities; and
        (3) establish Department-wide information repositories to share 
    findings relating to such assessments and to share such mitigation 
    solutions.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Critical infrastructure of the department of defense.--The 
    term ``critical infrastructure of the Department of Defense'' means 
    any asset of the Department of Defense of such extraordinary 
    importance to the functioning of the Department and the operation 
    of the Armed Forces that the incapacitation or destruction of such 
    asset by a cyber attack would have a debilitating effect on the 
    ability of the Department to fulfill its missions.
        (2) Covered research laboratory.--The term ``covered research 
    laboratory'' means--
            (A) a research laboratory of the Department of Defense; or
            (B) a research laboratory of the Department of Energy 
        approved by the Secretary of Energy to carry out the pilot 
        program under subsection (b).
SEC. 1651. STRATEGY TO INCORPORATE ARMY RESERVE COMPONENT CYBER 
PROTECTION TEAMS INTO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CYBER MISSION FORCE.
    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall provide to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a briefing on a strategy for incorporating reserve 
component cyber protection teams into the cyber mission force of the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements of Strategy.--The strategy required by subsection (a) 
shall include, at minimum, the following:
        (1) A timeline for incorporating reserve component cyber 
    protection teams into the cyber mission force of the Department of 
    Defense, including a timeline for the appropriate training of such 
    teams.
        (2) Identification of the specific reserve component cyber 
    protection teams to be incorporated into the cyber mission force of 
    the Department of Defense.
        (3) An assessment of how the incorporation of reserve component 
    cyber protection teams into the cyber mission force of the 
    Department of Defense might be used to enhance readiness through 
    improved individual and collective training capabilities.
        (4) A status report on the progress of the Army in issuing 
    additional guidance that clarifies how reserve component cyber 
    protection teams of the Army National Guard can support State and 
    civil operations in National Guard status under title 32, United 
    States Code.
        (5) Other matters as considered appropriate by the Secretary of 
    the Army.
    (c) Reserve Component Cyber Protection Teams Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``reserve component cyber protection teams'' means 
cyber protection teams of--
        (1) the Army National Guard; and
        (2) the other reserve components of the Army.
SEC. 1652. STRATEGIC PLAN FOR THE DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS AGENCY.
    (a) Strategic Plan Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act and not less often than once every 2 
fiscal years thereafter until September 30, 2022, the Director of the 
Defense Information Systems Agency, in consultation with the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, shall develop 
or update, as appropriate, a strategic plan for the Agency that 
includes--
        (1) a comprehensive review of the requirements and mission of 
    the Agency with respect to research, development, test, and 
    evaluation; and
        (2) an assessment of the adequacy of the activities, 
    facilities, workforce, and resources of the Agency in meeting such 
    requirements and fulfilling such mission.
    (b) Covered Period.--Each strategic plan under subsection (a) shall 
cover the period of five fiscal years beginning with the fiscal year in 
which the plan is developed or updated.
    (c) Elements.--Each strategic plan under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) A statement of the mission of the Defense Information 
    Systems Agency that--
            (A) addresses the critical operations and functions carried 
        out by the Agency; and
            (B) includes an assessment of projected changes to such 
        operations and functions for the period covered by the plan.
        (2) An assessment of the personnel, facilities, and research, 
    development, test, and evaluation requirements of the Department of 
    Defense that are needed to support the operations of the Agency for 
    the period covered by the plan.
        (3) An identification of performance metrics for measuring the 
    successful achievement of objectives for the period covered by the 
    plan.
        (4) An assessment of the programs and plans of the Agency with 
    respect to research, development, test, and evaluation, including 
    the projected resources, personnel, and supporting infrastructure 
    needed to carry out such programs and plans.
        (5) An assessment of the facilities and resources of the Agency 
    that are used for research, development, test, and evaluation 
    activities.
        (6) A description of the plans and business case analyses 
    supporting any significant modifications to the facilities, 
    workforce, and resources of the Agency (including any modifications 
    involving the expansion, divestment, consolidation, or curtailment 
    of activities) that are proposed, projected, or recommended by the 
    Director.
        (7) Any other matters determined to be appropriate by the 
    Director.
SEC. 1653. PLAN FOR INFORMATION SECURITY CONTINUOUS MONITORING 
CAPABILITY AND COMPLY-TO-CONNECT POLICY; LIMITATION ON SOFTWARE 
LICENSING.
    (a) Information Security Monitoring Plan and Policy.--
        (1) Plan and policy.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
    Department of Defense and the Commander of the United States Cyber 
    Command shall jointly develop--
            (A) a plan for a modernized, Department-wide automated 
        information security continuous monitoring capability that 
        includes--
                (i) a proposed information security architecture for 
            the capability;
                (ii) a concept of operations for the capability; and
                (iii) requirements with respect to the functionality 
            and interoperability of the tools, sensors, systems, 
            processes, and other components of the continuous 
            monitoring capability; and
            (B) a comply-to-connect policy that requires systems to 
        automatically comply with the configurations of the networks of 
        the Department as a condition of connecting to such networks.
        (2) Consultation.--In developing the plan and policy under 
    paragraph (1), the Chief Information Officer and the Commander 
    shall consult with the Principal Cyber Advisor to the Secretary of 
    Defense.
        (3) Implementation.--The Chief Information Officer and the 
    Commander shall each issue such directives as they each consider 
    appropriate to ensure compliance with the plan and policy developed 
    under paragraph (1).
        (4) Inclusion in budget materials.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall include funding and program plans relating to the plan and 
    policy under paragraph (1) in the budget materials submitted by the 
    Secretary in support of the budget of the President for fiscal year 
    2019 (as submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
    United States Code).
        (5) Integration with other capabilities.--The Chief Information 
    Officer and the Commander shall ensure that information generated 
    through automated and automation-assisted processes for continuous 
    monitoring, asset management, and comply-to-connect policies and 
    processes shall be accessible and usable in machine-readable form 
    to appropriate cyber protection teams and computer network defense 
    service providers.
        (6) Software license compliance matters.--The plan and policy 
    required by paragraph (1) shall comply with the software license 
    inventory requirements of the plan issued pursuant to section 937 
    of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 
    (Public Law 112-239; 10 U.S.C. 2223 note) and updated pursuant to 
    section 935 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2223 note).
    (b) Limitation on Future Software Licensing.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), none of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
    available for fiscal year 2017 or any fiscal year thereafter for 
    the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended on a 
    contract for a software license with a cost of more than $5,000,000 
    in a fiscal year unless the Department is able, through automated 
    means--
            (A) to count the number of such licenses in use; and
            (B) to determine the security status of each instance of 
        use of the software licensed.
        (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (1) shall apply--
            (A) beginning on January 1, 2018, with respect to any 
        contract entered into by the Secretary of Defense on or after 
        such date for the licensing of software; and
            (B) beginning on January 1, 2020, with respect to any 
        contract entered into by the Secretary for the licensing of 
        software that was in effect on December 31, 2017.
SEC. 1654. REPORTS ON DETERRENCE OF ADVERSARIES IN CYBERSPACE.
    (a) Report of the Secretary of Defense.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
    with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall submit to the 
    President and the congressional defense committees a report on the 
    military and nonmilitary options available to the United States for 
    deterring and responding to imminent threats in cyberspace and 
    malicious cyber activities carried out against the United States by 
    foreign governments and terrorist organizations.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A description of the military and nonmilitary options 
        described in paragraph (1), including citations to relevant 
        provisions of law, regulation, or directives or other policy 
        documents of the Federal Government.
            (B) Descriptions of relevant authorities, rules of 
        engagement, command and control structures, and response plans 
        relating to such options, including--
                (i) authorities that have been delegated by the 
            President to the Secretary of Defense for the conduct of 
            cyber operations;
                (ii) operational authorities delegated by the Secretary 
            to the Commander of the United States Cyber Command for 
            military cyber operations;
                (iii) identification of how the law of war applies to 
            cyber operations of the Department of Defense;
                (iv) an assessment of the effectiveness of each such 
            option; and
                (v) an integrated priorities list for cyber deterrence 
            capabilities of the Department of Defense that identifies, 
            at a minimum, high priority capability needs prioritized by 
            armed force, function, risk areas, and long-term strategic 
            planning issues.
    (b) Report of the President.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the Secretary of Defense submits the report under subsection 
    (a), the President shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report describing the types of actions carried out in 
    cyberspace against the United States that may warrant a military 
    response.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) Discussion of the types of actions carried out in 
        cyberspace that may warrant a military response or operation.
            (B) A description of the role of the military in responding 
        to acts of aggression in cyberspace against the United States.
            (C) A description of the circumstances required for a 
        military response to a cyber attack against the United States.
            (D) A plan for articulating a declaratory policy on the use 
        of cyber weapons by the United States.
SEC. 1655. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CYBER RESILIENCY OF THE NETWORKS AND 
COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS OF THE NATIONAL GUARD.
    It is the sense of Congress that, to the greatest extent 
practicable, the National Guard should continuously seek ways to 
improve, expand, and provide resources for its communications and 
networking systems to enhance the performance and resilience of such 
systems in the face of cyber attacks, disruptions, and other threats.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1661. IMPROVEMENTS TO COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF NATIONAL LEADERSHIP 
COMMAND, CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
    (a) Responsibilities.--Subsection (d) of section 171a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period the 
    following: ``, and including with respect to the integrated 
    tactical warning and attack assessment systems, processes, and 
    enablers, and continuity of the governmental functions of the 
    Department of Defense''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)(C), by inserting before the period the 
    following: ``(including space system architectures and associated 
    user terminals and ground segments)''.
    (b) Ensuring Capabilities.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (i) as subsection (k); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (h) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(i) Reports on Space Architecture Development.--(1) Not less than 
90 days before each of the dates on which a system described in 
paragraph (2) achieves Milestone A or Milestone B approval, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisitions, Technology, and Logistics shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report prepared by the 
Council detailing the implications of any changes to the architecture 
of such a system with respect to the systems, capabilities, and 
programs covered under subsection (d).
    ``(2) A system described in this paragraph is any of the following:
        ``(A) Advanced extremely high frequency satellites.
        ``(B) The space-based infrared system.
        ``(C) The integrated tactical warning and attack assessment 
    system and its command and control system.
        ``(D) The enhanced polar system.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the terms `Milestone A approval' and 
`Milestone B approval' have the meanings given such terms in section 
2366(e) of this title.
    ``(j) Notification of Reduction of Certain Warning Time.--(1) None 
of the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available 
to the Department of Defense for any fiscal year may be used to change 
any command, control, and communications system described in subsection 
(d)(1) in a manner that reduces the warning time provided to the 
national leadership of the United States with respect to a warning of a 
strategic missile attack on the United States unless--
        ``(A) the Secretary of Defense notifies the congressional 
    defense committees of such proposed change and reduction; and
        ``(B) a period of one year elapses following the date of such 
    notification.
    ``(2) Not later than March 1, 2017, and each year thereafter, the 
Council shall determine whether the integrated tactical warning and 
attack assessment system and its command and control system have met 
all warfighter requirements for operational availability, 
survivability, and endurability. If the Council determines that such 
systems have not met such requirements, the Secretary of Defense and 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly submit to the 
congressional defense committees--
        ``(A) an explanation for such negative determination;
        ``(B) a description of the mitigations that are in place or 
    being put in place as a result of such negative determination; and
        ``(C) the plan of the Secretary and the Chairman to ensure that 
    the Council is able to make a positive determination in the 
    following year.''.
    (c) Reporting Requirements.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``At the 
    same time'' and all that follows through ``title 31,'' and 
    inserting the following: ``During the period preceding January 31, 
    2021, at the same time each year that the budget of the President 
    is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, 
    and from time to time after such period at the discretion of the 
    Council,''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) An assessment of the readiness of the command, control, 
    and communications system for the national leadership of the United 
    States and of each layer of the system, as that layer relates to 
    nuclear command, control, and communications.''.
SEC. 1662. TREATMENT OF CERTAIN SENSITIVE INFORMATION BY STATE AND 
LOCAL GOVERNMENTS.
    (a) Special Nuclear Material.--
        (1) In general.--Section 128 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Information that the Secretary prohibits to be disseminated 
pursuant to subsection (a) that is provided to a State or local 
government shall remain under the control of the Department of Defense, 
and a State or local law authorizing or requiring a State or local 
government to disclose such information shall not apply to such 
information.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended by striking ``Physical protection'' and inserting ``Control 
    and physical protection''.
        (3) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 3 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 128 and inserting the following new item:

``128. Control and physical protection of special nuclear material: 
          limitation on dissemination of unclassified information.''.

    (b) Critical Infrastructure Security Information.--Section 130e of 
such title is amended--
        (1) by transferring subsection (c) to the end of such section 
    and redesignating such subsection, as so transferred, as subsection 
    (f); and
        (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(b) Designation of Department of Defense Critical Infrastructure 
Security Information.--In addition to any other authority or 
requirement regarding protection from dissemination of information, the 
Secretary may designate information as being Department of Defense 
critical infrastructure security information, including during the 
course of creating such information, to ensure that such information is 
not disseminated without authorization. Information so designated is 
subject to the determination process under subsection (a) to determine 
whether to exempt such information from disclosure described in such 
subsection.
    ``(c) Information Provided to State and Local Governments.--(1) 
Department of Defense critical infrastructure security information 
covered by a written determination under subsection (a) or designated 
under subsection (b) that is provided to a State or local government 
shall remain under the control of the Department of Defense.
    ``(2)(A) A State or local law authorizing or requiring a State or 
local government to disclose Department of Defense critical 
infrastructure security information that is covered by a written 
determination under subsection (a) shall not apply to such information.
    ``(B) If a person requests pursuant to a State or local law that a 
State or local government disclose information that is designated as 
Department of Defense critical infrastructure security information 
under subsection (b), the State or local government shall provide the 
Secretary an opportunity to carry out the determination process under 
subsection (a) to determine whether to exempt such information from 
disclosure pursuant to subparagraph (A).''.
SEC. 1663. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF INTERCONTINENTAL 
BALLISTIC MISSILE FUZES.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 1502(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2017 by section 101 and available for 
Missile Procurement, Air Force, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4101, $17,095,000 shall be available for the procurement of 
covered parts pursuant to contracts entered into under section 1645(a) 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3651).
    (b) Covered Parts Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
parts'' means commercially available off-the-shelf items as defined in 
section 104 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 1664. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR MOBILE VARIANT OF 
GROUND-BASED STRATEGIC DETERRENT MISSILE.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for any of fiscal years 2017 or 2018 may be 
obligated or expended to retain the option for, or develop, a mobile 
variant of the ground-based strategic deterrent missile.
SEC. 1665. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR EXTENSION OF NEW 
START TREATY.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 or any other 
fiscal year for the Department of Defense may be obligated or expended 
to extend the New START Treaty unless--
        (1) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff submits the 
    report under subsection (b);
        (2) the Director of National Intelligence submits the National 
    Intelligence Estimate under subsection (c)(2); and
        (3) a period of 120 days elapses following the submission of 
    both the report and the National Intelligence Estimate.
    (b) Report.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees a report detailing the 
following:
        (1) The impacts on the nuclear forces and force planning of the 
    United States with respect to a State Party to the New START Treaty 
    developing a capability to conduct a rapid reload of its ballistic 
    missiles.
        (2) Whether any State Party to the New START Treaty has 
    significantly increased its upload capability with non-deployed 
    nuclear warheads and the degree to which such developments impact 
    crisis stability and the nuclear forces, force planning, use 
    concepts, and deterrent strategy of the United States.
        (3) The extent to which non-treaty-limited nuclear or strategic 
    conventional systems pose a threat to the United States or the 
    allies of the United States.
        (4) The extent to which violations of arms control treaty and 
    agreement obligations pose a risk to the national security of the 
    United States and the allies of the United States, including the 
    perpetuation of violations ongoing as of the date of the enactment 
    of this Act, as well as potential further violations.
        (5) The extent to which--
            (A) the ``escalate-to-deescalate'' nuclear use doctrine of 
        the Russian Federation is deterred under the current nuclear 
        force structure, weapons capabilities, and declaratory policy 
        of the United States; and
            (B) deterring the implementation of such a doctrine has 
        been integrated into the war plans of the United States.
        (6) The status of the nuclear weapons, nuclear weapons 
    infrastructure, and nuclear command and control modernization 
    activities of the United States, and the impact such status has on 
    plans to--
            (A) implement the reduction of the nuclear weapons of the 
        United States; or
            (B) further reduce the numbers and types of such weapons.
        (7) Whether, and if so, the reasons that, the New START Treaty, 
    and the extension of the treaty as of the date of the report, is in 
    the national security interests of the United States.
    (c) National Intelligence Estimate.--
        (1) Production.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
    produce a National Intelligence Estimate on the following:
            (A) The nuclear forces and doctrine of the Russian 
        Federation.
            (B) The nuclear weapons research and production capability 
        of Russia.
            (C) The compliance of Russia with respect to arms control 
        obligations (including treaties, agreements, and other 
        obligations).
            (D) The doctrine of Russia with respect to targeting 
        adversary critical infrastructure and the relationship between 
        such doctrine and other Russian war planning, including, at a 
        minimum, ``escalate-to-deescalate'' concepts.
        (2) Submission.--The Director of National Intelligence shall 
    submit, consistent with the protection of sources and methods, to 
    the appropriate congressional committees the National Intelligence 
    Estimate produced under paragraph (1).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate;
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate; and
            (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``New START Treaty'' means the Treaty between the 
    United States of America and the Russian Federation on Measures for 
    the Further Reduction and Limitation of Strategic Offensive Arms, 
    signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into force on February 5, 
    2011.
SEC. 1666. CERTIFICATIONS REGARDING INTEGRATED TACTICAL WARNING AND 
ATTACK ASSESSMENT MISSION OF THE AIR FORCE.
    (a) Annual Certification.--Not later than March 31, 2017, and each 
year thereafter through 2020, the Commander of the United States 
Strategic Command shall certify to the Secretary of Defense and the 
congressional defense committees that--
        (1) the Air Force is appropriately organized, staffed, trained, 
    and equipped to carry out the portions of the integrated tactical 
    warning and attack assessment mission assigned to the Air Force 
    that are survivable and endurable; and
        (2) the programs and plans of the Air Force for sustaining, 
    modernizing, training, and exercising capabilities relating to such 
    mission are sufficient to ensure the success of the mission.
    (b) Inability to Certify.--If the Commander does not make a 
certification under subsection (a) by March 31 of any year in which a 
certification is required under such subsection, the Secretary of the 
Air Force shall take immediate actions to consolidate all terrestrial 
and aerial components of the integrated tactical warning and attack 
assessment system of the Air Force that are survivable and endurable 
under the major command of the Air Force commanded by the single 
general officer that is responsible for all aspects of the Air Force 
nuclear mission, as described by Air Force Program Action Directive 
D16-01 dated August 2, 2016.
    (c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to affect any responsibilities and authorities relating to the 
integrated tactical warning and attack assessment system in effect on 
the date of the enactment of this Act pursuant to the Agreement Between 
the Government of the United States of America and the Government of 
Canada on the North American Aerospace Defense Command and the terms of 
reference for the North American Aerospace Defense Command.
SEC. 1667. MATTERS RELATING TO INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILES.
    (a) Prohibition.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), none of 
    the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
    made available for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of Defense 
    shall be obligated or expended for--
            (A) reducing, or preparing to reduce, the responsiveness or 
        alert level of the intercontinental ballistic missiles of the 
        United States; or
            (B) reducing, or preparing to reduce, the quantity of 
        deployed intercontinental ballistic missiles of the United 
        States to a number less than 400.
        (2) Exception.--The prohibition in paragraph (1) shall not 
    apply to any of the following activities:
            (A) The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental 
        ballistic missiles.
            (B) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
        intercontinental ballistic missiles.
            (C) Reduction in the number of deployed intercontinental 
        ballistic missiles that are carried out in compliance with--
                (i) the limitations of the New START Treaty (as defined 
            in section 494(a)(2)(D) of title 10, United States Code); 
            and
                (ii) section 1644 of the Carl Levin an Howard P. 
            ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
            Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3651; 10 
            U.S.C. 494 note).
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force and the 
    Chairman of the Nuclear Weapons Council shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report regarding efforts to 
    carry out section 1057 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 495 note).
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following with respect to the period of the expected lifespan of 
    the Minuteman III system:
            (A) The number of nuclear warheads required to support the 
        capability to redeploy multiple independently retargetable 
        reentry vehicles across the full intercontinental ballistic 
        missile fleet.
            (B) The current and planned (through 2030) readiness state 
        of nuclear warheads intended to support the capability to 
        redeploy multiple independently retargetable reentry vehicles 
        across the full intercontinental ballistic missile fleet, 
        including which portion of the active or inactive stockpile 
        such warheads are classified within.
            (C) The current and planned (through 2030) reserve of 
        components or subsystems required to redeploy multiple 
        independently retargetable reentry vehicles across the full 
        intercontinental ballistic missile fleet, including the plans 
        or industrial capability and capacity to produce more such 
        components or subsystems, if needed.
            (D) The current and planned (through 2030) time required to 
        commence redeployment of multiple independently retargetable 
        reentry vehicles across the intercontinental ballistic missile 
        fleet, including the time required to finish deployment across 
        the full fleet.
            (E) The estimated cost of maintaining the capability and 
        warheads required to redeploy multiple independently 
        retargetable reentry vehicles across the full intercontinental 
        ballistic missile fleet.
SEC. 1668. REQUESTS FOR FORCES TO MEET SECURITY REQUIREMENTS FOR LAND-
BASED NUCLEAR FORCES.
    (a) Expedited Decision for Securing Land-based Missile Fields.--To 
mitigate any risk posed to the nuclear forces of the United States by 
the failure to replace the UH-1N helicopter, the Secretary of Defense 
shall, in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff--
        (1) decide if the land-based missile fields using UH-1N 
    helicopters meet security requirements and if there are any 
    shortfalls or gaps in meeting such requirements;
        (2) not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, submit to Congress a report on the decision relating to a 
    request for forces required by paragraph (1); and
        (3) if the Chairman determines the implementation of the 
    decision to be warranted to mitigate any risk posed to the nuclear 
    forces of the United States--
            (A) not later than 60 days after such date of enactment, 
        implement that decision; or
            (B) if the Secretary cannot implement that decision during 
        the period specified in subparagraph (A), not later than 45 
        days after such date of enactment, submit to Congress a report 
        that includes a proposal for the date by which the Secretary 
        can implement that decision and a plan to carry out that 
        proposal.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the travel and 
representational expenses of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, not more than 75 percent may be 
obligated or expended until the date on which the Under Secretary 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that there is a 
acquisition process in place to ensure that a UH-1N replacement 
aircraft is under contract in fiscal year 2018.
SEC. 1669. REPORT ON RUSSIAN AND CHINESE POLITICAL AND MILITARY 
LEADERSHIP SURVIVABILITY, COMMAND AND CONTROL, AND CONTINUITY OF 
GOVERNMENT PROGRAMS AND ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Report.--Not later than January 15, 2017, the Director of 
National Intelligence shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees, consistent with the protection of sources and methods, a 
report on the leadership survivability, command and control, and 
continuity of government programs and activities with respect to the 
People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation, respectively. 
The report shall include the following:
        (1) The goals and objectives of such programs and activities of 
    each respective country.
        (2) An assessment of how such programs and activities fit into 
    the political and military doctrine and strategy of each respective 
    country.
        (3) An assessment of the size and scope of such activities, 
    including the location and description of above-ground and 
    underground facilities important to the political and military 
    leadership survivability, command and control, and continuity of 
    government programs and activities of each respective country.
        (4) An identification of which facilities various senior 
    political and military leaders of each respective country are 
    expected to operate out of during crisis and wartime.
        (5) A technical assessment of the political and military means 
    and methods for command and control in wartime of each respective 
    country.
        (6) An identification of key officials and organizations of 
    each respective country involved in managing and operating such 
    facilities, programs, and activities, including the command 
    structure for each organization involved in such programs and 
    activities.
        (7) An assessment of how senior leaders of each respective 
    country measure the effectiveness of such programs and activities.
        (8) An estimate of the annual cost of such programs and 
    activities.
        (9) An assessment of the degree of enhanced survivability such 
    programs and activities can be expected to provide in various 
    military scenarios ranging from limited conventional conflict to 
    strategic nuclear employment.
        (10) An assessment of the type and extent of foreign 
    assistance, if any, in such programs and activities.
        (11) An assessment of the status and the effectiveness of the 
    intelligence collection of the United States on such programs and 
    capabilities, and any gaps in such collection.
        (12) Any other matters the Director determines appropriate.
    (b) Council Assessment.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
which the Director submits the report under subsection (a), the Council 
on Oversight of the National Leadership Command, Control, and 
Communications System established by section 171a of title 10, United 
States Code, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
an assessment of how the command, control, and communications systems 
for the national leadership of the People's Republic of China and the 
Russian Federation, respectively, compare to such system of the United 
States.
    (c) STRATCOM.--Together with the assessment submitted under 
subsection (b), the Commander of the United States Strategic Command 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees the views of 
the Commander on the report under subsection (a), including a detailed 
description for how the leadership survivability, command and control, 
and continuity of government programs and activities of the People's 
Republic of China and the Russian Federation, respectively, are 
considered in the plans and options under the responsibility of the 
Commander under the unified command plan.
    (d) Forms.--Each report or assessment submitted under this section 
may be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
annex.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1670. REVIEW BY COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES OF 
RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE OF DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--During each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of the 
following:
        (1) The processes of the Department of Defense for addressing 
    the recommendations of the Department of Defense Internal Nuclear 
    Enterprise Review, the Independent Review of the Department of 
    Defense Nuclear Enterprise, and other recommendations affecting the 
    health of the nuclear enterprise of the Department of Defense 
    identified or tracked by the Nuclear Deterrence Enterprise Review 
    Group, including the process used by the Director of Cost 
    Assessment and Program Evaluation to evaluate the implementation of 
    such recommendations.
        (2) The processes used to implement recommendations from other 
    assessments of the nuclear enterprise of the Department of Defense, 
    including the National Leadership Command Capability and Nuclear 
    Command, Control, and Communications Enterprise Review.
    (b) Briefing.--After conducting each review under subsection (a), 
the Comptroller General shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on the review.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1658 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
1125) is repealed.
SEC. 1671. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON NUCLEAR DETERRENCE.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the nuclear forces of the United States continue to play a 
    fundamental role in deterring aggression against the interests of 
    the United States and the allies of the United States in an 
    increasingly dangerous world in which foreign adversaries, 
    including the Russian Federation, are making explicit nuclear 
    threats against the United States and such allies;
        (2) strong United States nuclear forces assure the allies of 
    the United States that the extended deterrence guarantees of the 
    United States are credible and that the resolve of the United 
    States remains strong even in the face of nuclear provocations, 
    including nuclear coercion and blackmail;
        (3) the prevention of war through effective deterrence requires 
    survivable and flexible nuclear forces that are well exercised and 
    ready to respond to nuclear escalation if necessary;
        (4) possessing a range of capabilities and options to counter 
    nuclear threats assures the allies of the United States and 
    enhances the credibility of United States nuclear deterrence by 
    reinforcing the resolve of the United States in the minds of such 
    allies and potential adversaries;
        (5) the declared policy of the United States with respect to 
    the use of nuclear weapons must be coordinated and communicate 
    clearly that the use of nuclear weapons against the United States 
    or its vital interests would ultimately fail and subject the 
    aggressor to incalculable consequences;
        (6) in support of a strong and credible nuclear deterrent, the 
    United States must--
            (A) maintain a nuclear force with a diverse, flexible range 
        of nuclear yield and delivery modes that are ready, capable, 
        and credible;
            (B) afford the highest priority to the modernization of the 
        nuclear triad, dual-capable aircraft, and related command and 
        control elements; and
            (C) ensure the broadest participation of allies of the 
        United States in nuclear defense planning, training, and 
        exercises to demonstrate the commitment of the United States 
        and such allies and their solidarity against nuclear threats 
        and coercion; and
        (7) with respect to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
    (NATO)--
            (A) NATO has made it clear at the NATO summit in Warsaw, 
        Poland, in July 2018, that--
                (i) ``the fundamental purpose of NATO's nuclear 
            capability is to preserve peace, prevent coercion, and 
            deter aggression''; and
                (ii) ``Nuclear weapons are unique. Any employment of 
            nuclear weapons against NATO would fundamentally alter the 
            nature of a conflict. The circumstances in which NATO might 
            have to use nuclear weapons are extremely remote. If the 
            fundamental security of any of its members were to be 
            threatened however, NATO has the capabilities and resolve 
            to impose costs on an adversary that would be unacceptable 
            and far outweigh the benefits that an adversary could hope 
            to achieve.''; and
            (B) accordingly, effective deterrence requires that NATO 
        conduct realistic nuclear planning and exercises, and modernize 
        the full suite of dual-capable aircraft and associated command 
        and control networks and facilities.
SEC. 1672. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON IMPORTANCE OF INDEPENDENT NUCLEAR 
DETERRENT OF UNITED KINGDOM.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States believes that the independent nuclear 
    deterrent and decision-making of the United Kingdom provides a 
    crucial contribution to international stability, the North Atlantic 
    Treaty Organization alliance, and the national security of the 
    United States;
        (2) nuclear deterrence is and will continue to be the highest 
    priority mission of the Department of Defense and the United States 
    benefits when the closest ally of the United States clearly and 
    unequivocally sets similar priorities;
        (3) the United States sees the nuclear deterrent of the United 
    Kingdom as central to trans-Atlantic security and to the commitment 
    of the United Kingdom to NATO to spend two percent of gross 
    domestic product on defense;
        (4) the commitment of the United Kingdom to maintain a 
    continuous at-sea deterrence posture today and in the future 
    complements the deterrent capabilities of the United States and 
    provides a credible ``second center of decision making'' which 
    ensures potential attackers cannot discount the solidarity of the 
    mutual relationship of the United States and the United Kingdom;
        (5) the United States Navy must execute the Ohio-class 
    replacement submarine program on time and within budget, seeking 
    efficiencies and cost savings wherever possible, to ensure that the 
    program delivers a Common Missile Compartment, the Trident II (D5) 
    Strategic Weapon System, and associated equipment and production 
    capabilities, that support the successful development and 
    deployment of the Dreadnought submarines of the United Kingdom; and
        (6) the close technical collaboration, especially expert mutual 
    scientific peer review, provides valuable resilience and cost 
    effectiveness to the respective deterrence programs of the United 
    States and the United Kingdom.

                  Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs

SEC. 1681. NATIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE POLICY.
    (a) Policy.--It is the policy of the United States to maintain and 
improve an effective, robust layered missile defense system capable of 
defending the territory of the United States, allies, deployed forces, 
and capabilities against the developing and increasingly complex 
ballistic missile threat with funding subject to the annual 
authorization of appropriations and the annual appropriation of funds 
for National Missile Defense.
    (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 2 of the National Missile Defense 
Act of 1999 (Public Law 106-38; 10 U.S.C. 2431 note) is repealed.
SEC. 1682. EXTENSIONS OF PROHIBITIONS RELATING TO MISSILE DEFENSE 
INFORMATION AND SYSTEMS.
    (a) Prohibition on Integration of Certain Missile Defense 
Systems.--
        (1) In general.--Section 130h of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
            (B) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
        subsection (d):
    ``(d) Integration.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
or otherwise made available for any fiscal year for the Department of 
Defense may be obligated or expended to integrate a missile defense 
system of the Russian Federation or a missile defense system of the 
People's Republic of China into any missile defense system of the 
United States.''; and
            (C) by striking the section heading and inserting the 
        following: ``Prohibitions relating to missile defense 
        information and systems''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 130h and inserting the 
    following new item:

``130h. Prohibitions relating to missile defense information and 
          systems.''.

        (3) Conforming repeals.--Sections 1672 and 1673 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 
    129 Stat. 1130) are repealed.
    (b) Extension of Sunset.--Section 130h(e) of title 10, United 
States Code, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(e) Sunset.--The prohibitions in subsections (a), (b), and (d) 
shall expire on January 1, 2019.''.
SEC. 1683. NON-TERRESTRIAL MISSILE DEFENSE INTERCEPT AND DEFEAT 
CAPABILITY FOR THE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    Section 1685 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1142) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(2), by inserting before the semicolon at 
    the end the following: ``for each fiscal year over the five-fiscal-
    year period beginning with the fiscal year following the fiscal 
    year in which the report is submitted, assuming such potential 
    program of record is technically feasible and could be deployed by 
    December 31, 2027''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Commencement of RDT&E.--Not later than 60 days after the 
submittal of the report required by subsection (c), the Director may 
commence coordination and activities associated with research, 
development, test, and evaluation on the programs described in 
subsection (c)(2).''.
SEC. 1684. REVIEW OF THE MISSILE DEFEAT POLICY AND STRATEGY OF THE 
UNITED STATES.
    (a) New Review.--The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly conduct a new review of the missile 
defeat capability, policy, and strategy of the United States, with 
respect to--
        (1) left- and right-of-launch ballistic missile defense for--
            (A) both regional and homeland purposes; and
            (B) the full range of active, passive, kinetic, and 
        nonkinetic defense measures across the full spectrum of land-, 
        air-, sea-, and space-based platforms;
        (2) the integration of offensive and defensive forces for the 
    defeat of ballistic missiles, including against weapons initially 
    deployed on ballistic missiles, such as hypersonic glide vehicles; 
    and
        (3) cruise missile defense of the homeland.
    (b) Elements.--The review under subsection (a) shall address the 
following:
        (1) The missile defeat policy, strategy, and objectives of the 
    United States in relation to the national security strategy of the 
    United States and the military strategy of the United States.
        (2) The role of deterrence in the missile defeat policy and 
    strategy of the United States.
        (3) The missile defeat posture, capability, and force structure 
    of the United States.
        (4) With respect to both the five- and ten-year periods 
    beginning on the date of the review, the planned and desired end-
    state of the missile defeat programs of the United States, 
    including regarding the integration and interoperability of such 
    programs with the joint forces and the integration and 
    interoperability of such programs with allies, and specific 
    benchmarks, milestones, and key steps required to reach such end-
    states.
        (5) The process for determining requirements, force structure, 
    and inventory objectives for missile defeat capabilities under such 
    programs, including input from the joint military requirements 
    process.
        (6) The organization, execution, and oversight of acquisition 
    for the missile defeat programs of the United States.
        (7) The roles and responsibilities of the Office of the 
    Secretary of Defense, Defense Agencies, combatant commands, the 
    Joint Chiefs of Staff, the military departments, and the 
    intelligence community in such programs and the process for 
    ensuring accountability of each stakeholder.
        (8) Standards for the military utility, operational 
    effectiveness, suitability, and survivability of the missile defeat 
    systems of the United States.
        (9) The method in which resources for the missile defeat 
    mission are planned, programmed, and budgeted within the Department 
    of Defense.
        (10) The near-term and long-term costs and cost effectiveness 
    of such programs.
        (11) The options for affecting the offense-defense cost curve.
        (12) The role of international cooperation in the missile 
    defeat policy and strategy of the United States and the plans, 
    policies, and requirements for integration and interoperability of 
    missile defeat capability with allies.
        (13) Options for increasing the frequency of the codevelopment 
    of missile defeat capabilities with allies of the United States in 
    the near-term and far-term.
        (14) Declaratory policy governing the employment of missile 
    defeat capabilities and the military options and plans and 
    employment options of such capabilities.
        (15) The role of multi-mission defense and other assets of the 
    United States, including space and terrestrial sensors and plans to 
    achieve multi-mission capability in current, planned, and other 
    future assets and acquisition programs.
        (16) The indications and warning required to meet the missile 
    defeat strategy and objectives of the United States described in 
    paragraph (1) and the key enablers and programs to achieve such 
    indications and warning.
        (17) The impact of the mobility, countermeasures, and denial 
    and deception capabilities of adversaries on the indications and 
    warning described in paragraph (16) and the consequences on the 
    missile defeat capability, objectives, and military options of the 
    United States and the plans of the combatant commanders.
        (18) Any other matters the Secretary determines relevant.
    (c) Reports.--
        (1) Results.--Not later than January 31, 2018, the Secretary 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
    setting forth the results of the review under subsection (a).
        (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
        (3) Annual implementation updates.--During the five-year period 
    beginning on the date of the submission of the report under 
    paragraph (1), the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
    Evaluation shall submit to the Secretary of Defense, the Chairman 
    of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the congressional defense 
    committees annual status updates detailing the progress of the 
    Secretary in implementing the missile defeat strategy of the United 
    States.
        (4) Threat report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the Permanent 
    Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, 
    and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate a report 
    containing an unclassified summary, consistent with the protection 
    of intelligence sources and methods, of--
            (A) as of the date of the report required by this 
        paragraph, the ballistic and cruise missile threat to the 
        United States, deployed forces of the United States, and 
        friends and allies of the United States from short-, medium-, 
        intermediate-, and long-range nuclear and non-nuclear ballistic 
        and cruise missile threats; and
            (B) an assessment of such threat in 2026.
        (5) Declaratory policy, concept of operations, and employment 
    guidelines for left-of-launch capability.--Not later than 120 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
    Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly 
    submit to the congressional defense committees the following:
            (A) The unclassified declaratory policy of the United 
        States regarding the use of the left-of-launch capability of 
        the United States against potential targets.
            (B) Both the classified and unclassified concept of 
        operations for the use of such capability across and between 
        the combatant commands.
            (C) Both the classified and unclassified employment 
        strategy, plans, and options for such capability.
    (d) Notification.--
        (1) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
    year 2017 or fiscal year 2018 for the Secretary of Defense may be 
    obligated or expended to change the non-standard acquisition 
    processes and responsibilities described in paragraph (2) until--
            (A) the Secretary notifies the congressional defense 
        committees of such proposed change; and
            (B) a period of 180 days has elapsed following the date of 
        such notification.
        (2) Non-standard acquisition processes and responsibilities 
    described.--The non-standard acquisition processes and 
    responsibilities described in this paragraph are such processes and 
    responsibilities described in--
            (A) the memorandum of the Secretary of Defense titled 
        ``Missile Defense Program Direction'' signed on January 2, 
        2002; and
            (B) Department of Defense Directive 5134.09, as in effect 
        on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Designation Required.--
        (1) Authority.--Not later than March 31, 2018, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall designate a military department or Defense Agency 
    with acquisition authority with respect to--
            (A) the capability to defend the homeland from cruise 
        missiles; and
            (B) left-of-launch ballistic missile defeat capability.
        (2) Discretion.--The Secretary may designate a single military 
    department or Defense Agency with the acquisition authority 
    described in paragraph (1) or designate a separate military 
    department or Defense Agency for each function specified in such 
    paragraph.
        (3) Validation.--In making a designation under paragraph (1), 
    the Secretary shall include a description of the manner in which 
    the military requirements for such capabilities will be validated.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Defense Agency'' has the meaning given that term 
    in section 101(a)(11) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``intelligence community'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 1685. MAXIMIZING AEGIS ASHORE CAPABILITY AND DEVELOPING MEDIUM 
RANGE DISCRIMINATION RADAR.
    (a) Anti-air Warfare Capability of Aegis Ashore Sites.--
        (1) Authorization.--Using funds authorized to be appropriated 
    by sections 101 and 201 of this Act or otherwise made available for 
    fiscal year 2017 for procurement and research, development, test, 
    and evaluation, the Secretary of Defense shall continue the 
    development, procurement, and deployment of anti-air warfare 
    capabilities at each Aegis Ashore site in Romania and Poland.
        (2) Long-lead components.--Of the funds specified in paragraph 
    (1), not more than $25,000,000 may be obligated or expended for the 
    procurement of long-lead components to provide the anti-air warfare 
    capabilities described in such paragraph.
        (3) Reprogramming and transfers.--Any reprogramming or transfer 
    made to carry out paragraph (1) shall be carried out in accordance 
    with established procedures for reprogramming or transfers.
    (b) Aegis Ashore Capability Evaluation.--Not later than 120 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly submit to 
the congressional defense committees an evaluation of the ballistic 
missile and air threat against the continental United States and the 
efficacy (including with respect to cost, ideal and optimal deployment 
locations, and potential deployment schedule) of deploying one or more 
Aegis Ashore sites and Aegis Ashore components for the ballistic and 
cruise missile defense of the continental United States.
    (c) Aegis Ashore Site and Medium Range Discrimination Radar on the 
Pacific Missile Range Facility.--
        (1) Limitation.--During fiscal year 2017, the Secretary of 
    Defense may not reduce the manning levels or test capability, as 
    such levels and capability existed on January 1, 2015, of the Aegis 
    Ashore site at the Pacific Missile Range Facility in Hawaii, 
    including by putting such site into a ``cold'' or ``stand by'' 
    status.
        (2) Environmental impact statement.--
            (A) Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall 
        notify the congressional defense committees on whether the 
        preferred alternative for fielding a medium range ballistic 
        missile defense sensor for the defense of Hawaii identified by 
        the report under section 1689(b)(2) of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 
        Stat. 1144) would require an update to the environmental impact 
        statement required for constructing the Aegis Ashore site at 
        the Pacific Missile Range Facility.
            (B) In carrying out the preferred alternative for fielding 
        a medium range ballistic missile defense sensor for the defense 
        of Hawaii, if the Director determines that an updated 
        environmental impact statement, a new environmental impact 
        statement, or another action is required or recommended 
        pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
        U.S.C. et seq.), the Director shall commence such action by not 
        later than 60 days after the date on which the Director makes 
        the notification under subparagraph (A).
        (3) Evaluation.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of 
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly submit to the congressional 
    defense committees an evaluation of the ballistic missile and air 
    threat against Hawaii (including with respect to threats to the 
    Armed Forces and installations located in Hawaii) and the efficacy 
    (including with respect to cost and potential alternatives) of--
            (A) making the Aegis Ashore site at the Pacific Missile 
        Range Facility operational;
            (B) deploying the preferred alternative for fielding a 
        medium range ballistic missile defense sensor for the defense 
        of Hawaii described in paragraph (2)(A); and
            (C) any other alternative the Secretary and the Chairman 
        determine appropriate.
    (d) Forms.--The evaluations submitted under subsections (b) and 
(c)(3) shall each be submitted in unclassified form, but may each 
include a classified annex.
SEC. 1686. TECHNICAL AUTHORITY FOR INTEGRATED AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE 
ACTIVITIES AND PROGRAMS.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency is 
    the technical authority of the Department of Defense for integrated 
    air and missile defense activities and programs, including joint 
    engineering and integration efforts for such activities and 
    programs, including with respect to defining and controlling the 
    interfaces of such activities and programs and the allocation of 
    technical requirements for such activities and programs.
        (2) Detailees.--
            (A) In carrying out the technical authority under paragraph 
        (1), the Director may seek to have staff detailed to the 
        Missile Defense Agency from the Joint Functional Component 
        Command for Integrated Missile Defense and the Joint Integrated 
        Air and Missile Defense Organization in a number the Director 
        determines necessary in accordance with subparagraph (B).
            (B) In detailing staff under subparagraph (A) to carry out 
        the technical authority under paragraph (1), the total number 
        of staff, including detailees, of the Missile Defense Agency 
        who carry out such authority may not exceed the number that is 
        twice the number of such staff carrying out such authority as 
        of January 1, 2016.
    (b) Assessments and Plans.--
        (1) Biennial submission.--Not later than January 31, 2017, and 
    biennially thereafter through 2021, the Director shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees an assessment of the state of 
    integration and interoperability of the integrated air and missile 
    defense capabilities of the Department of Defense.
        (2) Elements.--Each assessment under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Identification of any gaps in the integration and 
        interoperability of the integrated air and missile defense 
        capabilities of the Department.
            (B) A description of the options to improve such 
        capabilities and remediate such gaps.
            (C) A plan to carry out such improvements and remediations, 
        including milestones and costs for such plan.
        (3) Form.--Each assessment under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in classified form unless the Director determines that 
    submitting such assessment in unclassified form is useful and 
    expedient.
SEC. 1687. HYPERSONIC DEFENSE CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) Executive Agent.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
shall serve as the executive agent for the Department of Defense for 
the development of a capability by the United States to counter 
hypersonic boost-glide vehicle capabilities and conventional prompt 
strike capabilities that may be employed against the United States, the 
allies of the United States, and the deployed forces of the United 
States.
    (b) Duties.--In carrying out subsection (a), the Director shall--
        (1) develop architectures for a hypersonic defense capability, 
    from detecting threats to intercepting such threats, that--
            (A) involves systems of the military departments and the 
        Defense Agencies; and
            (B) includes both kinetic and nonkinetic options for such 
        interception; and
        (2) not later than September 30, 2017, establish a program of 
    record to develop a hypersonic defense capability.
    (c) Reports Required.--Not later than March 31, 2017--
        (1) the Director shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report on the architectures and sensors evaluated 
    pursuant to subsection (b); and
        (2) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report on the military 
    capability or capabilities and capability gaps relating to the 
    threat posed by hypersonic boost-glide vehicles and maneuvering 
    ballistic missiles to the United States, the allies of the United 
    States, and the deployed forces of the United States.
    (d) Notification of Funding Procedures.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date on which the Director submits the report under 
subsection (c)(1), the Director shall notify the congressional defense 
committees with respect to whether the Director intends to use 
established procedures for reprogramming or transfers to carry out 
subsection (a) to conduct activities regarding experimentation, 
modeling and simulation, or research and development, to develop a 
hypersonic defense capability.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``Defense Agencies'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 101(a)(11) of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``executive agent'' has the meaning given the term 
    ``DoD Executive Agent'' in Department of Defense Directive 5101.1, 
    or any successor directive relating to the responsibilities of an 
    executive agent of the Department of Defense.
        (3) The term ``hypersonic defense capability'' means the 
    capability to counter hypersonic boost-glide vehicles and 
    conventional prompt strike ballistic missiles.
SEC. 1688. CONVENTIONAL PROMPT GLOBAL STRIKE WEAPONS SYSTEM.
    (a) Milestone A Approval Decision.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
make a decision regarding Milestone A approval (as defined in section 
2366(e) of title 10, United States Code) for the conventional prompt 
global strike weapons system not later than the earlier of--
        (1) September 30, 2020; or
        (2) the date that is 240 days after the date of the successful 
    completion of intermediate range flight 2 of such system.
    (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
year 2017 for research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-
wide, for the conventional prompt global strike weapons system, not 
more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the date on 
which the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in consultation with 
the Commander of the United States European Command, the Commander of 
the United States Pacific Command, and the Commander of the United 
States Strategic Command, submits to the congressional defense 
committees a report on--
        (1) whether there are warfighter requirements or integrated 
    priorities list submitted needs for a limited operational 
    conventional prompt strike capability; and
        (2) whether the program plan and schedule proposed by the 
    program office in the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics supports such requirements 
    and integrated priorities lists submissions.
SEC. 1689. REQUIRED TESTING BY MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY OF GROUND-BASED 
MIDCOURSE DEFENSE ELEMENT OF BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    (a) Testing Required.--Except as provided in subsection (c), not 
less frequently than once each fiscal year, the Director of the Missile 
Defense Agency shall administer a flight test of the ground-based 
midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile defense system.
    (b) Requirements.--The Director shall ensure that each test carried 
out under subsection (a) provides, when possible, for one or more of 
the following:
        (1) The validation of technical improvements made to increase 
    system performance and reliability.
        (2) The evaluation of the operational effectiveness of the 
    ground-based midcourse defense element of the ballistic missile 
    defense system.
        (3) The use of threat-representative targets and critical 
    engagement conditions.
        (4) The evaluation of new configurations of interceptors before 
    they are fielded.
        (5) The satisfaction of the ``fly before buy'' acquisition 
    approach for new interceptor components or software.
        (6) The evaluation of the interoperability of the ground-based 
    midcourse defense element with other elements of the ballistic 
    missile defense systems.
    (c) Exceptions.--The Director may forgo a test under subsection (a) 
in a fiscal year under one or more of the following conditions:
        (1) Such a test would jeopardize national security.
        (2) Insufficient time considerations between post-test analysis 
    and subsequent pre-test design.
        (3) Insufficient funding.
        (4) An interceptor is unavailable.
        (5) A target is unavailable or is insufficiently representative 
    of threats.
        (6) The test range or necessary test assets are unavailable.
        (7) Inclement weather.
        (8) Any other condition the Director considers appropriate.
    (d) Certification.--Not later than 45 days after forgoing a test 
for a condition or conditions under subsection (c)(8), the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a certification setting 
forth the condition or conditions that caused the test to be forgone 
under such subsection.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 45 days after forgoing a test for any 
condition specified in subsection (c), the Director shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report setting forth the rationale 
for forgoing the test and a plan to restore an intercept flight test in 
the Integrated Master Test Plan of the Missile Defense Agency. In the 
case of a test forgone for a condition or conditions under subsection 
(c)(8), the report required by this subsection is in addition to the 
certification required by subsection (d).
SEC. 1690. IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET DEFENSE SYSTEM AND ISRAELI 
COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CODEVELOPMENT AND COPRODUCTION.
    (a) Iron Dome Short-range Rocket Defense System.--
        (1) Availability of funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
    year 2017 for procurement, Defense-wide, and available for the 
    Missile Defense Agency, not more than $62,000,000 may be provided 
    to the Government of Israel to procure Tamir interceptors for the 
    Iron Dome short-range rocket defense system through coproduction of 
    such interceptors in the United States by industry of the United 
    States.
        (2) Conditions.--
            (A) Agreement.--Funds described in paragraph (1) for the 
        Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be available 
        subject to the terms and conditions in the Agreement Between 
        the Department of Defense of the United States of America and 
        the Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron 
        Dome Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, 
        subject to an amended bilateral international agreement for 
        coproduction for Tamir interceptors. In negotiations by the 
        Missile Defense Agency and the Missile Defense Organization of 
        the Government of Israel regarding such production, the goal of 
        the United States is to maximize opportunities for coproduction 
        of the Tamir interceptors described in paragraph (1) in the 
        United States by industry of the United States.
            (B) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to the 
        initial obligation of funds described in paragraph (1), the 
        Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Under Secretary 
        of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall 
        jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees--
                (i) a certification that the amended bilateral 
            international agreement specified in subparagraph (A) is 
            being implemented as provided in such agreement; and
                (ii) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
            implementation of such agreement.
    (b) Israeli Cooperative Missile Defense Program Codevelopment and 
Coproduction.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017 for procurement, 
    Defense-wide, and available for the Missile Defense Agency--
            (A) not more than $150,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon 
        System, including for coproduction of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry; and
            (B) not more than $120,000,000 may be provided to the 
        Government of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
        Program, including for coproduction of parts and components in 
        the United States by United States industry.
        (2) Certification.--
            (A) Criteria.--Except as provided by paragraph (3), the 
        Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
        Logistics shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a certification that--
                (i) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
            successful completion of the knowledge points, technical 
            milestones, and production readiness reviews required by 
            the research, development, and technology agreements for 
            the David's Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
            Development Program, respectively;
                (ii) funds specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
            paragraph (1) will be provided on the basis of a one-for-
            one cash match made by Israel for such respective systems 
            or in another matching amount that otherwise meets best 
            efforts (as mutually agreed to by the United States and 
            Israel);
                (iii) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
            international agreement with Israel that establishes, with 
            respect to the use of such funds--

                    (I) in accordance with clause (iv), the terms of 
                coproduction of parts and components of such respective 
                systems on the basis of the greatest practicable 
                coproduction of parts, components, and all-up rounds 
                (if appropriate) by United States industry and 
                minimizes nonrecurring engineering and facilitization 
                expenses to the costs needed for coproduction;
                    (II) complete transparency on the requirement of 
                Israel for the number of interceptors and batteries of 
                such respective systems that will be procured, 
                including with respect to the procurement plans, 
                acquisition strategy, and funding profiles of Israel;
                    (III) technical milestones for coproduction of 
                parts and components and procurement of such respective 
                systems; and
                    (IV) joint approval processes for third-party sales 
                of such respective systems and the components of such 
                respective systems;

                (iv) the level of coproduction described in clause 
            (iii)(I) for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program and 
            the David's Sling Weapon System is not less than 50 
            percent; and
                (v) of the funds specified in subparagraph (B) of 
            paragraph (1), not more than $5,000,000 may be obligated or 
            expended to cover costs related to any delays, including 
            delays with respect to exchanging technical data or 
            specifications, of the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
            Program.
            (B) Number.--In carrying out subparagraph (A), the Under 
        Secretary may submit--
                (i) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
            Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor 
            Program; or
                (ii) separate certifications for each respective 
            system.
            (C) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees the certification under 
        subparagraph (A) by not later than 60 days before the funds 
        specified in paragraph (1) for the respective system covered by 
        the certification are provided to the Government of Israel.
        (3) Waiver.--The Under Secretary may waive the certification 
    required by paragraph (2) if the Under Secretary certifies to the 
    appropriate congressional committees that the Under Secretary has 
    received sufficient data from the Government of Israel to 
    demonstrate--
            (A) the funds specified in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
        paragraph (1) are provided to Israel solely for funding the 
        procurement of long-lead components and critical hardware in 
        accordance with a production plan, including a funding profile 
        detailing Israeli contributions for production, including long-
        lead production, of either David's Sling Weapon System or the 
        Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
            (B) such long-lead components have successfully completed 
        knowledge points, technical milestones, and production 
        readiness reviews; and
            (C) the long-lead procurement will be conducted in a manner 
        that maximizes coproduction in the United States without 
        incurring nonrecurring engineering activity or cost other than 
        such activity or cost required for suppliers of the United 
        States to start or restart production in the United States.
    (c) Limitation on Funding for David's Sling Weapon System.--None of 
the amounts appropriated or otherwise made available pursuant to 
subsection (a)(1) of section 1679 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1135) that 
remain available and are unobligated as of the date of the enactment of 
this Act may be obligated or expended until the appropriate 
congressional committees receive the plan required by subsection (d) of 
such section.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1691. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR LOWER TIER AIR AND 
MISSILE DEFENSE CAPABILITY OF THE ARMY.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for lower tier 
missile defense capability (PE 0604114A) radar replacement, not more 
than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until each of the 
following occurs:
        (1) The Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in coordination 
    with the Chief of Staff of the Army, submits to the congressional 
    defense committees a report on the manner in which the Director, 
    acting as the technical integrating authority for air and missile 
    defense, will ensure that the lower tier air and missile defense 
    radar will meet the requirements of the commanders of the combatant 
    commands for interoperability with the ballistic missile defense 
    system and other air and missile defense capabilities deployed and 
    planned to be deployed by the United States, including the 
    establishment of key military requirements for such integrated 
    capability and program development milestones.
        (2) The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff--
            (A) certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
        the planned lower tier air and missile defense radar of the 
        Army is being designed to fully support the required attributes 
        for modularity sought by the commanders of the geographic 
        combatant commands, including a description of such required 
        attributes and the key milestones that will be used to ensure 
        such modularity is achieved; and
            (B) notifies the congressional defense committees of any 
        objective requirements not met in the threshold requirement for 
        the air and missile defense capability of the Army, including 
        an assessment of any resulting capability gaps to military air 
        and missile defense capability.
    (b) Additional Limitation.--In addition to the limitation in 
subsection (a), of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act 
or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for lower tier missile 
defense capability (PE 0604114A) radar replacement, not more than 90 
percent may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Chief 
of Staff of the Army, in coordination with the Secretary of the Army, 
submits to the congressional defense committees a determination 
regarding--
        (1) whether the technology demonstration and knowledge points 
    progression of the technology maturation and risk reduction phase 
    of the lower tier air and missile defense radar acquisition program 
    support a fair, full, and open acquisition program that can begin 
    low-rate initial production earlier than 2021; and
        (2) if such production can begin earlier than 2021, what steps 
    the Chief of Staff is taking to achieve such an earlier production 
    date.
    (c) Notification on Delegation.--Not later than 30 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall notify the congressional 
defense committees as to whether the Under Secretary will delegate to 
the Secretary of the Army the acquisition authority for the lower tier 
air and missile defense radar program of the Army.
    (d) Notification on Funding.--Not later than 30 days after the 
completion of the technology demonstration phase of the lower tier air 
and missile defense radar acquisition program, the Secretary of the 
Army shall notify the congressional defense committees whether the 
Secretary could carry out a reprogramming or transfer of funds 
previously authorized to be appropriated for another purpose (in 
accordance with established procedures for reprogramming or transfers) 
to meaningfully accelerate the acquisition program and, if so, how.
SEC. 1692. PILOT PROGRAM ON LOSS OF UNCLASSIFIED, CONTROLLED TECHNICAL 
INFORMATION.
    (a) Pilot Program.--Beginning not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense 
Agency shall carry out a pilot program to implement improvements to the 
data protection options in the programs of the Missile Defense Agency 
(including the contractors of the Agency), particularly with respect to 
unclassified, controlled technical information and controlled 
unclassified information.
    (b) Priority.--In carrying out the pilot program under subsection 
(a), the Director shall give priority to implementing data protection 
options that are used by the private sector and have been proven 
successful.
    (c) Duration.--The Director shall carry out the pilot program under 
subsection (a) for not more than a 5-year period.
    (d) Notification.--Not later than 30 days before the date on which 
the Director commences the pilot program under subsection (a), the 
Director shall notify the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform of the House of 
Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate of--
        (1) the data protection options that the Director is 
    considering to implement under the pilot program and the potential 
    costs of such options; and
        (2) such option that is the preferred option of the Director.
    (e) Data Protection Options.--In this section, the term ``data 
protection options'' means actions to improve processes, practices, and 
systems that relate to the safeguarding, hygiene, and data protection 
of information.
SEC. 1693. PLAN FOR PROCUREMENT OF MEDIUM-RANGE DISCRIMINATION RADAR TO 
IMPROVE HOMELAND MISSILE DEFENSE.
    (a) Plan.--
        (1) Development.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
    shall develop a plan to--
            (A) procure a medium-range discrimination radar or 
        equivalent sensor for a location the Director determines will 
        improve homeland missile defense for the defense of Hawaii from 
        the limited ballistic missile threat (including accidental or 
        unauthorized launch); and
            (B) field such radar or equivalent sensor by not later than 
        December 31, 2021.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the plan developed under paragraph 
    (1).
    (b) Request for Proposals.--Not later than October 1, 2017, the 
Director shall issue a request for proposals for the medium-range 
discrimination radar or equivalent sensor specified in subsection 
(a)(1)(A).
SEC. 1694. REVIEW OF MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY BUDGET SUBMISSIONS FOR 
GROUND-BASED MIDCOURSE DEFENSE AND EVALUATION OF ALTERNATIVE GROUND-
BASED INTERCEPTOR DEPLOYMENTS.
    (a) Budget Sufficiency.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
    Evaluation shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the ground-based midcourse defense system.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include an 
    evaluation of each of the following:
            (A) The modernization requirements for the ground-based 
        midcourse system, including all command and control, ground 
        systems, sensors and sensor interfaces, boosters and kill 
        vehicles, and integration of known future systems and 
        components.
            (B) The obsolescence of such systems and components.
            (C) The industrial base requirements relating to the 
        ground-based midcourse system, as determined by the Director of 
        the Missile Defense Agency.
            (D) The extent to which the estimated levels of annual 
        funding included in the most recent budget and the future-years 
        defense program submitted under section 221 of title 10, United 
        States Code, fully fund the requirements under subparagraph 
        (A).
        (3) Updates.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
    each budget is submitted through January 31, 2021, the Director 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees an update to 
    the report under paragraph (1).
    (b) Evaluation of Transportable Ground-based Interceptor.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on transportable ground-based 
interceptors. Such report shall detail the views of the Director 
regarding--
        (1) the cost that is unconstrained by current projected budget 
    levels for the Missile Defense Agency (including a detailed program 
    development production and deployment cost and schedule for the 
    earliest technically possible deployment), the associated manning, 
    and the comparative cost (including as compared to developing a 
    fixed ground-based interceptor site), technical readiness, and 
    feasibility of a transportable ground-based interceptor as a means 
    to deploy additional ground-based interceptors for the defense of 
    the United States and the operational value of a transportable 
    ground-based interceptor for the defense of the homeland against a 
    limited ballistic missile attack, including from accidental or 
    unauthorized ballistic missile launch;
        (2) the type and number of flight and or intercept tests that 
    would be required to validate the capability and compatibility of a 
    transportable ground-based interceptor in the ballistic missile 
    defense system;
        (3) the enabling capabilities, and the cost of such 
    capabilities, to support such a system;
        (4) any safety consideration of a transportable ground-based 
    interceptor; and
        (5) other matters that the Director determines pertinent to 
    such a system.
    (c) Form.--The report submitted under subsection (b) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``budget'' and 
``defense budget materials'' have the meanings given those terms in 
section 231 of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1695. SEMIANNUAL NOTIFICATIONS ON MISSILE DEFENSE TESTS AND COSTS.
    (a) Notifications.--Not less than once every 180-day period 
beginning 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and 
ending on January 31, 2021, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a notification 
on--
        (1) the outcome of each planned flight test, including 
    intercept tests, occurring during the period covered by the 
    notification; and
        (2) flight tests, including intercept tests, planned to occur 
    after the date of the notification.
    (b) Elements.--Each notification shall include the following:
        (1) With respect to each test described in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) the cost;
            (B) any changes made to the scope or objectives of the 
        test, or future tests, and an explanation for such changes;
            (C) in the event of a failure of the test or a decision to 
        delay or cancel the test--
                (i) the reasons such test did not succeed or occur;
                (ii) the funds expended on such attempted test; and
                (iii) in the case of a test failure or cancelled test 
            that is the result of contractor performance, the 
            contractor liability, if appropriate, as compared to the 
            cost of such test and potential retest; and
            (D) the plan to conduct a retest, if necessary, and an 
        estimate of the cost of such retest.
        (2) With respect to each test described in subsection (a)(2)--
            (A) any changes made to the scope of the test;
            (B) whether the test was to occur earlier but was delayed; 
        and
            (C) an explanation for any such changes or delays.
        (3) The status of any open failure review boards or any failure 
    review boards completed during the period covered by the 
    notification.
    (c) Form.--Each notification submitted under subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1696. REPORTS ON UNFUNDED PRIORITIES OF THE MISSILE DEFENSE 
AGENCY.
    (a) Reports.--Not later than 10 days after the date on which the 
budget of the President for each of fiscal years 2018 and 2019 is 
submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United 
States Code, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall submit to 
the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, 
and to the congressional defense committees, a report on the unfunded 
priorities of the Missile Defense Agency.
    (b) Elements.--
        (1) In general.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
    specify, for each unfunded priority covered by such report, the 
    following:
            (A) A summary description of such priority, including the 
        objectives to be achieved if such priority is funded (whether 
        in whole or in part).
            (B) The additional amount of funds recommended in 
        connection with the objectives under subparagraph (A).
            (C) Account information with respect to such priority, 
        including the following (as applicable):
                (i) Line Item Number (LIN) for applicable procurement 
            accounts.
                (ii) Program Element (PE) number for applicable 
            research, development, test, and evaluation accounts.
                (iii) Sub-activity group (SAG) for applicable operation 
            and maintenance accounts.
        (2) Prioritization of priorities.--Each report under subsection 
    (a) shall present the unfunded priorities covered by such report in 
    order of urgency of priority.
    (c) Unfunded Priority Defined.--In this section, the term 
``unfunded priority'', in the case of a fiscal year, means a program, 
activity, or mission requirement of the Missile Defense Agency that--
        (1) is not funded in the budget of the President for the fiscal 
    year as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, 
    United States Code;
        (2) is necessary to fulfill a requirement associated with an 
    operational or contingency plan of a combatant command or other 
    validated requirement; and
        (3) would have been recommended for funding through the budget 
    referred to in paragraph (1) by the Director of the Missile Defense 
    Agency in connection with the budget if--
            (A) additional resources had been available for the budget 
        to fund the program, activity, or mission requirement; or
            (B) the program, activity, or mission requirement has 
        emerged since the budget was formulated.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 1697. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM UNMANNED 
AIRCRAFT.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 130i. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
    aircraft
    ``(a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any provision of title 18, the 
Secretary of Defense may take, and may authorize the armed forces to 
take, such actions described in subsection (b)(1) that are necessary to 
mitigate the threat (as defined by the Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Transportation) that an unmanned 
aircraft system or unmanned aircraft poses to the safety or security of 
a covered facility or asset.
    ``(b) Actions Described.--(1) The actions described in this 
paragraph are the following:
        ``(A) Detect, identify, monitor, and track the unmanned 
    aircraft system or unmanned aircraft, without prior consent, 
    including by means of intercept or other access of a wire, oral, or 
    electronic communication used to control the unmanned aircraft 
    system or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(B) Warn the operator of the unmanned aircraft system or 
    unmanned aircraft, including by passive or active, and direct or 
    indirect physical, electronic, radio, and electromagnetic means.
        ``(C) Disrupt control of the unmanned aircraft system or 
    unmanned aircraft, without prior consent, including by disabling 
    the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft by intercepting, 
    interfering, or causing interference with wire, oral, electronic, 
    or radio communications used to control the unmanned aircraft 
    system or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(D) Seize or exercise control of the unmanned aircraft system 
    or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(E) Seize or otherwise confiscate the unmanned aircraft 
    system or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(F) Use reasonable force to disable, damage, or destroy the 
    unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall develop the actions described 
in paragraph (1) in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation.
    ``(c) Forfeiture.--Any unmanned aircraft system or unmanned 
aircraft described in subsection (a) that is seized by the Secretary of 
Defense is subject to forfeiture to the United States.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
Transportation may prescribe regulations and shall issue guidance in 
the respective areas of each Secretary to carry out this section.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered facility or asset' means any facility 
    or asset that--
            ``(A) is identified by the Secretary of Defense for 
        purposes of this section;
            ``(B) is located in the United States (including the 
        territories and possessions of the United States); and
            ``(C) relates to--
                ``(i) the nuclear deterrence mission of the Department 
            of Defense, including with respect to nuclear command and 
            control, integrated tactical warning and attack assessment, 
            and continuity of government;
                ``(ii) the missile defense mission of the Department; 
            or
                ``(iii) the national security space mission of the 
            Department.
        ``(2) The terms `unmanned aircraft' and `unmanned aircraft 
    system' have the meanings given those terms in section 331 of the 
    FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 
    U.S.C. 40101 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
130h the following new item:

``130i. Protection of certain facilities and assets from unmanned 
          aircraft.''.
SEC. 1698. HARMFUL INTERFERENCE TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GLOBAL 
POSITIONING SYSTEM.
    (a) Federal Communications Commission Conditions on Commercial 
Terrestrial Operations.--Part I of title III of the Communications Act 
of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 301 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``SEC. 343. CONDITIONS ON COMMERCIAL TERRESTRIAL OPERATIONS.
    ``(a) In General.--The Commission shall not permit commercial 
terrestrial operations in the 1525-1559 megahertz band or the 1626.5-
1660.5 megahertz band until the date that is 90 days after the 
Commission resolves concerns of widespread harmful interference by such 
operations in such band to covered GPS devices.
    ``(b) Notice to Congress.--
        ``(1) In general.--At the conclusion of the decision regarding 
    whether to permit such operations in such band, the Commission 
    shall submit to the congressional committees described in paragraph 
    (2) official copies of the documents containing the final decision 
    of the Commission. If the decision is to permit such operations in 
    such band, such documents shall contain or be accompanied by an 
    explanation of how the concerns described in subsection (a) have 
    been resolved.
        ``(2) Congressional committees described.--The congressional 
    committees described in this paragraph are the following:
            ``(A) The Committee on Energy and Commerce and the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
            ``(B) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation and the Committee on Armed Services of the 
        Senate.
    ``(c) Covered GPS Device Defined.--In this section, the term 
`covered GPS device' means a Global Positioning System device of the 
Department of Defense.''.
    (b) Secretary of Defense Review of Harmful Interference.--
        (1) Review.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter until the date 
    referred to in paragraph (3), the Secretary of Defense shall 
    conduct a review to--
            (A) assess the ability of covered GPS devices to receive 
        signals from Global Positioning System satellites without 
        widespread harmful interference; and
            (B) determine if commercial communications services are 
        causing or will cause widespread harmful interference with 
        covered GPS devices.
        (2) Notice to congress.--
            (A) Notice.--If the Secretary of Defense determines during 
        a review under paragraph (1) that commercial communications 
        services are causing or will cause widespread harmful 
        interference with covered GPS devices, the Secretary shall 
        promptly submit to the congressional defense committees notice 
        of such interference.
            (B) Contents.--The notice required under subparagraph (A) 
        shall include--
                (i) a list and description of the covered GPS devices 
            that are being or expected to be interfered with by 
            commercial communications services;
                (ii) a description of the source of, and the entity 
            causing or expected to cause, the interference with such 
            devices;
                (iii) a description of the manner in which such source 
            or such entity is causing or expected to cause such 
            interference;
                (iv) a description of the magnitude of harm caused or 
            expected to be caused by such interference;
                (v) a description of the duration of and the conditions 
            and circumstances under which such interference is 
            occurring or expected to occur;
                (vi) a description of the impact of such interference 
            on the national security interests of the United States; 
            and
                (vii) a description of the plans of the Secretary to 
            address, alleviate, or mitigate such interference, 
            including the cost of such plans.
            (C) Form.--The notice required under subparagraph (A) shall 
        be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
        annex.
        (3) Termination date.--The date referred to in this paragraph 
    is the earlier of--
            (A) the date that is two years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act; or
            (B) the date on which the Secretary--
                (i) determines that commercial communications services 
            are not causing any widespread harmful interference with 
            covered GPS devices; and
                (ii) submits to the congressional defense committees 
            notice of the determination made under clause (i).
    (c) Covered GPS Device Defined.--In this section, the term 
``covered GPS device'' means a Global Positioning System device of the 
Department of Defense.
    (d) Conforming Repeal.--Section 911 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1534) is repealed.

         TITLE XVII--GUAM WORLD WAR II LOYALTY RECOGNITION ACT

Sec. 1701. Short title.
Sec. 1702. Recognition of the suffering and loyalty of the residents of 
          Guam.
Sec. 1703. Guam World War II Claims Fund.
Sec. 1704. Payments for Guam World War II claims.
Sec. 1705. Adjudication.
Sec. 1706. Grants program to memorialize the occupation of Guam during 
          World War II.
Sec. 1707. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 1701. SHORT TITLE.
    This title may be cited as the ``Guam World War II Loyalty 
Recognition Act''.
SEC. 1702. RECOGNITION OF THE SUFFERING AND LOYALTY OF THE RESIDENTS OF 
GUAM.
    (a) Recognition of the Suffering of the Residents of Guam.--The 
United States recognizes that, as described by the Guam War Claims 
Review Commission, the residents of Guam, on account of their United 
States nationality, suffered unspeakable harm as a result of the 
occupation of Guam by Imperial Japanese military forces during World 
War II, by being subjected to death, rape, severe personal injury, 
personal injury, forced labor, forced march, or internment.
    (b) Recognition of the Loyalty of the Residents of Guam.--The 
United States forever will be grateful to the residents of Guam for 
their steadfast loyalty to the United States, as demonstrated by the 
countless acts of courage they performed despite the threat of death or 
great bodily harm they faced at the hands of the Imperial Japanese 
military forces that occupied Guam during World War II.
SEC. 1703. GUAM WORLD WAR II CLAIMS FUND.
    (a) Establishment of Fund.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall 
establish in the Treasury of the United States a special fund (in this 
title referred to as the ``Claims Fund'') for the payment of claims 
submitted by compensable Guam victims and survivors of compensable Guam 
decedents in accordance with sections 1704 and 1705.
    (b) Composition of Fund.--The Claims Fund established under 
subsection (a) shall be composed of amounts deposited into the Claims 
Fund under subsection (c) and any other payments made available for the 
payment of claims under this title.
    (c) Payment of Certain Duties, Taxes, and Fees Collected From Guam 
Deposited Into Fund.--
        (1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 30 of the Organic Act 
    of Guam (48 U.S.C. 1421h), the excess of--
            (A) any amount of duties, taxes, and fees collected under 
        such section after fiscal year 2014, over
            (B) the amount of duties, taxes, and fees collected under 
        such section during fiscal year 2014,
    shall be deposited into the Claims Fund.
        (2) Application.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply after the date 
    for which the Secretary of the Treasury determines that all 
    payments required to be made under section 1704 have been made.
    (d) Limitation on Payments Made From Fund.--
        (1) In general.--No payment may be made in a fiscal year under 
    section 1704 until funds are deposited into the Claims Fund in such 
    fiscal year under subsection (c).
        (2) Amounts.--For each fiscal year in which funds are deposited 
    into the Claims Fund under subsection (c), the total amount of 
    payments made in a fiscal year under section 1704 may not exceed 
    the amount of funds available in the Claims Fund for such fiscal 
    year.
    (e) Deductions From Fund for Administrative Expenses.--The 
Secretary of the Treasury shall deduct from any amounts deposited into 
the Claims Fund an amount equal to 5 percent of such amounts as 
reimbursement to the Federal Government for expenses incurred by the 
Foreign Claims Settlement Commission and by the Department of the 
Treasury in the administration of this title. The amounts so deducted 
shall be covered into the Treasury as miscellaneous receipts.
SEC. 1704. PAYMENTS FOR GUAM WORLD WAR II CLAIMS.
    (a) Payments for Death, Personal Injury, Forced Labor, Forced 
March, and Internment.--After the Secretary of the Treasury receives 
the certification from the Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement 
Commission as required under section 1705(b)(8), the Secretary of the 
Treasury shall make payments, subject to the availably of 
appropriations, to compensable Guam victims and survivors of a 
compensable Guam decedents as follows:
        (1) Compensable guam victim.--Before making any payments under 
    paragraph (2), the Secretary shall make payments to compensable 
    Guam victims as follows:
            (A) In the case of a victim who has suffered an injury 
        described in subsection (c)(2)(A), $15,000.
            (B) In the case of a victim who is not described in 
        subparagraph (A), but who has suffered an injury described in 
        subsection (c)(2)(B), $12,000.
            (C) In the case of a victim who is not described in 
        subparagraph (A) or (B), but who has suffered an injury 
        described in subsection (c)(2)(C), $10,000.
        (2) Survivors of compensable guam decedents.--In the case of a 
    compensable Guam decedent, the Secretary shall pay $25,000 for 
    distribution to survivors of the decedent in accordance with 
    subsection (b). The Secretary shall make payments under this 
    paragraph only after all payments are made under paragraph (1).
    (b) Distribution of Survivor Payments.--A payment made under 
subsection (a)(2) to the survivors of a compensable Guam decedent shall 
be distributed as follows:
        (1) In the case of a decedent whose spouse is living as of the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, but who had no living children 
    as of such date, the payment shall be made to such spouse.
        (2) In the case of a decedent whose spouse is living as of the 
    date of the enactment of this Act and who had one or more living 
    children as of such date, 50 percent of the payment shall be made 
    to the spouse and 50 percent shall be made to such children, to be 
    divided among such children to the greatest extent possible into 
    equal shares.
        (3) In the case of a decedent whose spouse is not living as of 
    the date of the enactment of this Act and who had one or more 
    living children as of such date, the payment shall be made to such 
    children, to be divided among such children to the greatest extent 
    possible into equal shares.
        (4) In the case of a decedent whose spouse is not living as of 
    the date of the enactment of this Act and who had no living 
    children as of such date, but who--
            (A) had a parent who is living as of such date, the payment 
        shall be made to the parent; or
            (B) had two parents who are living as of such date, the 
        payment shall be divided equally between the parents.
        (5) In the case of a decedent whose spouse is not living as of 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, who had no living children 
    as of such date, and who had no parents who are living as of such 
    date, no payment shall be made.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this title:
        (1) Compensable guam decedent.--The term ``compensable Guam 
    decedent'' means an individual determined under section 1705 to 
    have been a resident of Guam who died as a result of the attack and 
    occupation of Guam by Imperial Japanese military forces during 
    World War II, or incident to the liberation of Guam by United 
    States military forces, and whose death would have been compensable 
    under the Guam Meritorious Claims Act of 1945 (Public Law 79-224) 
    if a timely claim had been filed under the terms of such Act.
        (2) Compensable guam victim.--The term ``compensable Guam 
    victim'' means an individual who is not deceased as of the date of 
    the enactment of this Act and who is determined under section 1705 
    to have suffered, as a result of the attack and occupation of Guam 
    by Imperial Japanese military forces during World War II, or 
    incident to the liberation of Guam by United States military 
    forces, any of the following:
            (A) Rape or severe personal injury (such as loss of a limb, 
        dismemberment, or paralysis).
            (B) Forced labor or a personal injury not under 
        subparagraph (A) (such as disfigurement, scarring, or burns).
            (C) Forced march, internment, or hiding to evade 
        internment.
        (3) Definitions of severe personal injuries and personal 
    injuries.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
    of this Act, the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission shall 
    promulgate regulations to specify the injuries that constitute a 
    severe personal injury or a personal injury for purposes of 
    subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, of paragraph (2).
SEC. 1705. ADJUDICATION.
    (a) Authority of Foreign Claims Settlement Commission.--
        (1) In general.--The Foreign Claims Settlement Commission shall 
    adjudicate claims and determine the eligibility of individuals for 
    payments under section 1704.
        (2) Rules and regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Foreign 
    Claims Settlement Commission shall publish in the Federal Register 
    such rules and regulations as may be necessary to enable the 
    Commission to carry out the functions of the Commission under this 
    title.
    (b) Claims Submitted for Payments.--
        (1) Submittal of claim.--For purposes of subsection (a)(1) and 
    subject to paragraph (2), the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission 
    may not determine an individual is eligible for a payment under 
    section 1704 unless the individual submits to the Commission a 
    claim in such manner and form and containing such information as 
    the Commission specifies.
        (2) Filing period for claims and notice.--
            (A) Filing period.--An individual filing a claim for a 
        payment under section 1704 shall file such claim not later than 
        one year after the date on which the Foreign Claims Settlement 
        Commission publishes the notice described in subparagraph (B).
            (B) Notice of filing period.--Not later than 180 days after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act, the Foreign Claims 
        Settlement Commission shall publish a notice of the deadline 
        for filing a claim described in subparagraph (A)--
                (i) in the Federal Register; and
                (ii) in newspaper, radio, and television media in Guam.
        (3) Adjudicatory decisions.--The decision of the Foreign Claims 
    Settlement Commission on each claim filed under this title shall--
            (A) be by majority vote;
            (B) be in writing;
            (C) state the reasons for the approval or denial of the 
        claim; and
            (D) if approved, state the amount of the payment awarded 
        and the distribution, if any, to be made of the payment.
        (4) Deductions in payment.--The Foreign Claims Settlement 
    Commission shall deduct, from a payment made to a compensable Guam 
    victim or survivors of a compensable Guam decedent under this 
    section, amounts paid to such victim or survivors under the Guam 
    Meritorious Claims Act of 1945 (Public Law 79-224) before the date 
    of the enactment of this Act.
        (5) Interest.--No interest shall be paid on payments made by 
    the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission under section 1704.
        (6) Limited compensation for provision of representational 
    services.--
            (A) Limit on compensation.--Any agreement under which an 
        individual who provided representational services to an 
        individual who filed a claim for a payment under this title 
        that provides for compensation to the individual who provided 
        such services in an amount that is more than one percent of the 
        total amount of such payment shall be unlawful and void.
            (B) Penalties.--Whoever demands or receives any 
        compensation in excess of the amount allowed under subparagraph 
        (A) shall be fined not more than $5,000 or imprisoned not more 
        than one year, or both.
        (7) Appeals and finality.--Objections and appeals of decisions 
    of the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission shall be to the 
    Commission, and upon rehearing, the decision in each claim shall be 
    final, and not subject to further review by any court or agency.
        (8) Certifications for payment.--After a decision approving a 
    claim becomes final, the Chairman of the Foreign Claims Settlement 
    Commission shall certify such decision to the Secretary of the 
    Treasury for authorization of a payment under section 1704.
        (9) Treatment of affidavits.--For purposes of section 1704 and 
    subject to paragraph (2), the Foreign Claims Settlement Commission 
    shall treat a claim that is accompanied by an affidavit of an 
    individual that attests to all of the material facts required for 
    establishing the eligibility of such individual for payment under 
    such section as establishing a prima facie case of the eligibility 
    of the individual for such payment without the need for further 
    documentation, except as the Commission may otherwise require. Such 
    material facts shall include, with respect to a claim for a payment 
    made under section 1704(a), a detailed description of the injury or 
    other circumstance supporting the claim involved, including the 
    level of payment sought.
        (10) Release of related claims.--Acceptance of a payment under 
    section 1704 by an individual for a claim related to a compensable 
    Guam decedent or a compensable Guam victim shall be in full 
    satisfaction of all claims related to such decedent or victim, 
    respectively, arising under the Guam Meritorious Claims Act of 1945 
    (Public Law 79-224), the implementing regulations issued by the 
    United States Navy pursuant to such Act (Public Law 79-224), or 
    this title.
SEC. 1706. GRANTS PROGRAM TO MEMORIALIZE THE OCCUPATION OF GUAM DURING 
WORLD WAR II.
    (a) Establishment.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary of the 
Interior shall establish a grant program under which the Secretary 
shall award grants for research, educational, and media activities for 
purposes of appropriately illuminating and interpreting the causes and 
circumstances of the occupation of Guam during World War II and other 
similar occupations during the war that--
        (1) memorialize the events surrounding such occupation; or
        (2) honor the loyalty of the people of Guam during such 
    occupation.
    (b) Eligibility.--The Secretary of the Interior may not award a 
grant under subsection (a) unless the person seeking the grant submits 
an application to the Secretary for such grant, in such time, manner, 
and form and containing such information as the Secretary specifies.
SEC. 1707. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Guam World War II Claims Payments and Adjudication.--For the 
purposes of carrying out sections 1704 and 1705, there is authorized to 
be appropriated for any fiscal year beginning after the date of 
enactment of this Act, an amount equal to the amount deposited into the 
Claims Fund in a fiscal year under section 1703. Not more than 5 
percent of funds make available under this subsection shall be used for 
administrative costs. Amounts appropriated under this section may 
remain available until expended.
    (b) Guam World War II Grants Program.--For purposes of carrying out 
section 1706, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for 
each fiscal year beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act.

      TITLE XVIII--MATTERS RELATING TO SMALL BUSINESS PROCUREMENT

   Subtitle A--Improving Transparency and Clarity for Small Businesses

Sec. 1801. Plain language rewrite of requirements for small business 
          procurements.
Sec. 1802. Transparency in small business goals.

      Subtitle B--Clarifying the Roles of Small Business Advocates

Sec. 1811. Scope of review by procurement center representatives.
Sec. 1812. Duties of the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
          Utilization.
Sec. 1813. Improving contractor compliance.
Sec. 1814. Improving education on small business regulations.

       Subtitle C--Strengthening Opportunities for Competition in 
                             Subcontracting

Sec. 1821. Good faith in subcontracting.
Sec. 1822. Pilot program to provide opportunities for qualified 
          subcontractors to obtain past performance ratings.
Sec. 1823. Amendments to the Mentor-Protege Program of the Department of 
          Defense.

                  Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Provisions

Sec. 1831. Improvements to size standards for small agricultural 
          producers.
Sec. 1832. Uniformity in service-disabled veteran definitions.
Sec. 1833. Office of Hearings and Appeals.
Sec. 1834. Extension of SBIR and STTR programs.
Sec. 1835. Issuance of guidance on small business matters.

      Subtitle E--Improving Cyber Preparedness for Small Businesses

Sec. 1841. Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy and 
          outreach.
Sec. 1842. Role of small business development centers in cybersecurity 
          and preparedness.
Sec. 1843. Additional cybersecurity assistance for small business 
          development centers.
Sec. 1844. Prohibition on additional funds.

  Subtitle A--Improving Transparency and Clarity for Small Businesses

SEC. 1801. PLAIN LANGUAGE REWRITE OF REQUIREMENTS FOR SMALL BUSINESS 
PROCUREMENTS.
    Section 15(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(a)) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Small Business Procurements.--
        ``(1) In general.--For purposes of this Act, small business 
    concerns shall receive any award or contract if such award or 
    contract is, in the determination of the Administrator and the 
    contracting agency, in the interest of--
            ``(A) maintaining or mobilizing the full productive 
        capacity of the United States;
            ``(B) war or national defense programs; or
            ``(C) assuring that a fair proportion of the total purchase 
        and contracts for goods and services of the Government in each 
        industry category (as defined under paragraph (2)) are awarded 
        to small business concerns.
        ``(2) Industry category defined.--
            ``(A) In general.--In this subsection, the term `industry 
        category' means a discrete group of similar goods and services, 
        as determined by the Administrator in accordance with the North 
        American Industry Classification System codes used to establish 
        small business size standards, except that the Administrator 
        shall limit an industry category to a greater extent than 
        provided under the North American Industry Classification 
        System codes if the Administrator receives evidence indicating 
        that further segmentation of the industry category is 
        warranted--
                ``(i) due to special capital equipment needs;
                ``(ii) due to special labor requirements;
                ``(iii) due to special geographic requirements, except 
            as provided in subparagraph (B);
                ``(iv) due to unique Federal buying patterns or 
            requirements; or
                ``(v) to recognize a new industry.
            ``(B) Exception for geographic requirements.--The 
        Administrator may not further segment an industry category 
        based on geographic requirements unless--
                ``(i) the Government typically designates the 
            geographic area where work for contracts for goods or 
            services is to be performed;
                ``(ii) Government purchases comprise the major portion 
            of the entire domestic market for such goods or services; 
            and
                ``(iii) it is unreasonable to expect competition from 
            business concerns located outside of the general geographic 
            area due to the fixed location of facilities, high 
            mobilization costs, or similar economic factors.
        ``(3) Determinations with respect to awards or contracts.--
    Determinations made pursuant to paragraph (1) may be made for 
    individual awards or contracts, any part of an award or contract or 
    task order, or for classes of awards or contracts or task orders.
        ``(4) Increasing prime contracting opportunities for small 
    business concerns.--
            ``(A) Description of covered proposed procurements.--The 
        requirements of this paragraph shall apply to a proposed 
        procurement that includes in its statement of work goods or 
        services currently being supplied or performed by a small 
        business concern and, as determined by the Administrator--
                ``(i) is in a quantity or of an estimated dollar value 
            which makes the participation of a small business concern 
            as a prime contractor unlikely;
                ``(ii) in the case of a proposed procurement for 
            construction, seeks to bundle or consolidate discrete 
            construction projects; or
                ``(iii) is a solicitation that involves an unnecessary 
            or unjustified bundling of contract requirements.
            ``(B) Notice to procurement center representatives.--With 
        respect to proposed procurements described in subparagraph (A), 
        at least 30 days before issuing a solicitation and concurrent 
        with other processing steps required before issuing the 
        solicitation, the contracting agency shall provide a copy of 
        the proposed procurement to the procurement center 
        representative of the contracting agency (as described in 
        subsection (l)) along with a statement explaining--
                ``(i) why the proposed procurement cannot be divided 
            into reasonably small lots (not less than economic 
            production runs) to permit offers on quantities less than 
            the total requirement;
                ``(ii) why delivery schedules cannot be established on 
            a realistic basis that will encourage the participation of 
            small business concerns in a manner consistent with the 
            actual requirements of the Government;
                ``(iii) why the proposed procurement cannot be offered 
            to increase the likelihood of the participation of small 
            business concerns;
                ``(iv) in the case of a proposed procurement for 
            construction, why the proposed procurement cannot be 
            offered as separate discrete projects; or
                ``(v) why the contracting agency has determined that 
            the bundling of contract requirements is necessary and 
            justified.
            ``(C) Alternatives to increase prime contracting 
        opportunities for small business concerns.--If the procurement 
        center representative believes that the proposed procurement 
        will make the participation of small business concerns as prime 
        contractors unlikely, the procurement center representative, 
        within 15 days after receiving the statement described in 
        subparagraph (B), shall recommend to the contracting agency 
        alternative procurement methods for increasing prime 
        contracting opportunities for small business concerns.
            ``(D) Failure to agree on an alternative procurement 
        method.--If the procurement center representative and the 
        contracting agency fail to agree on an alternative procurement 
        method, the Administrator shall submit the matter to the head 
        of the appropriate department or agency for a determination.
        ``(5) Contracts for sale of government property.--With respect 
    to a contract for the sale of Government property, small business 
    concerns shall receive any such contract if, in the determination 
    of the Administrator and the disposal agency, the award of such 
    contract is in the interest of assuring that a fair proportion of 
    the total sales of Government property be made to small business 
    concerns.
        ``(6) Sale of electrical power or other property.--Nothing in 
    this subsection shall be construed to change any preferences or 
    priorities established by law with respect to the sale of 
    electrical power or other property by the Federal Government.
        ``(7) Costs exceeding fair market price.--A contract may not be 
    awarded under this subsection if the cost of the contract to the 
    awarding agency exceeds a fair market price.''.
SEC. 1802. TRANSPARENCY IN SMALL BUSINESS GOALS.
    Section 15(h)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(h)(3)) is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) Procurement data.--
            ``(A) Federal procurement data system.--
                ``(i) In general.--To assist in the implementation of 
            this section, the Administrator shall have access to 
            information collected through the Federal Procurement Data 
            System, Federal Subcontracting Reporting System, or any new 
            or successor system.
                ``(ii) GSA report.--On the date that the Administrator 
            makes available the report required under paragraph (2), 
            the Administrator of the General Services Administration 
            shall submit to the President and Congress, and shall make 
            available on a public website, a report in the same form 
            and manner, and including the same information, as the 
            report required under paragraph (2). The report shall 
            include all procurements made for the period covered by the 
            report and may not exclude any contract awarded.
            ``(B) Agency procurement data sources.--To assist in the 
        implementation of this section, the head of each contracting 
        agency shall provide, upon request of the Administrator, 
        procurement information collected through agency data 
        collection sources in existence at the time of the request. 
        Contracting agencies shall not be required to establish new 
        data collection systems to provide such data.''.

      Subtitle B--Clarifying the Roles of Small Business Advocates

SEC. 1811. SCOPE OF REVIEW BY PROCUREMENT CENTER REPRESENTATIVES.
    (a) Section 15(l) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(l)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(9) Scope of review.--The Administrator--
            ``(A) may not limit the scope of review by the procurement 
        center representative for any solicitation of a contract or 
        task order without regard to whether the contract or task order 
        or part of the contract or task order is set aside for small 
        business concerns, whether 1 or more contracts or task order 
        awards are reserved for small business concerns under a 
        multiple award contract, or whether or not the solicitation 
        would result in a bundled or consolidated contract (as defined 
        in subsection (s)) or a bundled or consolidated task order; and
            ``(B) shall, unless the contracting agency requests a 
        review, limit the scope of review by the procurement center 
        representative for any solicitation of a contract or task order 
        if such solicitation is awarded by or for the Department of 
        Defense and--
                ``(i) is conducted pursuant to section 22 of the Arms 
            Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2762);
                ``(ii) is a humanitarian operation as defined in 
            section 401(e) of title 10, United States Code;
                ``(iii) is for a contingency operation, as defined in 
            section 101(a)(13) of title 10, United States Code;
                ``(iv) is to be awarded pursuant to an agreement with 
            the government of a foreign country in which Armed Forces 
            of the United States are deployed; or
                ``(v) both the place of award and the place of 
            performance are outside of the United States and its 
            territories.''.
    (b) Section 15(g)(2)(B) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
644(g)(2)(B) is amended by inserting after the period at the end the 
following new sentence: ``Contracts excluded from review by procurement 
center representatives pursuant to subsection (l)(9)(B) shall not be 
considered when establishing these goals.''.
SEC. 1812. DUTIES OF THE OFFICE OF SMALL AND DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS 
UTILIZATION.
    Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``section 8, 15 or 44'' and inserting ``section 
    8, 15, 31, 36, or 44'';
        (2) by striking ``sections 8 and 15'' each place such term 
    appears and inserting ``sections 8, 15, 31, 36, and 44'';
        (3) in paragraph (10), by striking ``section 8(a)'' and 
    inserting ``section 8, 15, 31, or 36'';
        (4) in paragraph (17)(C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting a semicolon;
        (5) by inserting after paragraph (17) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(18) shall review summary data provided by purchase card 
    issuers of purchases made by the agency greater than the micro-
    purchase threshold (as defined under section 1902 of title 41, 
    United Stated Code) and less than the simplified acquisition 
    threshold to ensure that the purchases have been made in compliance 
    with the provisions of this Act and have been properly recorded in 
    the Federal Procurement Data System, if the method of payment is a 
    purchase card issued by the Department of Defense pursuant to 
    section 2784 of title 10, United States Code, or by the head of an 
    executive agency pursuant to section 1909 of title 41, United 
    States Code;''; and
        (6) in paragraph (16)--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end; 
        and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) any failure of the agency to comply with section 8, 
        15, 31, or 36;''.
SEC. 1813. IMPROVING CONTRACTOR COMPLIANCE.
    (a) Requirements for the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
Utilization.--Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
644(k)(8)), as amended by this Act, is further amended by inserting 
after paragraph (18) (as inserted by section 1812 of this Act) the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(19) shall provide assistance to a small business concern 
    awarded a contract or subcontract under this Act or under title 10 
    or title 41, United States Code, in finding resources for education 
    and training on compliance with contracting regulations (including 
    the Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of such a contract 
    or subcontract; and''.
    (b) Requirements Under the Mentor-Protege Program of the Department 
of Defense.--Section 831(e)(1) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1607; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) the assistance the mentor firm will provide to the 
        protege firm in understanding contract regulations of the 
        Federal Government and the Department of Defense (including the 
        Federal Acquisition Regulation and the Defense Federal 
        Acquisition Regulation Supplement) after award of a subcontract 
        under this section, if applicable.''.
    (c) Resources for Small Business Concerns.--Section 15 of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(u) Post-Award Compliance Resources.--The Administrator shall 
provide to small business development centers and entities 
participating in the Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative 
Agreement Program under chapter 142 of title 10, United States Code, 
and shall make available on the website of the Administration, a list 
of resources for small business concerns seeking education and 
assistance on compliance with contracting regulations (including the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation) after award of a contract or 
subcontract.''.
    (d) Requirements for Procurement Center Representatives.--Section 
15(l)(2) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(l)(2)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (J);
        (2) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the end; and
        (3) by inserting after subparagraph (H) the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(I) assist small business concerns with finding resources 
        for education and training on compliance with contracting 
        regulations (including the Federal Acquisition Regulation) 
        after award of a contract or subcontract; and''.
    (e) Requirements Under the Mentor-Protege Program of the Small 
Business Administration.--Section 45(b)(3) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 657r(b)(3)) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new subparagraph:
            ``(K) The types of assistance provided by a mentor to 
        assist with compliance with the requirements of contracting 
        with the Federal Government after award of a contract or 
        subcontract under this section.''.
SEC. 1814. IMPROVING EDUCATION ON SMALL BUSINESS REGULATIONS.
    (a) Regulatory Changes and Training Materials.--Section 15 of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644), as amended by section 1813, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(v) Regulatory Changes and Training Materials.--Not less than 
annually, the Administrator shall provide to the Defense Acquisition 
University (established under section 1746 of title 10, United States 
Code), the Federal Acquisition Institute (established under section 
1201 of title 41, United States Code), the individual responsible for 
mandatory training and education of the acquisition workforce of each 
agency (described under section 1703(f)(1)(C) of title 41, United 
States Code), small business development centers, and entities 
participating in the Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative 
Agreement Program under chapter 142 of title 10, United States Code--
        ``(1) a list of all changes made in the prior year to 
    regulations promulgated--
            ``(A) by the Administrator that affect Federal acquisition; 
        and
            ``(B) by the Federal Acquisition Council that implement 
        amendments to this Act; and
        ``(2) any materials the Administrator has developed that 
    explain, train, or assist Federal agencies or departments or small 
    business concerns with compliance with the regulations described in 
    paragraph (1).''.
    (b) Training To Be Updated.--After receipt of information from the 
Administrator of the Small Business Administration pursuant to section 
15(v) of the Small Business Act, the Defense Acquisition University 
(established under section 1746 of title 10, United States Code) and 
the Federal Acquisition Institute (established under section 1201 of 
title 41, United States Code) shall periodically update the training 
provided to the acquisition workforce to incorporate such information.

      Subtitle C--Strengthening Opportunities for Competition in 
                             Subcontracting

SEC. 1821. GOOD FAITH IN SUBCONTRACTING.
    (a) Transparency in Subcontracting Goals.--Section 8(d)(9) of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(9)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(9) The failure'' and inserting the 
    following:
        ``(9) Material breach.--The failure'';
        (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;
        (3) in subparagraph (B), by inserting ``or'' at the end;
        (4) by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(C) assurances provided under paragraph (6)(E),''; and
        (5) by moving the margins of subparagraphs (A) and (B), and the 
    matter after subparagraph (C) (as inserted by paragraph (4)), 2 ems 
    to the right.
    (b) Review of Subcontracting Plans.--Section 15(k) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)) as amended by this Act, is further 
amended by inserting after paragraph (19) (as inserted by section 1813 
of this Act) the following new paragraph:
        ``(20) shall review all subcontracting plans required by 
    paragraph (4) or (5) of section 8(d) to ensure that the plan 
    provides maximum practicable opportunity for small business 
    concerns to participate in the performance of the contract to which 
    the plan applies.''.
    (c) Good Faith Compliance.--Not later than 270 days after the date 
of enactment of this title, the Administrator of the Small Business 
Administration shall provide examples of activities that would be 
considered a failure to make a good faith effort to comply with the 
requirements imposed on an entity (other than a small business concern 
as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) 
that is awarded a prime contract containing the clauses required under 
paragraph (4) or (5) of section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 637(d)).
SEC. 1822. PILOT PROGRAM TO PROVIDE OPPORTUNITIES FOR QUALIFIED 
SUBCONTRACTORS TO OBTAIN PAST PERFORMANCE RATINGS.
    Section 8(d) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(17) Pilot Program Providing Past Performance Ratings for Other 
Small Business Subcontractors.--
        ``(A) Establishment.--The Administrator shall establish a pilot 
    program for a small business concern without a past performance 
    rating as a prime contractor performing as a first tier 
    subcontractor for a covered contract (as defined in paragraph 
    13(A)) to request a past performance rating in the system used by 
    the Federal Government to monitor or record contractor past 
    performance.
        ``(B) Application.--A small business concern described in 
    subparagraph (A) shall submit an application to the appropriate 
    official for a past performance rating no later than 270 days after 
    the small business concern completed the work for which it seeks a 
    past performance rating or 180 days after the prime contractor 
    completes work on the covered contract, whichever is earlier. Such 
    application shall include written evidence of the past performance 
    factors for which the small business concern seeks a rating and a 
    suggested rating.
        ``(C) Determination.--The appropriate official shall submit the 
    application from the small business concern to the Office of Small 
    and Disadvantaged Business Utilization for the covered contract and 
    to the prime contractor for review. The Office of Small and 
    Disadvantaged Business Utilization and the prime contractor shall, 
    not later than 30 days after receipt of the application, submit to 
    the appropriate official a response regarding the application.
            ``(i) Agreement on rating.--If the Office of Small and 
        Disadvantaged Business Utilization and the prime contractor 
        agree on a past performance rating, or if either the Office of 
        Small and Disadvantaged Business Utilization or the prime 
        contractor fail to respond and the responding person agrees 
        with the rating of the applicant small business concern, the 
        appropriate official shall enter the agreed-upon past 
        performance rating in the system described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(ii) Disagreement on rating.--If the Office of Small and 
        Disadvantaged Business Utilization and the prime contractor 
        fail to respond within 30 days or if they disagree about the 
        rating, or if either the Office of Small and Disadvantaged 
        Business Utilization or the prime contractor fail to respond 
        and the responding person disagrees with the rating of the 
        applicant small business concern, the Office of Small and 
        Disadvantaged Business Utilization or the prime contractor 
        shall submit a notice contesting the application to the 
        appropriate official. The appropriate official shall follow the 
        requirements of subparagraph (D).
        ``(D) Procedure for rating.--Not later than 14 calendar days 
    after receipt of a notice under subparagraph (C)(ii), the 
    appropriate official shall submit such notice to the applicant 
    small business concern. Such concern may submit comments, 
    rebuttals, or additional information relating to the past 
    performance of such concern not later 14 calendar days after 
    receipt of such notice. The appropriate official shall enter into 
    the system described in subparagraph (A) a rating that is neither 
    favorable nor unfavorable along with the initial application from 
    such concern, any responses of the Office of Small and 
    Disadvantaged Business Utilization and the prime contractor, and 
    any additional information provided by such concern. A copy of the 
    information submitted shall be provided to the contracting officer 
    (or designee of such officer) for the covered contract.
        ``(E) Use of information.--A small business subcontractor may 
    use a past performance rating given under this paragraph to 
    establish its past performance for a prime contract.
        ``(F) Duration.--The pilot program established under this 
    paragraph shall terminate 3 years after the date on which the first 
    applicant small business concern receives a past performance rating 
    for performance as a first tier subcontractor.
        ``(G) Report.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall begin an assessment of the pilot program 1 year after the 
    establishment of such program. Not later than 6 months after 
    beginning such assessment, the Comptroller General shall submit a 
    report to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of 
    the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
    Representatives, which shall include--
            ``(i) the number of small business concerns that have 
        received past performance ratings under the pilot program;
            ``(ii) the number of applications in which the contracting 
        officer (or designee) or the prime contractor contested the 
        application of the small business concern;
            ``(iii) any suggestions or recommendations the Comptroller 
        General or the small business concerns participating in the 
        program have to address disputes between the small business 
        concern, the contracting officer (or designee), and the prime 
        contractor on past performance ratings;
            ``(iv) the number of small business concerns awarded prime 
        contracts after receiving a past performance rating under this 
        pilot program; and
            ``(v) any suggestions or recommendation the Comptroller 
        General has to improve the operation of the pilot program.
        ``(H) Appropriate official defined.--In this paragraph, the 
    term `appropriate official' means--
            ``(i) a commercial market representative;
            ``(ii) another individual designated by the senior official 
        appointed by the Administrator with responsibilities under 
        sections 8, 15, 31, and 36; or
            ``(iii) the Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business 
        Utilization of a Federal agency, if the head of the Federal 
        agency and the Administrator agree.''.
SEC. 1823. AMENDMENTS TO THE MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM OF THE DEPARTMENT 
OF DEFENSE.
    Section 831 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1607; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended--
        (1) by amending subsection (d) to read as follows:
    ``(d) Mentor Firm Eligibility.--
        ``(1) Subject to subsection (c)(1), a mentor firm may enter 
    into an agreement with one or more protege firms under subsection 
    (e) and provide assistance under the program pursuant to that 
    agreement if the mentor firm--
            ``(A) is eligible for award of Federal contracts; and
            ``(B) demonstrates that it--
                ``(i) is qualified to provide assistance that will 
            contribute to the purpose of the program;
                ``(ii) is of good financial health and character and 
            does not appear on a Federal list of debarred or suspended 
            contractors; and
                ``(iii) can impart value to a protege firm because of 
            experience gained as a Department of Defense contractor or 
            through knowledge of general business operations and 
            government contracting, as demonstrated by evidence that--

                    ``(I) during the fiscal year preceding the fiscal 
                year in which the mentor firm enters into the 
                agreement, the total amount of the Department of 
                Defense contracts awarded such mentor firm and the 
                subcontracts awarded such mentor firm under Department 
                of Defense contracts was equal to or greater than 
                $100,000,000; or
                    ``(II) the mentor firm demonstrates the capability 
                to assist in the development of protege firms, and is 
                approved by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to 
                criteria specified in the regulations prescribed 
                pursuant to subsection (k).

        ``(2) A mentor firm may not enter into an agreement with a 
    protege firm if the Administrator of the Small Business 
    Administration has made a determination finding affiliation between 
    the mentor firm and the protege firm.
        ``(3) If the Administrator of the Small Business Administration 
    has not made such a determination and if the Secretary has reason 
    to believe (based on the regulations promulgated by the 
    Administrator regarding affiliation) that the mentor firm is 
    affiliated with the protege firm, the Secretary shall request a 
    determination regarding affiliation from the Administrator of the 
    Small Business Administration.'';
        (2) in subsection (n), by amending paragraph (9) to read as 
    follows:
        ``(9) The term `affiliation', with respect to a relationship 
    between a mentor firm and a protege firm, means a relationship 
    described under section 121.103 of title 13, Code of Federal 
    Regulations (or any successor regulation).''; and
        (3) in subsection (f)(6)--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) women's business centers described in section 29 of 
        the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 656).''.

                  Subtitle D--Miscellaneous Provisions

SEC. 1831. IMPROVEMENTS TO SIZE STANDARDS FOR SMALL AGRICULTURAL 
PRODUCERS.
    (a) Amendment to Definition of Agricultural Enterprises.--Paragraph 
(1) of section 18(b) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 647(b)(1)) is 
amended by striking ``businesses'' and inserting ``small business 
concerns''.
    (b) Equal Treatment of Small Farms.--Paragraph (1) of section 3(a) 
of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(1)) is amended by striking 
``operation: Provided,'' and all that follows through the period at the 
end and inserting ``operation.''.
    (c) Updated Size Standards.--Size standards established for 
agricultural enterprises under section 3(a) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 632(a)) shall be subject to the rolling review procedures 
established under section 1344(a) of the Small Business Jobs Act of 
2010 (15 U.S.C. 632 note).
SEC. 1832. UNIFORMITY IN SERVICE-DISABLED VETERAN DEFINITIONS.
    (a) Small Business Definition of Small Business Concern 
Consolidated.--Section 3(q) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
632(q)) is amended--
        (1) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) Small business concern owned and controlled by service-
    disabled veterans.--The term `small business concern owned and 
    controlled by service-disabled veterans' means any of the 
    following:
            ``(A) A small business concern--
                ``(i) not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one 
            or more service-disabled veterans or, in the case of any 
            publicly owned business, not less than 51 percent of the 
            stock (not including any stock owned by an ESOP) of which 
            is owned by one or more service-disabled veterans; and
                ``(ii) the management and daily business operations of 
            which are controlled by one or more service-disabled 
            veterans or, in the case of a veteran with permanent and 
            severe disability, the spouse or permanent caregiver of 
            such veteran.
            ``(B) A small business concern--
                ``(i) not less than 51 percent of which is owned by one 
            or more service-disabled veterans with a disability that is 
            rated by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs as a permanent 
            and total disability who are unable to manage the daily 
            business operations of such concern; or
                ``(ii) in the case of a publicly owned business, not 
            less than 51 percent of the stock (not including any stock 
            owned by an ESOP) of which is owned by one or more such 
            veterans.
            ``(C)(i) During the time period described in clause (ii), a 
        small business concern that was a small business concern 
        described in subparagraph (A) or (B) immediately prior to the 
        death of a service-disabled veteran who was the owner of the 
        concern, the death of whom causes the concern to be less than 
        51 percent owned by one or more service-disabled veterans, if--
                ``(I) the surviving spouse of the deceased veteran 
            acquires such veteran's ownership interest in such concern;
                ``(II) such veteran had a service-connected disability 
            (as defined in section 101(16) of title 38, United States 
            Code) rated as 100 percent disabling under the laws 
            administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs or such 
            veteran died as a result of a service-connected disability; 
            and
                ``(III) immediately prior to the death of such veteran, 
            and during the period described in clause (ii), the small 
            business concern is included in the database described in 
            section 8127(f) of title 38, United States Code.
            ``(ii) The time period described in this clause is the time 
        period beginning on the date of the veteran's death and ending 
        on the earlier of--
                ``(I) the date on which the surviving spouse remarries;
                ``(II) the date on which the surviving spouse 
            relinquishes an ownership interest in the small business 
            concern; or
                ``(III) the date that is 10 years after the date of the 
            death of the veteran.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(6) ESOP.--The term `ESOP' has the meaning given the term 
    `employee stock ownership plan' in section 4975(e)(7) of the 
    Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (26 U.S.C. 4975(e)(7)).
        ``(7) Surviving spouse.--The term `surviving spouse' has the 
    meaning given such term in section 101(3) of title 38, United 
    States Code.''.
    (b) Veterans Affairs Definition of Small Business Concern 
Consolidated.--
        (1) In general.--Section 8127 of title 38, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (h) and redesignating 
        subsections (i) through (l) as subsections (h) through (k), 
        respectively; and
            (B) in subsection (k), as so redesignated--
                (i) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) The term `small business concern owned and controlled by 
    veterans' has the meaning given that term under section 3(q)(3) of 
    the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(q)(3)).''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) The term `small business concern owned and controlled by 
    veterans with service-connected disabilities' has the meaning given 
    the term `small business concern owned and controlled by service-
    disabled veterans' under section 3(q)(2) of the Small Business Act 
    (15 U.S.C. 632(q)(2)).''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--Such section is further amended--
            (A) in subsection (b), by inserting ``or a small business 
        concern owned and controlled by veterans with service-connected 
        disabilities'' after ``a small business concern owned and 
        controlled by veterans'';
            (B) in subsection (c), by inserting ``or a small business 
        concern owned and controlled by veterans with service-connected 
        disabilities'' after ``a small business concern owned and 
        controlled by veterans'';
            (C) in subsection (d) by inserting ``or small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by veterans with service-
        connected disabilities'' after ``small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by veterans'' both places it appears; and
            (D) in subsection (f)(1), by inserting ``, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by veterans with service-
        connected disabilities,'' after ``small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by veterans''.
    (c) Technical Correction.--Section 8(d)(3) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
        ``(H) In this contract, the term `small business concern owned 
    and controlled by service-disabled veterans' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 3(q).''.
    (d) Regulations Relating to Database of the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs.--
        (1) Requirement to use certain small business administration 
    regulations.--Section 8127(f)(4) of title 38, United States Code, 
    is amended by striking ``verified'' and inserting ``verified, using 
    regulations issued by the Administrator of the Small Business 
    Administration with respect to the status of the concern as a small 
    business concern and the ownership and control of such concern,''.
        (2) Prohibition on secretary of veterans affairs issuing 
    certain regulations.--Section 8127(f) of title 38, United States 
    Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(7) The Secretary may not issue regulations related to the status 
of a concern as a small business concern and the ownership and control 
of such small business concern.''.
    (e) Delayed Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections 
(a), (b), (c), and (d) shall take effect on the date on which the 
Administrator of the Small Business Administration and the Secretary of 
Veterans Affairs jointly issue regulations implementing such sections.
    (f) Appeals of Inclusion in Database.--
        (1) In general.--Section 8127(f) of title 38, United States 
    Code, as amended by this section, is further amended by adding at 
    the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(8)(A) If a small business concern is not included in the 
database because the Secretary does not verify the status of the 
concern as a small business concern or the ownership or control of the 
concern, the concern may appeal the denial of verification to the 
Office of Hearings and Appeals of the Small Business Administration (as 
established under section 5(i) of the Small Business Act). The decision 
of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be considered a final 
agency action.
    ``(B)(i) If an interested party challenges the inclusion in the 
database of a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans 
or a small business concern owned and controlled by veterans with 
service-connected disabilities based on the status of the concern as a 
small business concern or the ownership or control of the concern, the 
challenge shall be heard by the Office of Hearings and Appeals of the 
Small Business Administration as described in subparagraph (A). The 
decision of the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall be considered 
final agency action.
    ``(ii) In this subparagraph, the term `interested party' means--
        ``(I) the Secretary; or
        ``(II) in the case of a small business concern that is awarded 
    a contract, the contracting officer of the Department or another 
    small business concern that submitted an offer for the contract 
    that was awarded to the small business concern that is the subject 
    of a challenge made under clause (i).
    ``(C) For each fiscal year, the Secretary shall reimburse the 
Administrator of the Small Business Administration in an amount 
necessary to cover any cost incurred by the Office of Hearings and 
Appeals of the Small Business Administration for actions taken by the 
Office under this paragraph. The Administrator is authorized to accept 
such reimbursement. The amount of any such reimbursement shall be 
determined jointly by the Secretary and the Administrator and shall be 
provided from fees collected by the Secretary under multiple-award 
schedule contracts. Any disagreement about the amount shall be resolved 
by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget.''.
        (2) Effective date.--Paragraph (8) of subsection (f) of title 
    38, United States Code, as added by paragraph (1), shall apply with 
    respect to a verification decision made by the Secretary of 
    Veterans Affairs on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1833. OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS.
    (a) Clarification as to Jurisdiction.--Section 5(i)(1)(B) of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 634(i)(1)(B)) is amended to read as 
follows:
            ``(B) Jurisdiction.--
                ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clause (ii), 
            the Office of Hearings and Appeals shall hear appeals of 
            agency actions under or pursuant to this Act, the Small 
            Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et seq.), 
            and title 13 of the Code of Federal Regulations, and shall 
            hear such other matters as the Administrator may determine 
            appropriate.
                ``(ii) Exception.--The Office of Hearings and Appeals 
            shall not adjudicate disputes that require a hearing on the 
            record, except disputes pertaining to the small business 
            programs described in this Act.''.
    (b) New Rules or Guidance for Petitions for Reconsideration.--
Section 3(a)(9) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)(9)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) Rules or guidance.--The Office of Hearings and 
        Appeals shall begin accepting petitions for reconsideration 
        described in subparagraph (A) after the date on which the 
        Administration issues a rule or other guidance implementing 
        this paragraph. Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph 
        (B), petitions for reconsideration of size standards revised, 
        modified, or established in a Federal Register final rule 
        published between November 25, 2015, and the effective date of 
        such rule or other guidance shall be considered timely if filed 
        within 30 days of such effective date.''.
SEC. 1834. EXTENSION OF SBIR AND STTR PROGRAMS.
    (a) SBIR.--Section 9(m) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
638(m)) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2022''.
    (b) STTR.--Section 9(n)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
638(n)(1)) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting 
``fiscal year 2022''.
SEC. 1835. ISSUANCE OF GUIDANCE ON SMALL BUSINESS MATTERS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator of the Small Business Administration and the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall issue guidance pertaining to the 
amendments made by this title to the Small Business Act and section 
8127 of title 38, United States Code. The Administrator and the 
Secretary shall provide notice and opportunity for comment on such 
guidance for a period of not less than 60 days.

     Subtitle E--Improving Cyber Preparedness for Small Businesses

SEC. 1841. SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTER CYBER STRATEGY AND 
OUTREACH.
    (a) Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business 
    Administration and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall work 
    collaboratively to develop a cyber strategy for small business 
    development centers to be known as the ``Small Business Development 
    Center Cyber Strategy''.
        (2) Consultation.--In developing the strategy under this 
    subsection, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration 
    and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall consult with entities 
    representing the concerns of small business development centers, 
    including any association recognized under section 21(a)(3)(A) of 
    the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)(3)(A)).
        (3) Content.--The strategy required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, at minimum, the following:
            (A) Plans for allowing small business development centers 
        (hereinafter in this paragraph referred to as ``SBDCs'') to 
        access existing cyber programs of the Department of Homeland 
        Security and other appropriate Federal agencies to enhance 
        services and streamline cyber assistance to small business 
        concerns.
            (B) To the extent practicable, methods for providing 
        counsel and assistance to improve a small business concern's 
        cybersecurity infrastructure, awareness of cyber threat 
        indicators, and cyber training programs for employees, 
        including--
                (i) working to ensure individuals are aware of best 
            practices in the areas of cybersecurity, awareness of cyber 
            threat indicators, and cyber training;
                (ii) working with individuals to develop cost-effective 
            plans for implementing best practices in these areas;
                (iii) entering into agreements, where practical, with 
            Information Sharing and Analysis Centers or similar 
            entities that share cyber information to gain an awareness 
            of actionable cyber threat indicators that may be 
            beneficial to small business concerns; and
                (iv) providing referrals to area specialists when 
            necessary.
            (C) An analysis of--
                (i) how Federal Government programs, projects, and 
            activities can be leveraged by SBDCs to improve access to 
            high-quality cyber support for small business concerns;
                (ii) additional resources SBDCs may need to effectively 
            carry out their role; and
                (iii) how SBDCs can leverage existing partnerships and 
            develop new partnerships with Federal, State, and local 
            government entities as well as private entities to improve 
            the quality of cyber support services to small business 
            concerns.
        (4) Delivery of strategy.--Not later than 1 year after the date 
    of the enactment of this Act, the Small Business Administrator and 
    the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Committees 
    on Homeland Security and Small Business of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committees on Homeland Security and 
    Governmental Affairs and Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
    Senate the Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy 
    developed under paragraph (1).
        (5) Definitions.--In this subsection, the following definitions 
    shall apply:
            (A) Cyber threat indicator.--The term ``cyber threat 
        indicator'' has the meaning given such term in section 227(a) 
        of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 148(a)).
            (B) Small business development center.--The term ``small 
        business development center'' has the meaning given such term 
        in section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
    (b) Cybersecurity Outreach for Small Business Development 
Centers.--Section 227 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
148) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (m); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(l) Cybersecurity Outreach.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may leverage small business 
    development centers to provide assistance to small business 
    concerns by disseminating information on cyber threat indicators, 
    defense measures, cybersecurity risks, incidents, analyses, and 
    warnings to help small business concerns in developing or enhancing 
    cybersecurity infrastructure, awareness of cyber threat indicators, 
    and cyber training programs for employees.
        ``(2) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection, the terms 
    `small business concern' and `small business development center' 
    have the meaning given such terms, respectively, under section 3 of 
    the Small Business Act.''.
SEC. 1842. ROLE OF SMALL BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT CENTERS IN CYBERSECURITY 
AND PREPAREDNESS.
    Section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``and providing access to 
    business analysts who can refer small business concerns to 
    available experts:'' and inserting ``providing access to business 
    analysts who can refer small business concerns to available 
    experts; and, to the extent practicable, providing assistance in 
    furtherance of the Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy 
    developed under section 1841(a) of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017:''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)(2)--
            (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end of the following new subparagraph:
        ``(G) access to cybersecurity specialists to counsel, assist, 
    and inform small business concern clients, in furtherance of the 
    Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy developed under 
    section 1841(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2017.''.
SEC. 1843. ADDITIONAL CYBERSECURITY ASSISTANCE FOR SMALL BUSINESS 
DEVELOPMENT CENTERS.
    Section 21(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 648(a)) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(8) Cybersecurity assistance.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Department of Homeland Security, and 
        any other Federal department or agency in coordination with the 
        Department of Homeland Security, may leverage small business 
        development centers to provide assistance to small business 
        concerns by disseminating information relating to cybersecurity 
        risks and other homeland security matters to help small 
        business concerns in developing or enhancing cybersecurity 
        infrastructure, awareness of cyber threat indicators, and cyber 
        training programs for employees.
            ``(B) Definitions.--In this paragraph, the terms 
        `cybersecurity risk' and `cyber threat indicator' have the 
        meanings given such terms, respectively, under section 227(a) 
        of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 148(a)).''.
SEC. 1844. PROHIBITION ON ADDITIONAL FUNDS.
    No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
sections 1841 through 1843 or the amendments made by such sections.

        TITLE XIX--DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COORDINATION

Sec. 1901. Department of Homeland Security coordination.
Sec. 1902. Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans of the Department of 
          Homeland Security.
Sec. 1903. Management and execution.
Sec. 1904. Chief Human Capital Officer of the Department of Homeland 
          Security.
Sec. 1905. Department of Homeland Security transparency.
Sec. 1906. Transparency in research and development.
Sec. 1907. United States Government review of certain foreign fighters.
Sec. 1908. National strategy to combat terrorist travel.
Sec. 1909. National Operations Center.
Sec. 1910. Department of Homeland Security strategy for international 
          programs.
Sec. 1911. State and high-risk urban area working groups.
Sec. 1912. Cybersecurity strategy for the Department of Homeland 
          Security.
Sec. 1913. EMP and GMD planning, research and development, and 
          protection and preparedness.
SEC. 1901. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY COORDINATION.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (d) of section 103 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 113) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(5) Any Director of a Joint Task Force under section 708.''.
    (b) Joint Task Forces.--Title VII of the Homeland Security Act of 
2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
    ``SEC. 708. JOINT TASK FORCES.
    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `situational 
awareness' means knowledge and unified understanding of unlawful cross-
border activity, including--
        ``(1) threats and trends concerning illicit trafficking and 
    unlawful crossings;
        ``(2) the ability to forecast future shifts in such threats and 
    trends;
        ``(3) the ability to evaluate such threats and trends at a 
    level sufficient to create actionable plans; and
        ``(4) the operational capability to conduct continuous and 
    integrated surveillance of the air, land, and maritime borders of 
    the United States.
    ``(b) Joint Task Forces.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--The Secretary may establish and operate 
    departmental Joint Task Forces to conduct joint operations using 
    personnel and capabilities of the Department for the purposes 
    specified in paragraph (2).
        ``(2) Purposes.--
            ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
        purposes referred to in paragraph (1) are or relate to the 
        following:
                ``(i) Securing the land and maritime borders of the 
            United States.
                ``(ii) Homeland security crises.
                ``(iii) Establishing regionally-based operations.
            ``(B) Limitation.--
                ``(i) In general.--The Secretary may not establish a 
            Joint Task Force for any major disaster or emergency 
            declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
            Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.) or an 
            incident for which the Federal Emergency Management Agency 
            has primary responsibility for management of the response 
            under title V of this Act, including section 504(a)(3)(A), 
            unless the responsibilities of such a Joint Task Force--

                    ``(I) do not include operational functions related 
                to incident management, including coordination of 
                operations; and
                    ``(II) are consistent with the requirements of 
                paragraphs (3) and (4)(A) of section 503(c) and section 
                509(c) of this Act, and section 302 of the Robert T. 
                Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 5143).

                ``(ii) Responsibilities and functions not reduced.--
            Nothing in this section may be construed to reduce the 
            responsibilities or functions of the Federal Emergency 
            Management Agency or the Administrator of the Agency under 
            title V of this Act or any other provision of law, 
            including the diversion of any asset, function, or mission 
            from the Agency or the Administrator of the Agency pursuant 
            to section 506.
        ``(3) Joint task force directors.--
            ``(A) Director.--Each Joint Task Force established and 
        operated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be headed by a 
        Director, appointed by the President, for a term of not more 
        than two years. The Secretary shall submit to the President 
        recommendations for such appointments after consulting with the 
        heads of the components of the Department with membership on 
        any such Joint Task Force. Any Director appointed by the 
        President shall be--
                ``(i) a current senior official of the Department with 
            not less than one year of significant leadership experience 
            at the Department; or
                ``(ii) if no suitable candidate is available at the 
            Department, an individual with--

                    ``(I) not less than one year of significant 
                leadership experience in a Federal agency since the 
                establishment of the Department; and
                    ``(II) a demonstrated ability in, knowledge of, and 
                significant experience working on the issues to be 
                addressed by any such Joint Task Force.

            ``(B) Extension.--The Secretary may extend the appointment 
        of a Director of a Joint Task Force under subparagraph (A) for 
        not more than two years if the Secretary determines that such 
        an extension is in the best interest of the Department.
        ``(4) Joint task force deputy directors.--For each Joint Task 
    Force, the Secretary shall appoint a Deputy Director who shall be 
    an official of a different component or office of the Department 
    than the Director of such Joint Task Force.
        ``(5) Responsibilities.--The Director of a Joint Task Force, 
    subject to the oversight, direction, and guidance of the Secretary, 
    shall--
            ``(A) when established for the purpose referred to in 
        paragraph (2)(A)(i), maintain situational awareness within the 
        areas of responsibility of the Joint Task Force, as determined 
        by the Secretary;
            ``(B) provide operational plans and requirements for 
        standard operating procedures and contingency operations within 
        the areas of responsibility of the Joint Task Force, as 
        determined by the Secretary;
            ``(C) plan and execute joint task force activities within 
        the areas of responsibility of the Joint Task Force, as 
        determined by the Secretary;
            ``(D) set and accomplish strategic objectives through 
        integrated operational planning and execution;
            ``(E) exercise operational direction over personnel and 
        equipment from components and offices of the Department 
        allocated to the Joint Task Force to accomplish the objectives 
        of the Joint Task Force;
            ``(F) when established for the purpose referred to in 
        paragraph (2)(A)(i), establish operational and investigative 
        priorities within the areas of responsibility of the Joint Task 
        Force, as determined by the Secretary;
            ``(G) coordinate with foreign governments and other 
        Federal, State, and local agencies, as appropriate, to carry 
        out the mission of the Joint Task Force; and
            ``(H) carry out other duties and powers the Secretary 
        determines appropriate.
        ``(6) Personnel and resources.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may, upon request of the 
        Director of a Joint Task Force, and giving appropriate 
        consideration of risk to the other primary missions of the 
        Department, allocate to such Joint Task Force on a temporary 
        basis personnel and equipment of components and offices of the 
        Department.
            ``(B) Cost neutrality.--A Joint Task Force may not require 
        more resources than would have otherwise been required by the 
        Department to carry out the duties assigned to such Joint Task 
        Force if such Joint Task Force had not been established.
            ``(C) Location of operations.--In establishing a location 
        of operations for a Joint Task Force, the Secretary shall, to 
        the extent practicable, use existing facilities that integrate 
        efforts of components of the Department and State, local, 
        tribal, or territorial law enforcement or military entities.
            ``(D) Consideration of impact.--When reviewing requests for 
        allocation of component personnel and equipment under 
        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall consider the impact of 
        such allocation on the ability of the donating component or 
        office to carry out the primary missions of the Department, and 
        in the case of the Coast Guard, the missions specified in 
        section 888.
            ``(E) Limitation.--Personnel and equipment of the Coast 
        Guard allocated under this paragraph may be used only to carry 
        out operations and investigations related to the missions 
        specified in section 888.
            ``(F) Report.--The Secretary shall, at the time the budget 
        of the President is submitted to Congress for a fiscal year 
        under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, submit 
        to the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation of the Senate a report on the total funding, 
        personnel, and other resources that each component or office of 
        the Department allocated under this paragraph to each Joint 
        Task Force to carry out the mission of such Joint Task Force 
        during the fiscal year immediately preceding each such report, 
        and a description of the degree to which the resources drawn 
        from each component or office impact the primary mission of 
        such component or office.
        ``(7) Component resource authority.--As directed by the 
    Secretary--
            ``(A) each Director of a Joint Task Force shall be provided 
        sufficient resources from relevant components and offices of 
        the Department and the authority necessary to carry out the 
        missions and responsibilities of such Joint Task Force required 
        under this section;
            ``(B) the resources referred to in subparagraph (A) shall 
        be under the operational authority, direction, and control of 
        the Director of the Joint Task Force to which such resources 
        are assigned; and
            ``(C) the personnel and equipment of each Joint Task Force 
        shall remain under the administrative direction of the head of 
        the component or office of the Department that provided such 
        personnel or equipment.
        ``(8) Joint task force staff.--Each Joint Task Force shall have 
    a staff, composed of officials from relevant components and offices 
    of the Department, to assist the Director of such Joint Task Force 
    in carrying out the mission and responsibilities of such Joint Task 
    Force.
        ``(9) Establishment of performance metrics.--The Secretary 
    shall--
            ``(A) establish outcome-based and other appropriate 
        performance metrics to evaluate the effectiveness of each Joint 
        Task Force;
            ``(B) not later than 120 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this section and 120 days after the establishment 
        of a new Joint Task Force, as appropriate, submit to the 
        Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation of the Senate the metrics established under 
        subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) not later than January 31 of each year beginning in 
        2017, submit to each committee specified in subparagraph (B) a 
        report that contains the evaluation described in subparagraph 
        (A).
        ``(10) Joint duty training program.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall--
                ``(i) establish a joint duty training program in the 
            Department for the purposes of--

                    ``(I) enhancing coordination within the Department; 
                and
                    ``(II) promoting workforce professional 
                development; and

                ``(ii) tailor such joint duty training program to 
            improve joint operations as part of the Joint Task Forces.
            ``(B) Elements.--The joint duty training program 
        established under subparagraph (A) shall address, at a minimum, 
        the following topics:
                ``(i) National security strategy.
                ``(ii) Strategic and contingency planning.
                ``(iii) Command and control of operations under joint 
            command.
                ``(iv) International engagement.
                ``(v) The homeland security enterprise.
                ``(vi) Interagency collaboration.
                ``(vii) Leadership.
                ``(viii) Specific subject matters relevant to the Joint 
            Task Force, including matters relating to the missions 
            specified in section 888, to which the joint duty training 
            program is assigned.
            ``(C) Training required.--
                ``(i) Directors and deputy directors.--Except as 
            provided in clauses (iii) and (iv), an individual shall 
            complete the joint duty training program before being 
            appointed Director or Deputy Director of a Joint Task 
            Force.
                ``(ii) Joint task force staff.--Each official serving 
            on the staff of a Joint Task Force shall complete the joint 
            duty training program within the first year of assignment 
            to such Joint Task Force.
                ``(iii) Exception.--Clause (i) shall not apply to the 
            first Director or Deputy Director appointed to a Joint Task 
            Force on or after the date of the enactment of this 
            section.
                ``(iv) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application 
            of clause (i) if the Secretary determines that such a 
            waiver is in the interest of homeland security or necessary 
            to carry out the mission for which a Joint Task Force was 
            established.
        ``(11) Notification of joint task force formation.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than 90 days before 
        establishing a Joint Task Force under this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the majority leader of the Senate, 
        the minority leader of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives, the majority leader of the House of 
        Representatives, the minority leader of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation of the Senate a notification regarding such 
        establishment.
            ``(B) Waiver authority.--The Secretary may waive the 
        requirement under subparagraph (A) in the event of an emergency 
        circumstance that imminently threatens the protection of human 
        life or property.
        ``(12) Review.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than January 31, 2018, and 
        January 31, 2021, the Inspector General of the Department shall 
        submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee 
        on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
        and Transportation of the Senate a review of the Joint Task 
        Forces established under this subsection.
            ``(B) Contents.--The reviews required under subparagraph 
        (A) shall include--
                ``(i) an assessment of the effectiveness of the 
            structure of each Joint Task Force; and
                ``(ii) recommendations for enhancements to such 
            structure to strengthen the effectiveness of each Joint 
            Task Force.
        ``(13) Sunset.--This section expires on September 30, 2022.
    ``(c) Joint Duty Assignment Program.--After establishing the joint 
duty training program under subsection (b)(10), the Secretary shall 
establish a joint duty assignment program within the Department for the 
purposes of enhancing coordination in the Department and promoting 
workforce professional development.''.
    (c) Transition.--An individual serving as a Director of a Joint 
Task Force of the Department of Homeland Security in existence on the 
day before the date of the enactment of this section may serve as the 
Director of such Joint Task Force on and after such date of enactment 
until a Director of such Joint Task Force is appointed pursuant to 
subparagraph (A) of section 708(b)(3), as added by subsection (a) of 
this section.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--The Homeland Security Act of 2002 is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (c) of section 506 (6 U.S.C. 316)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``, including through a 
        Joint Task Force established under section 708,'' after 
        ``reduce''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``including a Joint Task 
        Force established under section 708,'' after ``Department,''; 
        and
        (2) in paragraph (2) of section 509(c) (6 U.S.C. 319)--
            (A) in the paragraph heading, by inserting ``; joint task 
        force'' after ``Official''; and
            (B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting 
        ``or Director of a Joint Task Force established under section 
        708'' before ``shall''.
    (e) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 707 the following new item:

``Sec. 708. Joint Task Forces.''.
SEC. 1902. OFFICE OF STRATEGY, POLICY, AND PLANS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
HOMELAND SECURITY.
    (a) Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans.--Title VII of the 
Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341 et seq.), as amended by 
section 1901 of this title, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
    ``SEC. 709. OFFICE OF STRATEGY, POLICY, AND PLANS.
    ``(a) In General.--There is established in the Department an Office 
of Strategy, Policy, and Plans.
    ``(b) Head of Office.--The Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans 
shall be headed by an Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans, 
who shall serve as the principal policy advisor to the Secretary. The 
Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans shall be appointed by 
the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(c) Functions.--The Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and 
Plans shall--
        ``(1) lead, conduct, and coordinate Department-wide policy 
    development and implementation and strategic planning;
        ``(2) develop and coordinate policies to promote and ensure 
    quality, consistency, and integration for the programs, components, 
    offices, and activities across the Department;
        ``(3) develop and coordinate strategic plans and long-term 
    goals of the Department with risk-based analysis and planning to 
    improve operational mission effectiveness, including consultation 
    with the Secretary regarding the quadrennial homeland security 
    review under section 707;
        ``(4) manage Department leadership councils and provide 
    analytics and support to such councils;
        ``(5) manage international coordination and engagement for the 
    Department;
        ``(6) review and incorporate, as appropriate, external 
    stakeholder feedback into Department policy; and
        ``(7) carry out such other responsibilities as the Secretary 
    determines appropriate.
    ``(d) Deputy Under Secretary.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may--
            ``(A) establish within the Office of Strategy, Policy, and 
        Plans a position of Deputy Under Secretary to support the Under 
        Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans in carrying out the 
        Under Secretary's responsibilities; and
            ``(B) appoint a career employee to such position.
        ``(2) Limitation on establishment of deputy under secretary 
    positions.--A Deputy Under Secretary position (or any substantially 
    similar position) within the Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans 
    may not be established except for the position provided for by 
    paragraph (1), unless the Secretary receives prior authorization 
    from Congress.
        ``(3) Definitions.--For purposes of paragraph (1)--
            ``(A) the term `career employee' means any employee (as 
        such term is defined in section 2105 of title 5, United States 
        Code), but does not include a political appointee; and
            ``(B) the term `political appointee' means any employee who 
        occupies a position which has been excepted from the 
        competitive service by reason of its confidential, policy-
        determining, policy-making, or policy-advocating character.
    ``(e) Coordination by Department Components.--To ensure consistency 
with the policy priorities of the Department, the head of each 
component of the Department shall coordinate with the Office of 
Strategy, Policy, and Plans in establishing or modifying policies or 
strategic planning guidance with respect to each such component.
    ``(f) Homeland Security Statistics and Joint Analysis.--
        ``(1) Homeland security statistics.--The Under Secretary for 
    Strategy, Policy, and Plans shall--
            ``(A) establish standards of reliability and validity for 
        statistical data collected and analyzed by the Department;
            ``(B) be provided by the heads of all components of the 
        Department with statistical data maintained by the Department 
        regarding the operations of the Department;
            ``(C) conduct or oversee analysis and reporting of such 
        data by the Department as required by law or as directed by the 
        Secretary; and
            ``(D) ensure the accuracy of metrics and statistical data 
        provided to Congress.
        ``(2) Transfer of responsibilities.--There shall be transferred 
    to the Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans the 
    maintenance of all immigration statistical information of U.S. 
    Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Immigration and Customs 
    Enforcement, and United States Citizenship and Immigration 
    Services, which shall include information and statistics of the 
    type contained in the publication entitled `Yearbook of Immigration 
    Statistics' prepared by the Office of Immigration Statistics, 
    including region-by-region statistics on the aggregate number of 
    applications and petitions filed by an alien (or filed on behalf of 
    an alien) and denied, and the reasons for such denials, 
    disaggregated by category of denial and application or petition 
    type.
    ``(g) Limitation.--Nothing in this section overrides or otherwise 
affects the requirements specified in section 888.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of section 707(a)(3) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 347(a)(3)) is amended by 
inserting before the semicolon the following: ``, including the Under 
Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and Plans''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 , as amended by section 1901 of this 
title, is further amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 708 the following new item:

``Sec. 709. Office of Strategy, Policy, and Plans.''.
SEC. 1903. MANAGEMENT AND EXECUTION.
    (a) In General.--Section 103 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 113) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (F), by inserting before the period at 
        the end the following: ``, who shall be first assistant to the 
        Deputy Secretary of Homeland Security for purposes of 
        subchapter III of chapter 33 of title 5, United States Code''; 
        and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(K) An Under Secretary for Strategy, Policy, and 
        Plans.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Vacancies.--
        ``(1) Absence, disability, or vacancy of secretary or deputy 
    secretary.--Notwithstanding chapter 33 of title 5, United States 
    Code, the Under Secretary for Management shall serve as the Acting 
    Secretary if by reason of absence, disability, or vacancy in 
    office, neither the Secretary nor Deputy Secretary is available to 
    exercise the duties of the Office of the Secretary.
        ``(2) Further order of succession.--Notwithstanding chapter 33 
    of title 5, United States Code, the Secretary may designate such 
    other officers of the Department in further order of succession to 
    serve as Acting Secretary.
        ``(3) Notification of vacancies.--The Secretary shall notify 
    the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
    Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
    Representatives of any vacancies that require notification under 
    sections 3345 through 3349d of title 5, United States Code 
    (commonly known as the `Federal Vacancies Reform Act of 1998').''.
    (b) Under Secretary for Management.--Section 701 of the Homeland 
Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 341) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking paragraph (9) and inserting the following:
        ``(9) The management integration and transformation within each 
    functional management discipline of the Department, including 
    information technology, financial management, acquisition 
    management, and human capital management, to ensure an efficient 
    and orderly consolidation of functions and personnel in the 
    Department, including--
            ``(A) the development of centralized data sources and 
        connectivity of information systems to the greatest extent 
        practicable to enhance program visibility, transparency, and 
        operational effectiveness and coordination;
            ``(B) the development of standardized and automated 
        management information to manage and oversee programs and make 
        informed decisions to improve the efficiency of the Department;
            ``(C) the development of effective program management and 
        regular oversight mechanisms, including clear roles and 
        processes for program governance, sharing of best practices, 
        and access to timely, reliable, and evaluated data on all 
        acquisitions and investments; and
            ``(D) the overall supervision, including the conduct of 
        internal audits and management analyses, of the programs and 
        activities of the Department, including establishment of 
        oversight procedures to ensure a full and effective review of 
        the efforts by components of the Department to implement 
        policies and procedures of the Department for management 
        integration and transformation.'';
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (10) and (11) as paragraphs 
        (12) and (13), respectively; and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following:
        ``(10) The development of a transition and succession plan, 
    before December 1 of each year in which a Presidential election is 
    held, to guide the transition of Department functions to a new 
    Presidential administration, and making such plan available to the 
    next Secretary and Under Secretary for Management and to the 
    congressional homeland security committees.
        ``(11) Reporting to the Government Accountability Office every 
    six months to demonstrate measurable, sustainable progress made in 
    implementing the corrective action plans of the Department to 
    address the designation of the management functions of the 
    Department on the bi-annual high risk list of the Government 
    Accountability Office, until the Comptroller General of the United 
    States submits to the appropriate congressional committees written 
    notification of removal of the high-risk designation.'';
        (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Waivers for Conducting Business With Suspended or Debarred 
Contractors.--Not later than five days after the date on which the 
Chief Procurement Officer or Chief Financial Officer of the Department 
issues a waiver of the requirement that an agency not engage in 
business with a contractor or other recipient of funds listed as a 
party suspended or debarred from receiving contracts, grants, or other 
types of Federal assistance in the System for Award Management 
maintained by the General Services Administration, or any successor 
thereto, the Under Secretary for Management shall submit to the 
congressional homeland security committees and the Inspector General of 
the Department notice of the waiver and an explanation of the finding 
by the Under Secretary that a compelling reason exists for the 
waiver.'';
        (3) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
        (4) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) System for Award Management Consultation.--The Under 
Secretary for Management shall require that all Department contracting 
and grant officials consult the System for Award Management (or 
successor system) as maintained by the General Services Administration 
prior to awarding a contract or grant or entering into other 
transactions to ascertain whether the selected contractor is excluded 
from receiving Federal contracts, certain subcontracts, and certain 
types of Federal financial and non-financial assistance and 
benefits.''.
SEC. 1904. CHIEF HUMAN CAPITAL OFFICER OF THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND 
SECURITY.
    Section 704 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 344) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``SEC. 704. CHIEF HUMAN CAPITAL OFFICER.
    ``(a) In General.--The Chief Human Capital Officer shall report 
directly to the Under Secretary for Management.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--In addition to the responsibilities set 
forth in chapter 14 of title 5, United States Code, and other 
applicable law, the Chief Human Capital Officer of the Department 
shall--
        ``(1) develop and implement strategic workforce planning 
    policies that are consistent with Government-wide leading 
    principles and in line with Department strategic human capital 
    goals and priorities, taking into account the special requirements 
    of members of the Armed Forces serving in the Coast Guard;
        ``(2) develop performance measures to provide a basis for 
    monitoring and evaluating Department-wide strategic workforce 
    planning efforts;
        ``(3) develop, improve, and implement policies, including 
    compensation flexibilities available to Federal agencies where 
    appropriate, to recruit, hire, train, and retain the workforce of 
    the Department, in coordination with all components of the 
    Department;
        ``(4) identify methods for managing and overseeing human 
    capital programs and initiatives, in coordination with the head of 
    each component of the Department;
        ``(5) develop a career path framework and create opportunities 
    for leader development in coordination with all components of the 
    Department;
        ``(6) lead the efforts of the Department for managing employee 
    resources, including training and development opportunities, in 
    coordination with each component of the Department;
        ``(7) work to ensure the Department is implementing human 
    capital programs and initiatives and effectively educating each 
    component of the Department about these programs and initiatives;
        ``(8) identify and eliminate unnecessary and duplicative human 
    capital policies and guidance;
        ``(9) provide input concerning the hiring and performance of 
    the Chief Human Capital Officer or comparable official in each 
    component of the Department; and
        ``(10) ensure that all employees of the Department are informed 
    of their rights and remedies under chapters 12 and 23 of title 5, 
    United States Code.
    ``(c) Component Strategies.--
        ``(1) In general.--Each component of the Department shall, in 
    coordination with the Chief Human Capital Officer of the 
    Department, develop a 5-year workforce strategy for the component 
    that will support the goals, objectives, and performance measures 
    of the Department for determining the proper balance of Federal 
    employees and private labor resources.
        ``(2) Strategy requirements.--In developing the strategy 
    required under paragraph (1), each component shall consider the 
    effect on human resources associated with creating additional 
    Federal full-time equivalent positions, converting private 
    contractors to Federal employees, or relying on the private sector 
    for goods and services.
    ``(d) Annual Submission.--Not later than 90 days after the date on 
which the Secretary submits the annual budget justification for the 
Department, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional homeland 
security committees a report that includes a table, delineated by 
component with actual and enacted amounts, including--
        ``(1) information on the progress within the Department of 
    fulfilling the workforce strategies developed under subsection (c);
        ``(2) the number of on-board staffing for Federal employees 
    from the prior fiscal year;
        ``(3) the total contract hours submitted by each prime 
    contractor as part of the service contract inventory required under 
    section 743 of the Financial Services and General Government 
    Appropriations Act, 2010 (division C of Public Law 111-117; 31 
    U.S.C. 501 note); and
        ``(4) the number of full-time equivalent personnel identified 
    under the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970 (42 U.S.C. 4701 
    et seq.).
    ``(e) Limitation.--Nothing in this section overrides or otherwise 
affects the requirements specified in section 888.''.
SEC. 1905. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY TRANSPARENCY.
    (a) Feasibility Study.--The Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency shall initiate a study to determine the feasibility 
of gathering data and providing information to Congress on the use of 
Federal grant awards, for expenditures of more than $5,000, by entities 
that receive a Federal grant award under the Urban Area Security 
Initiative and the State Homeland Security Grant Program under sections 
2003 and 2004 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 604 and 
605), respectively.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency 
Management Agency shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs a report on the results of the study required 
under subsection (a).
SEC. 1906. TRANSPARENCY IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) In General.--Title III of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 181 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
    ``SEC. 319. TRANSPARENCY IN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
    ``(a) Requirement to List Research and Development Programs.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall maintain a detailed list 
    of the following:
            ``(A) Each classified and unclassified research and 
        development project, and all appropriate details for each such 
        project, including the component of the Department responsible 
        for each such project.
            ``(B) Each task order for a Federally Funded Research and 
        Development Center not associated with a research and 
        development project.
            ``(C) Each task order for a University-based center of 
        excellence not associated with a research and development 
        project.
            ``(D) The indicators developed and tracked by the Under 
        Secretary for Science and Technology with respect to 
        transitioned projects pursuant to subsection (c).
        ``(2) Exception for certain completed projects.--Paragraph (1) 
    shall not apply to a project completed or otherwise terminated 
    before the date of the enactment of this section.
        ``(3) Updates.--The list required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    updated as frequently as possible, but not less frequently than 
    once per quarter.
        ``(4) Research and development defined.--For purposes of the 
    list required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall provide a 
    definition for the term `research and development'.
    ``(b) Requirement to Report to Congress on All Projects.--Not later 
than January 1, 2017, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall 
submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs of the Senate a classified and unclassified report, as 
applicable, that lists each ongoing classified and unclassified project 
at the Department, including all appropriate details of each such 
project.
    ``(c) Indicators of Success of Transitioned Projects.--
        ``(1) In general.--For each project that has been transitioned 
    to practice from research and development, the Under Secretary for 
    Science and Technology shall develop and track indicators to 
    demonstrate the uptake of the technology or project among customers 
    or end-users.
        ``(2) Requirement.--To the fullest extent possible, the 
    tracking of a project required under paragraph (1) shall continue 
    for the three-year period beginning on the date on which such 
    project was transitioned to practice from research and development.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) All appropriate details.--The term `all appropriate 
    details' means, with respect to a research and development 
    project--
            ``(A) the name of such project, including both classified 
        and unclassified names if applicable;
            ``(B) the name of the component of the Department carrying 
        out such project;
            ``(C) an abstract or summary of such project;
            ``(D) funding levels for such project;
            ``(E) project duration or timeline;
            ``(F) the name of each contractor, grantee, or cooperative 
        agreement partner involved in such project;
            ``(G) expected objectives and milestones for such project; 
        and
            ``(H) to the maximum extent practicable, relevant 
        literature and patents that are associated with such project.
        ``(2) Classified.--The term `classified' means anything 
    containing--
            ``(A) classified national security information as defined 
        in section 6.1 of Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 note) 
        or any successor order;
            ``(B) Restricted Data or data that was formerly Restricted 
        Data, as defined in section 11y. of the Atomic Energy Act of 
        1954 (42 U.S.C. 2014(y));
            ``(C) material classified at the Sensitive Compartmented 
        Information (SCI) level, as defined in section 309 of the 
        Intelligence Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (50 U.S.C. 
        3345); or
            ``(D) information relating to a special access program, as 
        defined in section 6.1 of Executive Order 13526 (50 U.S.C. 3161 
        note) or any successor order.
        ``(3) Controlled unclassified information.--The term 
    `controlled unclassified information' means information described 
    as `Controlled Unclassified Information' under Executive Order 
    13556 (50 U.S.C. 3501 note) or any successor order.
        ``(4) Project.--The term `project' means a research or 
    development project, program, or activity administered by the 
    Department, whether ongoing, completed, or otherwise terminated.
    ``(e) Limitation.--Nothing in this section overrides or otherwise 
affects the requirements specified in section 888.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 318 the following new item:

``Sec. 319. Transparency in research and development.''.
SEC. 1907. UNITED STATES GOVERNMENT REVIEW OF CERTAIN FOREIGN FIGHTERS.
    (a) Review.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the President shall initiate a review of known instances 
since 2011 in which a person has traveled or attempted to travel to a 
conflict zone in Iraq or Syria from the United States to join or 
provide material support or resources to a terrorist organization.
    (b) Scope of Review.--The review under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) include relevant unclassified and classified information 
    held by the United States Government related to each instance 
    described in subsection (a);
        (2) ascertain which factors, including operational issues, 
    security vulnerabilities, systemic challenges, or other issues, 
    which may have undermined efforts to prevent the travel of persons 
    described in subsection (a) to a conflict zone in Iraq or Syria 
    from the United States, including issues related to the timely 
    identification of suspects, information sharing, intervention, and 
    interdiction; and
        (3) identify lessons learned and areas that can be improved to 
    prevent additional travel by persons described in subsection (a) to 
    a conflict zone in Iraq or Syria, or other terrorist safe haven 
    abroad, to join or provide material support or resources to a 
    terrorist organization.
    (c) Information Sharing.--The President shall direct the heads of 
relevant Federal agencies to provide the appropriate information that 
may be necessary to complete the review required under this section.
    (d) Submission to Congress.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the President, consistent with the 
protection of classified information, shall submit a report to the 
majority leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the Senate, the 
Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the 
House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House of 
Representatives, and the appropriate congressional committees that 
includes the results of the review required under this section, 
including information on travel routes of greatest concern, as 
appropriate.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate;
            (C) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
            (D) the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate;
            (E) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
            (F) the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of 
        the Senate;
            (G) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
            (H) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (I) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives;
            (J) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (K) the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (L) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (M) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (N) the Committee on Financial Services of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Material support or resources.--The term ``material support 
    or resources'' has the meaning given such term in section 2339A of 
    title 18, United States Code.
SEC. 1908. NATIONAL STRATEGY TO COMBAT TERRORIST TRAVEL.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that it should 
be the policy of the United States to--
        (1) continue to regularly assess the evolving terrorist threat 
    to the United States;
        (2) catalog existing Federal Government efforts to obstruct 
    terrorist and foreign fighter travel into, out of, and within the 
    United States, and overseas;
        (3) identify such efforts that may benefit from reform or 
    consolidation, or require elimination;
        (4) identify potential security vulnerabilities in United 
    States defenses against terrorist travel; and
        (5) prioritize resources to address any such security 
    vulnerabilities in a risk-based manner.
    (b) National Strategy and Updates.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the majority 
    leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the Senate, the 
    Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the 
    House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House of 
    Representatives, and the appropriate congressional committees a 
    national strategy to combat terrorist travel. The strategy shall 
    address efforts to intercept terrorists and foreign fighters and 
    constrain the domestic and international travel of such persons. 
    Consistent with the protection of classified information, the 
    strategy shall be submitted in unclassified form, including, as 
    appropriate, a classified annex.
        (2) Updated strategies.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
    on which a new President is inaugurated, the President shall submit 
    to the majority leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the 
    Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority 
    leader of the House of Representatives, the minority leader of the 
    House of Representatives, and the appropriate congressional 
    committees an updated version of the strategy described in 
    paragraph (1).
        (3) Contents.--The strategy and updates required under this 
    subsection shall--
            (A) include an accounting and description of all Federal 
        Government programs, projects, and activities designed to 
        constrain domestic and international travel by terrorists and 
        foreign fighters;
            (B) identify specific security vulnerabilities within the 
        United States and outside of the United States that may be 
        exploited by terrorists and foreign fighters;
            (C) delineate goals for--
                (i) closing the security vulnerabilities identified 
            under subparagraph (B); and
                (ii) enhancing the ability of the Federal Government to 
            constrain domestic and international travel by terrorists 
            and foreign fighters; and
            (D) describe the actions that will be taken to achieve the 
        goals delineated under subparagraph (C) and the means needed to 
        carry out such actions, including--
                (i) steps to reform, improve, and streamline existing 
            Federal Government efforts to align with the current threat 
            environment;
                (ii) new programs, projects, or activities that are 
            requested, under development, or undergoing implementation;
                (iii) new authorities or changes in existing 
            authorities needed from Congress;
                (iv) specific budget adjustments being requested to 
            enhance United States security in a risk-based manner; and
                (v) the Federal departments and agencies responsible 
            for the specific actions described in this subparagraph.
        (4) Sunset.--The requirement to submit updated national 
    strategies under this subsection shall terminate on the date that 
    is seven years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Development of Implementation Plans.--For each national 
strategy required under subsection (b), the President shall direct the 
heads of relevant Federal agencies to develop implementation plans for 
each such agency.
    (d) Implementation Plans.--
        (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the majority 
    leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the Senate, the 
    Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the 
    House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House of 
    Representatives, and the appropriate congressional committees an 
    implementation plan developed under subsection (c) with each 
    national strategy required under subsection (b). Consistent with 
    the protection of classified information, each such implementation 
    plan shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
    classified annex.
        (2) Annual updates.--The President shall submit to the majority 
    leader of the Senate, the minority leader of the Senate, the 
    Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the 
    House of Representatives, the minority leader of the House of 
    Representatives, and the appropriate congressional committees an 
    annual updated implementation plan during the ten-year period 
    beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) in the House of Representatives--
            (A) the Committee on Homeland Security;
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services;
            (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence;
            (D) the Committee on the Judiciary;
            (E) the Committee on Foreign Affairs;
            (F) the Committee on Appropriations; and
        (2) in the Senate--
            (A) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs;
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services;
            (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence;
            (D) the Committee on the Judiciary;
            (E) the Committee on Foreign Relations; and
            (F) the Committee on Appropriations.
    (f) Special Rule for Certain Receipt.--The definition under 
subsection (e) shall be treated as including the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate 
for purposes of receipt of those portions of--
        (1) the national strategy (including updates thereto), and
        (2) the implementation plan (including updates thereto),
required under this section that relate to maritime travel into and out 
of the United States.
SEC. 1909. NATIONAL OPERATIONS CENTER.
    Section 515 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 321d) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``emergency managers and decision makers'' 
        and inserting ``emergency managers, decision makers, and other 
        appropriate officials''; and
            (B) by inserting ``and steady-state activity'' before the 
        period at the end;
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) by striking ``and tribal governments'' and 
            inserting ``tribal, and territorial governments, the 
            private sector, and international partners'';
                (ii) by striking ``in the event of'' and inserting 
            ``for events, threats, and incidents involving''; and
                (iii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(3) enter into agreements with other Federal operations 
    centers and other homeland security partners, as appropriate, to 
    facilitate the sharing of information.'';
        (4) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Fire Service'' 
        and inserting ``Emergency Responder'';
            (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
        ``(1) Establishment of positions.--The Secretary shall 
    establish a position, on a rotating basis, for a representative of 
    State and local emergency responders at the National Operations 
    Center established under subsection (b) to ensure the effective 
    sharing of information between the Federal Government and State and 
    local emergency response services.'';
            (C) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (D) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
SEC. 1910. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY STRATEGY FOR INTERNATIONAL 
PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate a comprehensive three-year strategy for international programs 
of the Department of Homeland Security in which personnel and resources 
of the Department are deployed abroad for vetting and screening of 
persons seeking to enter the United States.
    (b) Contents.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) Specific Department of Homeland Security risk-based goals 
    for international programs of the Department in which personnel and 
    resources of the Department are deployed abroad for vetting and 
    screening of persons seeking to enter the United States.
        (2) A risk-based method for determining whether to establish 
    new international programs in new locations, given resource 
    constraints, or expand existing international programs of the 
    Department, in which personnel and resources of the Department are 
    deployed abroad for vetting and screening of persons seeking to 
    enter the United States.
        (3) Alignment with the highest Department-wide and Government-
    wide strategic priorities of resource allocations on international 
    programs of the Department in which personnel and resources of the 
    Department are deployed abroad for vetting and screening of persons 
    seeking to enter the United States.
        (4) A common reporting framework for the submission of 
    reliable, comparable cost data by components of the Department on 
    overseas expenditures attributable to international programs of the 
    Department in which personnel and resources of the Department are 
    deployed abroad for vetting and screening of persons seeking to 
    enter the United States.
    (c) Considerations.--In developing the strategy required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider, at a 
minimum, the following:
        (1) Information on existing operations of international 
    programs of the Department of Homeland Security in which personnel 
    and resources of the Department are deployed abroad for vetting and 
    screening of persons seeking to enter the United States that 
    includes corresponding information for each location in which each 
    such program operates.
        (2) The number of Department personnel deployed to each 
    location at which an international program referred to in 
    subparagraph (A) is in operation during the current and preceding 
    fiscal year.
        (3) Analysis of the impact of each international program 
    referred to in paragraph (1) on domestic activities of components 
    of the Department of Homeland Security.
        (4) Analysis of barriers to the expansion of an international 
    program referred to in paragraph (1).
    (d) Form.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex if 
the Secretary of Homeland Security determines that such is appropriate.
SEC. 1911. STATE AND HIGH-RISK URBAN AREA WORKING GROUPS.
    Subsection (b) of section 2021 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 611) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Planning Committees.--
        ``(1) In general.--Any State or high-risk urban area receiving 
    a grant under section 2003 or 2004 shall establish a State planning 
    committee or urban area working group to assist in preparation and 
    revision of the State, regional, or local homeland security plan or 
    the threat and hazard identification and risk assessment, as the 
    case may be, and to assist in determining effective funding 
    priorities for grants under such sections.
        ``(2) Composition.--
            ``(A) In general.--The State planning committees and urban 
        area working groups referred to in paragraph (1) shall include 
        at least one representative from each of the following 
        significant stakeholders:
                ``(i) Local or tribal government officials.
                ``(ii) Emergency response providers, which shall 
            include representatives of the fire service, law 
            enforcement, emergency medical services, and emergency 
            managers.
                ``(iii) Public health officials and other appropriate 
            medical practitioners.
                ``(iv) Individuals representing educational 
            institutions, including elementary schools, community 
            colleges, and other institutions of higher education.
                ``(v) State and regional interoperable communications 
            coordinators, as appropriate.
                ``(vi) State and major urban area fusion centers, as 
            appropriate.
            ``(B) Geographic representation.--The members of the State 
        planning committee or urban area working group, as the case may 
        be, shall be a representative group of individuals from the 
        counties, cities, towns, and Indian tribes within the State or 
        high-risk urban area, including, as appropriate, 
        representatives of rural, high-population, and high-threat 
        jurisdictions.
        ``(3) Existing planning committees.--Nothing in this subsection 
    may be construed to require that any State or high-risk urban area 
    create a State planning committee or urban area working group, as 
    the case may be, if that State or high-risk urban area has 
    established and uses a multijurisdictional planning committee or 
    commission that meets the requirements of this subsection.''.
SEC. 1912. CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY FOR THE DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND 
SECURITY.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title II of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 141 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 228 the following new section:
``SEC. 228A. CYBERSECURITY STRATEGY.
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary shall develop a departmental 
strategy to carry out cybersecurity responsibilities as set forth in 
law.
    ``(b) Contents.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        ``(1) Strategic and operational goals and priorities to 
    successfully execute the full range of the Secretary's 
    cybersecurity responsibilities.
        ``(2) Information on the programs, policies, and activities 
    that are required to successfully execute the full range of the 
    Secretary's cybersecurity responsibilities, including programs, 
    policies, and activities in furtherance of the following:
            ``(A) Cybersecurity functions set forth in the section 227 
        (relating to the national cybersecurity and communications 
        integration center).
            ``(B) Cybersecurity investigations capabilities.
            ``(C) Cybersecurity research and development.
            ``(D) Engagement with international cybersecurity partners.
    ``(c) Considerations.--In developing the strategy required under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
        ``(1) consider--
            ``(A) the cybersecurity strategy for the Homeland Security 
        Enterprise published by the Secretary in November 2011;
            ``(B) the Department of Homeland Security Fiscal Years 
        2014-2018 Strategic Plan; and
            ``(C) the most recent Quadrennial Homeland Security Review 
        issued pursuant to section 707; and
        ``(2) include information on the roles and responsibilities of 
    components and offices of the Department, to the extent 
    practicable, to carry out such strategy.
    ``(d) Implementation Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the 
development of the strategy required under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall issue an implementation plan for the strategy that 
includes the following:
        ``(1) Strategic objectives and corresponding tasks.
        ``(2) Projected timelines and costs for such tasks.
        ``(3) Metrics to evaluate performance of such tasks.
    ``(e) Congressional Oversight.--The Secretary shall submit to 
Congress for assessment the following:
        ``(1) A copy of the strategy required under subsection (a) upon 
    issuance.
        ``(2) A copy of the implementation plan required under 
    subsection (d) upon issuance, together with detailed information on 
    any associated legislative or budgetary proposals.
    ``(f) Classified Information.--The strategy required under 
subsection (a) shall be in an unclassified form but may contain a 
classified annex.
    ``(g) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed as permitting the Department to engage in monitoring, 
surveillance, exfiltration, or other collection activities for the 
purpose of tracking an individual's personally identifiable 
information.
    ``(h) Definition.--In this section, the term `Homeland Security 
Enterprise' means relevant governmental and nongovernmental entities 
involved in homeland security, including Federal, State, local, and 
tribal government officials, private sector representatives, academics, 
and other policy experts.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 1(b) of 
the Homeland Security Act of 2002 is amended by inserting after the 
item relating to section 228 the following new item:

``Sec. 228A. Cybersecurity strategy.''.
SEC. 1913. EMP AND GMD PLANNING, RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, AND 
PROTECTION AND PREPAREDNESS.
    (a) In General.--The Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101 et 
seq.) is amended--
        (1) in section 2 (6 U.S.C. 101)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (9) through (18) as 
        paragraphs (11) through (20), respectively;
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs 
        (8) and (9), respectively;
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following new 
        paragraph:
        ``(7) The term `EMP' means an electromagnetic pulse caused by a 
    nuclear device or nonnuclear device, including such a pulse caused 
    by an act of terrorism.''; and
            (D) by inserting after paragraph (9), as so redesignated, 
        the following new paragraph:
        ``(10) The term `GMD' means a geomagnetic disturbance caused by 
    a solar storm or another naturally occurring phenomenon.'';
        (2) in subsection (d) of section 201 (6 U.S.C. 121), by adding 
    at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(26)(A) Not later than six months after the date of the 
    enactment of this paragraph, to conduct an intelligence-based 
    review and comparison of the risks and consequences of EMP and GMD 
    facing critical infrastructure, and submit to the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and the Permanent Select Committee on 
    Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Select Committee 
    on Intelligence of the Senate--
                ``(i) a recommended strategy to protect and prepare the 
            critical infrastructure of the homeland against threats of 
            EMP and GMD; and
                ``(ii) not less frequently than every two years 
            thereafter for the next six years, updates of the 
            recommended strategy.
            ``(B) The recommended strategy under subparagraph (A) 
        shall--
                ``(i) be based on findings of the research and 
            development conducted under section 319;
                ``(ii) be developed in consultation with the relevant 
            Federal sector-specific agencies (as defined under 
            Presidential Policy Directive-21) for critical 
            infrastructure;
                ``(iii) be developed in consultation with the relevant 
            sector coordinating councils for critical infrastructure;
                ``(iv) be informed, to the extent practicable, by the 
            findings of the intelligence-based review and comparison of 
            the risks and consequences of EMP and GMD facing critical 
            infrastructure conducted under subparagraph (A); and
                ``(v) be submitted in unclassified form, but may 
            include a classified annex.
            ``(C) The Secretary may, if appropriate, incorporate the 
        recommended strategy into a broader recommendation developed by 
        the Department to help protect and prepare critical 
        infrastructure from terrorism, cyber attacks, and other threats 
        if, as incorporated, the recommended strategy complies with 
        subparagraph (B).'';
        (3) in title III (6 U.S.C. 181 et seq.), by adding at the end 
    the following new section:
    ``SEC. 319. EMP AND GMD MITIGATION RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
    ``(a) In General.--In furtherance of domestic preparedness and 
response, the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary for Science 
and Technology, and in consultation with other relevant executive 
agencies, relevant State, local, and tribal governments, and relevant 
owners and operators of critical infrastructure, shall, to the extent 
practicable, conduct research and development to mitigate the 
consequences of threats of EMP and GMD.
    ``(b) Scope.--The scope of the research and development under 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
        ``(1) An objective scientific analysis--
            ``(A) evaluating the risks to critical infrastructure from 
        a range of threats of EMP and GMD; and
            ``(B) which shall--
                ``(i) be conducted in conjunction with the Office of 
            Intelligence and Analysis; and
                ``(ii) include a review and comparison of the range of 
            threats and hazards facing critical infrastructure of the 
            electrical grid.
        ``(2) Determination of the critical utilities and national 
    security assets and infrastructure that are at risk from threats of 
    EMP and GMD.
        ``(3) An evaluation of emergency planning and response 
    technologies that would address the findings and recommendations of 
    experts, including those of the Commission to Assess the Threat to 
    the United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, which shall 
    include a review of the feasibility of rapidly isolating one or 
    more portions of the electrical grid from the main electrical grid.
        ``(4) An analysis of technology options that are available to 
    improve the resiliency of critical infrastructure to threats of EMP 
    and GMD, including an analysis of neutral current blocking devices 
    that may protect high-voltage transmission lines.
        ``(5) The restoration and recovery capabilities of critical 
    infrastructure under differing levels of damage and disruption from 
    various threats of EMP and GMD, as informed by the objective 
    scientific analysis conducted under paragraph (1).
        ``(6) An analysis of the feasibility of a real-time alert 
    system to inform electrical grid operators and other stakeholders 
    within milliseconds of a high-altitude nuclear explosion.
    ``(c) Exemption From Disclosure.--
        ``(1) Information shared with the federal government.--Section 
    214, and any regulations issued pursuant to such section, shall 
    apply to any information shared with the Federal Government under 
    this section.
        ``(2) Information shared by the federal government.--
    Information shared by the Federal Government with a State, local, 
    or tribal government under this section shall be exempt from 
    disclosure under any provision of State, local, or tribal freedom 
    of information law, open government law, open meetings law, open 
    records law, sunshine law, or similar law requiring the disclosure 
    of information or records.''; and
        (4) in title V (6 U.S.C. 311 et seq.), by adding at the end the 
    following new section:
    ``SEC. 527. NATIONAL PLANNING AND EDUCATION.
    ``The Secretary shall, to the extent practicable--
        ``(1) include in national planning frameworks the threat of an 
    EMP or GMD event; and
        ``(2) conduct outreach to educate owners and operators of 
    critical infrastructure, emergency planners, and emergency response 
    providers at all levels of government regarding threats of EMP and 
    GMD.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Homeland 
    Security Act of 2002 is amended--
            (A) by inserting after the item relating to section 317 the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 319. EMP and GMD mitigation research and development.''; and

            (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 525 the 
        following:

``Sec. 526. Integrated Public Alert and Warning System modernization.
``Sec. 527. National planning and education.''.

        (2) Section 501(13) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
    U.S.C. 311(13)) is amended by striking ``section 2(11)(B)'' and 
    inserting ``section 2(13)(B)''.
        (3) Section 712(a) of title 14, United States Code, is amended 
    by striking ``section 2(16) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
    U.S.C. 101(16))'' and inserting ``section 2 of the Homeland 
    Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 101)''.
    (c) Deadline for Initial Recommended Strategy.--Not later than one 
year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of 
Homeland Security shall submit the recommended strategy required under 
paragraph (26) of section 201(d) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 
(6 U.S.C. 121(d)), as added by this section.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
submit to Congress a report describing the progress made in, and an 
estimated date by which the Department of Homeland Security will have 
completed--
        (1) including threats of EMP and GMD (as those terms are 
    defined in section 2 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as 
    amended by this section) in national planning, as described in 
    section 527 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by this 
    section;
        (2) research and development described in section 319 of the 
    Homeland Security Act of 2002, as added by this section;
        (3) development of the recommended strategy required under 
    paragraph (26) of section 201(d) of the Homeland Security Act of 
    2002 (6 U.S.C. 121(d)), as added by this section; and
        (4) beginning to conduct outreach to educate emergency planners 
    and emergency response providers at all levels of government 
    regarding threats of EMP and GMD events.
    (e) No Regulatory Authority.--Nothing in this section, including 
the amendments made by this section, shall be construed to grant any 
regulatory authority.
    (f) No New Authorization of Appropriations.--This section, 
including the amendments made by this section, may be carried out only 
by using funds appropriated under the authority of other laws.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017''.
SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
SPECIFIED BY LAW.
    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII and title XXIX for military construction projects, land 
acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, and contributions 
to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program 
(and authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the 
later of--
        (1) October 1, 2019; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    military construction for fiscal year 2020.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
        (1) October 1, 2019; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    fiscal year 2020 for military construction projects, land 
    acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
    contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security 
    Investment Program.
SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    Titles XXI through XXVII and title XXIX shall take effect on the 
later of--
        (1) October 1, 2016; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2104. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2105. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.
SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                     Army: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State                   Installation            Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska........................  Fort Wainwright.......       $47,000,000
California....................  Concord...............       $12,600,000
Colorado......................  Fort Carson...........       $13,100,000
Georgia.......................   Fort Gordon..........      $100,600,000
                                Fort Stewart..........       $14,800,000
Missouri......................  Fort Leonard Wood.....        $6,900,000
Texas.........................  Fort Hood.............        $7,600,000
Utah..........................  Camp Williams.........        $7,400,000
Virginia......................  Fort Belvoir..........       $23,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
project for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:


                     Army: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country                   Installation             Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Cuba........................  Guantanamo Bay..........      $33,000,000
Germany......................   East Camp Grafenwoehr..      $22,000,000
                               Garmisch................       $9,600,000
                               Wiesbaden Army Airfield.      $19,200,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.
    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:


                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                      Installation                    Units                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea...................................   Camp Humphreys...........  Family Housing New            $297,000,000
                                                                       Construction.............
                                          Camp Walker...............  Family Housing New             $54,554,000
                                                                       Construction.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2103(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $2,618,000.
SEC. 2103. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2016, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2104. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 986) for Joint Base 
Lewis-McChord, Washington, for construction of an aircraft maintenance 
hangar at the installation, the Secretary of the Army may construct an 
aircraft washing apron.
SEC. 2105. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2119) and extended by section 2107 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of 
Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1148), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2017, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2018, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                                 Army: Extension of 2013 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or Location             Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kansas.................................   Fort Riley...............   Unmanned Aerial Vehicle        $12,200,000
                                                                      Complex..................
Virginia...............................  Fort Belvoir..............  Secure Admin/Operations        $172,200,000
                                                                      Facility.................
Italy..................................  Camp Ederle...............  Barracks..................      $36,000,000
Japan..................................  Sagami....................  Vehicle Maintenance Shop..      $18,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2106. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2014 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (127 
Stat. 986) shall remain in effect until October 1, 2017, or the date of 
the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for 
fiscal year 2018, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                                 Army: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
            State or Country              Installation or Location             Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Maryland...............................  Fort Detrick..............  Entry Control Point.......       $2,500,000
Marshall Islands.......................  Kwajalein Atoll...........  Pier......................      $63,000,000
Japan..................................  Kyotango City.............  Company Operations Complex      $33,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2207. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.
 Sec. 2208. Status of ``net negative'' policy regarding Navy acreage on 
          Guam.
SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Navy: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.......................................  Yuma............................................     $48,355,000
California....................................  Coronado........................................    $104,501,000
                                                Lemoore.........................................     $26,723,000
                                                Miramar.........................................    $193,600,000
                                                Seal Beach......................................     $21,007,000
Florida.......................................  Eglin Air Force Base............................     $20,489,000
Guam..........................................  Joint Region Marianas...........................     $89,185,000
Hawaii........................................  Barking Sands...................................     $43,384,000
                                                Kaneohe Bay.....................................     $72,565,000
Maine.........................................  Kittery.........................................     $47,892,000
Maryland......................................  Patuxent River..................................     $40,576,000
Nevada........................................  Fallon..........................................     $13,523,000
North Carolina................................  Camp Lejeune....................................     $18,482,000
                                                Cherry Point Marine Corps Air Station...........     $12,515,000
South Carolina................................  Beaufort........................................     $83,490,000
                                                Parris Island...................................     $29,882,000
Virginia......................................  Norfolk.........................................     $27,000,000
Washington....................................  Bangor..........................................    $113,415,000
                                                Bremerton.......................................      $6,704,000
                                                Whidbey Island..................................     $75,976,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation or location outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan.........................................  Kadena Air Base.................................     $26,489,000
                                                Sasebo..........................................     $16,420,000
Spain.........................................  Rota............................................     $23,607,000
Worldwide Unspecified.........................  Unspecified Worldwide Locations.................     $41,380,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.
    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installation or location, in the number 
of units, and in the amount set forth in the following table:


                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                     Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Mariana Islands........................  Guam.......................  Replace Andersen Housing       $78,815,000
                                                                       PH 1....................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $4,149,000.
SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $11,047,000.
SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2016, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2205. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2201 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 989) for Pearl City, 
Hawaii, for construction of a water transmission line at that location, 
the Secretary of the Navy may construct a 591-meter (1,940-foot) long 
16-inch diameter water transmission line as part of the network 
required to provide the main water supply to Joint Base Pearl Harbor-
Hickam, Hawaii.
SEC. 2206. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2122) and extended by section 2206 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of 
Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1151), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2017, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2018, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                                 Navy: Extension of 2013 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..............................   Camp Pendleton...........  Comm. Information Systems      $78,897,000
                                                                       Ops Complex..............
Greece..................................  Souda Bay.................  Intermodal Access Road....      $4,630,000
South Carolina..........................  Beaufort..................  Recycling/Hazardous Waste       $3,743,000
                                                                       Facility.................
Worldwide Unspecified...................  Various Worldwide           BAMS Operational               $34,048,000
                                           Locations................   Facilities...............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2207. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2014 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act (127 
Stat. 989), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2017, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2018, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                                 Navy: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Hawaii..................................  Kaneohe...................  Aircraft Maintenance           $31,820,000
                                                                       Hangar Upgrades..........
                                          Pearl City................  Water Transmission Line...     $30,100,000
Illinois................................  Great Lakes...............  Unaccompanied Housing.....     $35,851,000
Maine...................................  Bangor....................  NCTAMS VLF Commercial          $13,800,000
                                                                       Power Connection.........
Nevada..................................  Fallon....................  Wastewater Treatment Plant     $11,334,000
Virginia................................  Quantico..................  Academic Instruction           $25,731,000
                                                                       Facility TECOM Schools...
                                          Quantico..................  Fuller Road Improvements..      $9,013,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2208. STATUS OF ``NET NEGATIVE'' POLICY REGARDING NAVY ACREAGE ON 
GUAM .
    (a) Report on Status.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than 6 months after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit a 
    report to the congressional defense committees regarding the status 
    of the implementation of the ``net negative'' policy regarding the 
    total number of acres of the real property controlled by the 
    Department of the Navy on Guam, as described in subsection (b).
        (2) Contents.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following information:
            (A) A description of the real property controlled by the 
        Navy on Guam which the Navy has transferred to the control of 
        Guam after January 20, 2011, or which the Navy plans to 
        transfer to the control of Guam, as well as a description of 
        the specific legal authority under which the Navy has 
        transferred or will transfer each such property.
            (B) The methodology and process the Navy will use to 
        determine the total number of acres of real property that the 
        Navy will transfer or has transferred to the control of Guam as 
        part of the ``net negative'' policy, and the date on which the 
        Navy will transfer or has transferred control of any such 
        property.
            (C) A description of the real property controlled by the 
        Navy on Guam which the Navy plans to retain under its control 
        and the reasons for retaining such property, including a 
        detailed explanation of the reasons for retaining any such 
        property which has not been developed or for which no 
        development has been proposed under the current installation 
        master plans for major military installations (as described in 
        section 2864 of title 10, United States Code).
        (3) Exclusion of certain property.--In preparing and submitting 
    the report under this subsection, the Secretary may not take into 
    account any real property which has been transferred to the 
    Government of Guam prior to January 20, 2011, to include property 
    under the Guam Excess Lands Act (Public Law 103-339) or the Guam 
    Land Use Plan (GLUP) 1977, or pursuant to base realignment and 
    closure authorized under the Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
    Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 
    2687 note).
    (b) Policy Described.--The ``net negative'' policy described in 
this section is the policy of the Secretary of the Navy, as expressed 
in the statement released by Under Secretary of the Navy on January 20, 
2011, that the relocation of Marines to Guam occurring during 2011 will 
not cause the total number of acres of real property controlled by the 
Navy on Guam upon the completion of such relocation to exceed the total 
number of acres of real property controlled by the Navy on Guam prior 
to such relocation.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2016 project.
Sec. 2306. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2013 
          project.
Sec. 2307. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2014 
          project.
Sec. 2308. Restriction on acquisition of property in Northern Mariana 
          Islands.
SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                   Air Force: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
            State                     Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama......................  Maxwell Air Force Base        $15,000,000
Alaska.......................  Clear Air Force               $20,000,000
                                Station.
                               Eielson Air Force Base       $295,600,000
                               Joint Base Elmendorf-         $29,000,000
                                Richardson...........
Arizona......................  Luke Air Force Base...        $20,000,000
California...................   Edwards Air Force            $24,000,000
                                Base.
Colorado.....................   Buckley Air Force            $13,500,000
                                Base.
 Delaware....................   Dover Air Force Base.        $39,000,000
Florida......................   Eglin Air Force Base.       $123,600,000
                               Patrick Air Force Base        $13,500,000
Georgia......................  Moody Air Force Base..        $30,900,000
Guam.........................  Joint Region Marianas.        $80,658,000
Illinois.....................  Scott Air Force Base..        $41,000,000
Kansas.......................   McConnell Air Force          $19,800,000
                                Base.
Louisiana....................   Barksdale Air Force          $21,000,000
                                Base.
Maryland.....................  Joint Base Andrews....        $66,500,000
Massachusetts................  Hanscom Air Force Base        $30,965,000
Montana......................  Malmstrom Air Force           $14,600,000
                                Base.
Nevada.......................  Nellis Air Force Base.        $10,600,000
New Mexico...................  Cannon Air Force Base.        $21,000,000
                               Holloman Air Force            $10,600,000
                                Base.
                               Kirtland Air Force             $7,300,000
                                Base.
Ohio.........................  Wright-Patterson Air          $12,600,000
                                Force Base...........
Oklahoma.....................  Altus Air Force Base..        $11,600,000
                               Tinker Air Force Base.        $43,000,000
South Carolina...............  Joint Base Charleston.        $17,000,000
Texas........................  Joint Base San Antonio        $67,300,000
Utah.........................  Hill Air Force Base...        $44,500,000
Virginia.....................  Joint Base Langley-           $59,200,000
                                Eustis.
Washington...................  Fairchild Air Force           $27,000,000
                                Base.
Wyoming......................  F.E. Warren Air Force          $5,550,000
                                Base.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installation or location outside the United States, 
and in the amount, set forth in the following table:


                  Air Force: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   Installation or
           Country                    Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Australia....................   Darwin...............        $30,400,000
Germany......................  Ramstein Air Base.....        $13,437,000
                               Spangdahlem Air Base..        $43,465,000
Japan........................  Kadena Air Base.......        $19,815,000
                               Yokota Air Base.......        $32,020,000
Mariana Islands..............  Unspecified Location..         $9,000,000
Turkey.......................  Incirlik Air Base.....        $13,449,000
United Arab Emirates.........  Al Dhafra.............        $35,400,000
United Kingdom...............  Royal Air Force                $69,582,00
                                Croughton.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $4,368,000.
SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $56,984,000.
SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2016, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2016 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1153) for Malmstrom 
Air Force Base, Montana, for construction of a Tactical Response Force 
Alert Facility at the installation, the Secretary of the Air Force may 
construct an emergency power generator system consistent with the Air 
Force's construction guidelines.
SEC. 2306. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (126 
Stat. 2126) and extended by section 2309 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of Public Law 114-
92; 129 Stat. 1155), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2017, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2018, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                               Air Force: Extension of 2013 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
              State/Country                Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Portugal................................  Lajes Field...............  Sanitary Sewer Lift/Pump        $2,000,000
                                                                       Station..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2307. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2014 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (127 
Stat. 992), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2017, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2018, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                               Air Force: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Country                   Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Unspecified (Italy)...........  Aviano Air Base...........  Guardian Angel Operations      $22,047,000
                                                                       Facility.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2308. RESTRICTION ON ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY IN NORTHERN MARIANA 
ISLANDS.
    The Secretary of the Air Force may not use any of the amounts 
authorized to be appropriated under section 2304 to acquire property or 
interests in property at an unspecified location in the Commonwealth of 
the Northern Mariana Islands, as specified in the funding table set 
forth in section 2301(b) and the funding table in section 4601, until 
the congressional defense committees have received from the Secretary a 
report providing the following information:
        (1) The specific location of the property or interest in 
    property to be acquired.
        (2) The total cost, scope, and location of the military 
    construction projects and the acquisition of property or interests 
    in property required to support the Secretary's proposed divert 
    activities and exercises in the Commonwealth of the Northern 
    Mariana Islands.
        (3) An analysis of any alternative locations that the Secretary 
    considered acquiring, including other locations or interests within 
    the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands or the Freely 
    Associated States. For purposes of this paragraph, the term 
    ``Freely Associated States'' means the Republic of the Marshall 
    Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of 
    Palau.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.
SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska..........................................  Clear Air Force Station....................       $155,000,000
                                                  Fort Greely................................         $9,560,000
                                                  Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson............         $4,900,000
Arizona.........................................  Fort Huachuca..............................         $4,493,000
California......................................  Coronado...................................       $175,412,000
                                                  Travis Air Force Base......................        $26,500,000
Delaware........................................   Dover Air Force Base......................        $44,115,000
Florida.........................................  Patrick Air Force Base.....................        $10,100,000
Georgia.........................................  Fort Benning...............................         $4,820,000
                                                  Fort Gordon................................        $25,000,000
Maine...........................................  Portsmouth.................................        $27,100,000
Maryland........................................  Bethesda Naval Hospital....................       $510,000,000
                                                  Fort Meade.................................        $38,000,000
Missouri........................................  St. Louis..................................           $801,000
North Carolina..................................  Camp Lejeune...............................        $31,000,000
                                                  Fort Bragg.................................        $86,593,000
South Carolina..................................  Joint Base Charleston......................        $17,000,000
Texas...........................................  Red River Army Depot.......................        $44,700,000
                                                  Sheppard Air Force Base....................        $91,910,000
Virginia........................................  Pentagon...................................        $20,216,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Diego Garcia....................................  Diego Garcia...............................        $30,000,000
Germany.........................................  Kaiserslautern.............................        $45,221,000
Japan...........................................  Ikakuni....................................         $6,664,000
                                                  Kadena Air Base............................       $161,224,000
                                                  Yokota Air Base............................       $113,731,000
Kwajalein.......................................  Kwajalein Atoll............................        $85,500,000
United Kingdom..................................  Royal Air Force Croughton..................        $71,424,000
                                                  Royal Air Force Lakenheath.................        $13,500,000
Wake Island.....................................  Wake Island................................        $11,670,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may carry out energy 
conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, United States 
Code, in the amount set forth in the following table:


                             Energy Conservation Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                 Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California......................................  Edwards Air Force Base.....................         $8,400,000
                                                  Naval Base San Diego.......................         $4,230,000
                                                  Fort Hunter Liggett........................         $5,400,000
Colorado........................................  Fort Carson................................         $5,000,000
                                                  Schriever Air Force Base...................         $3,295,000
Florida.........................................  SUBASE Kings Bay NAS Jacksonville..........         $3,230,000
Guam............................................  NAVBASE Guam...............................         $8,540,000
Hawaii..........................................   NSAH Wahiawa Kunia Oahu...................        $14,890,000
Ohio............................................  Wright Patterson Air Force Base............        $14,400,000
Utah............................................  Dugway Proving Ground......................         $7,500,000
                                                  Tooele Army Depot..........................         $8,200,000
Various Locations...............................  Various Locations..........................        $28,088,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects outside the United States as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, 
United States Code, for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                             Energy Conservation Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Country                                Installation or Location                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Cuba............................................   Guantanamo Bay............................         $6,080,000
Diego Garcia....................................  NSF Diego Garcia...........................        $17,010,000
Japan...........................................  Kadena Air Base............................         $4,007,000
                                                  Misawa Air Base............................         $5,315,000
Spain...........................................  Rota.......................................         $3,710,000
Various Locations...............................  Various Locations..........................         $2,705,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2016, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2404. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization in the table in section 2401(b) of 
the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 996), for Royal Air Force 
Lakenheath, United Kingdom, for construction of a high school, the 
Secretary of Defense may construct a combined middle/high school.
SEC. 2405. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2127) and amended by section 2406(a) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of 
Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1160), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2017, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2018, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2013 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or  Location
              State/Country                                                     Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Japan...................................  Camp Zama.................  Renovate Zama High School.     $13,273,000
Pennsylvania............................  New Cumberland............  Replace reservoir.........      $4,300,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2406. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2014 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act (127 
Stat. 995), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2017, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2018, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Installation or  Location
              State/Country                                                     Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..............................  Brawley...................  SOF Desert Warfare             $23,095,000
                                                                       Training Center..........
Germany.................................  Kaiserslautern............  Replace Kaiserslautern         $49,907,000
                                                                       Elementary School........
                                          Ramstein Air Base.........  Replace Ramstein High          $98,762,000
                                                                       School...................
Hawaii..................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-    DISA Pacific Facility           $2,615,000
                                           Hickam...................   Upgrade..................
Massachusetts...........................  Hanscom Air Force Base....  Replace Hanscom Primary        $36,213,000
                                                                       School...................
United Kingdom..........................  RAF Lakenheath............  Replace Lakenheath High        $69,638,000
                                                                       School...................
Virginia................................  Marine Corps Base Quantico  Replace Quantico Middle/       $40,586,000
                                                                       High School..............
                                          Pentagon..................  PFPA Support Operations        $14,800,000
                                                                       Center...................
                                          Pentagon..................  Raven Rock Administrative      $32,000,000
                                                                       Facility Upgrade.........
                                          Pentagon..................  Boundary Channel Access         $6,700,000
                                                                       Control Point............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   TITLE XXV--INTERNATIONAL PROGRAMS

   Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                 Program

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

Sec. 2511. Republic of Korea funded construction projects.

  Subtitle A--North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment 
                                Program

SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.
SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2016, for contributions by the Secretary 
of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by 
section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

             Subtitle B--Host Country In-Kind Contributions

SEC. 2511. REPUBLIC OF KOREA FUNDED CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
    Pursuant to agreement with the Republic of Korea for required in-
kind contributions, the Secretary of Defense may accept military 
construction projects for the installations or locations, and in the 
amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                 Republic of Korea Funded Construction Projects
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                            Installation or
             Country                     Component             Location              Project           Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Korea............................  Army................  CP Tango............  Repair Collective     $11,600,000
                                                                                Protection System
                                                                                (CPS).............
                                   Army................  Camp Humphreys......  Duplex Company         $10,200,00
                                                                                Operations,
                                                                                Zoeckler Station..
                                   Army................  Camp Humphreys......  Vehicle Maintenance   $49,500,000
                                                                                Facility & Company
                                                                                Ops Complex (3rd
                                                                                CAB)..............
                                   Army................  Camp Humphreys......  8th Army              $14,600,000
                                                                                Correctional
                                                                                Facility..........
                                   Navy................  Camp Mujuk..........  Marine Air Ground     $68,000,000
                                                                                Task Force
                                                                                Operations Center.
                                   Navy................  Camp Mujuk..........  Camp Mujuk Life       $14,100,000
                                                                                Support Area (LSA)
                                                                                Barracks #2.......
                                   Navy................  Camp Mujuk..........  Camp Mujuk Life       $14,100,000
                                                                                Support Area (LSA)
                                                                                Barracks #3.......
                                   Air Force...........  Kunsan Air Base.....  3rd Generation       $132,500,000
                                                                                Hardened Aircraft
                                                                                Shelters (HAS);
                                                                                Phases 4, 5, 6....
                                   Air Force...........  Kunsan Air Base.....  Upgrade Electrical    $13,000,000
                                                                                Distribution
                                                                                System............
                                   Air Force...........  Osan Air Base.......  Construct Korea Air  $160,000,000
                                                                                Operations Center.
                                   Air Force...........  Osan Air Base.......  Air Freight           $40,000,000
                                                                                Terminal Facility.
                                   Air Force...........  Osan Air Base.......  Construct F-16         $7,500,000
                                                                                Quick Turn Pad....
                                   Defense-Wide........  Camp Carroll........  Sustainment           $74,600,000
                                                                                Facilities Upgrade
                                                                                Phase I - DLA
                                                                                Warehouse.........
                                   Defense-Wide........  USAG Humphreys......  Elementary School..   $42,000,000
                                   Defense-Wide........  Icheon Special        Special Operations     $9,900,000
                                                          Warfare Command....   Command, Korea
                                                                                (SOCKOR)
                                                                                Contingency
                                                                                Operations Center
                                                                                and Barracks......
                                   Defense-Wide........  K-16 Air Base.......  Special Operations    $11,000,000
                                                                                Forces (SOF)
                                                                                Operations
                                                                                Facility, B-606...
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 project.
Sec. 2613. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2016 project.
Sec. 2614. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2013 
          project.
Sec. 2615. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Colorado........................................  Fort Carson................................        $16,500,000
Hawaii..........................................  Hilo.......................................        $31,000,000
Iowa............................................  Davenport..................................        $23,000,000
Kansas..........................................   Fort Leavenworth..........................        $29,000,000
New Hampshire...................................  Hooksett...................................        $11,000,000
                                                  Rochester..................................         $8,900,000
Oklahoma........................................  Ardmore....................................        $22,000,000
Pennsylvania....................................  Fort Indiantown Gap........................        $20,000,000
                                                  York.......................................         $9,300,000
Rhode Island....................................  East Greenwich.............................        $20,000,000
Utah............................................  Camp Williams..............................        $37,000,000
Wyoming.........................................  Camp Guernsey..............................        $31,000,000
                                                  Laramie....................................        $21,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                                  Army Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.........................................  Phoenix....................................        $30,000,000
California......................................  Camp Parks.................................        $19,000,000
                                                  Fort Hunter Liggett........................        $21,500,000
Virginia........................................  Dublin.....................................         $6,000,000
Wisconsin.......................................  Fort McCoy.................................        $11,400,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve 
locations inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in 
the following table:


                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Louisiana.......................................  New Orleans................................        $11,207,000
New York........................................  Brooklyn...................................         $1,964,000
                                                  Syracuse...................................        $13,229,000
Texas...........................................  Galveston..................................         $8,414,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air National Guard locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:


                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Connecticut.....................................  Bradley IAP................................         $6,300,000
Florida.........................................  Jacksonville IAP...........................         $9,000,000
Hawaii..........................................   Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam............        $11,000,000
Iowa............................................  Sioux Gateway Airport......................        $12,600,000
Maryland........................................  Joint Base Andrews.........................         $5,000,000
Minnesota.......................................  Duluth IAP.................................         $7,600,000
New Hampshire...................................  Pease International Trade Port.............         $1,500,000
North Carolina..................................  Charlotte/Douglas IAP......................        $50,600,000
Ohio............................................  Toledo Express Airport.....................         $6,000,000
South Carolina..................................  McEntire ANGS..............................         $8,400,000
Texas...........................................  Ellington Field............................         $4,500,000
Vermont.........................................  Burlington IAP.............................         $4,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:


                                                Air Force Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 North Carolina.................................  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base.............        $97,950,000
Pennsylvania....................................  Pittsburgh International Airport...........        $85,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2016, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1001) for Bullville, 
New York, for construction of a new Army Reserve Center at that 
location, the Secretary of the Army may add to or alter the existing 
Army Reserve Center at Bullville, New York.
SEC. 2612. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2015 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2603 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3689) for Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania, for construction of a Reserve Training Center at that 
location, the Secretary of the Navy may acquire approximately 8.5 acres 
(370,260 square feet) of adjacent land, obtain necessary interest in 
land, and construct road improvements and associated supporting 
facilities to provide required access to the Reserve Training Center.
SEC. 2613. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2016 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2602 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1163) for MacDill Air 
Force Base, Florida, for construction of an Army Reserve Center/
Aviation Support Facility at that location, the Secretary of the Army 
may relocate and construct replacement skeet and grenade launcher 
ranges necessary to clear the site for the new Army Reserve facilities.
SEC. 2614. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2603 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2135) and extended by section 2614 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of 
Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1166), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2017, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2018, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                       National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2013 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Iowa....................................  Fort Des Moines...........  Joint Reserve Center......     $19,162,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2615. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2014 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 985), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2602, 2603, 2604, and 
2605 of that Act (127 Stat. 1001, 1002), shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2017, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2018, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:


                      National Guard and Reserve: Extension of 2014 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..............................  Camp Parks................  Army Reserve Center.......     $17,500,000
                                          March Air Force Base......  NOSC Moreno Valley Reserve     $11,086,000
                                                                       Training Center..........
Florida.................................  Homestead ARB.............  Entry Control Complex.....      $9,800,000
Maryland................................  Fort Meade................  175th Network Warfare           $4,000,000
                                                                       Squadron Facility........
                                          Martin State Airport......  Cyber/ISR Facility........      $8,000,000
New York................................  Bullville.................  Army Reserve Center.......     $14,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2014 
          projects.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional Base Realignment and 
          Closure (BRAC) round.
SEC. 2701. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2014 
PROJECTS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2016, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

  Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

Sec. 2801. Modification of criteria for treatment of laboratory 
          revitalization projects as minor military construction 
          projects.
Sec. 2802. Classification of facility conversion projects as repair 
          projects.
Sec. 2803. Limited authority for scope of work increase.
Sec. 2804. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
          and maintenance funds for construction projects outside the 
          United States.
Sec. 2805. Authority to expand energy conservation construction program 
          to include energy resiliency projects.
Sec. 2806. Additional entities eligible for participation in defense 
          laboratory modernization pilot program.
Sec. 2807. Extension of temporary authority for acceptance and use of 
          contributions for certain construction, maintenance, and 
          repair projects mutually beneficial to the Department of 
          Defense and Kuwait military forces.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Acceptance of military construction projects as payments in-
          kind and in-kind contributions.
Sec. 2812. Allotment of space and provision of services to WIC offices 
          operating on military installations.
 Sec. 2813. Sense of Congress regarding inclusion of stormwater systems 
          and components within the meaning of ``wastewater system'' 
          under the Department of Defense authority for conveyance of 
          utility systems.
Sec. 2814. Assessment of public schools on Department of Defense 
          installations.
Sec. 2815. Prior certification required for use of Department of Defense 
          facilities by other Federal agencies for temporary housing 
          support.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2821. Land conveyance, High Frequency Active Auroral Research 
          Program facility and adjacent property, Gakona, Alaska.
Sec. 2822. Land conveyance, Campion Air Force Radar Station, Galena, 
          Alaska.
Sec. 2823. Lease, Joint Base Elmendorf-Richardson, Alaska.
Sec. 2824. Transfer of administrative jurisdictions, Navajo Army Depot, 
          Arizona.
Sec. 2825. Exchange of property interests, San Diego Unified Port 
          District, California.
Sec. 2826. Release of property interests retained in connection with 
          land conveyance, Eglin Air Force Base, Florida.
Sec. 2827. Land exchange, Fort Hood, Texas.
Sec. 2828. Land Conveyance, P-36 Warehouse, Colbern United States Army 
          Reserve Center, Laredo, Texas.
Sec. 2829. Land conveyance, St. George National Guard Armory, St. 
          George, Utah.
Sec. 2829A. Land acquisitions, Arlington County, Virginia.
Sec. 2829B. Release of restrictions, Richland Innovation Center, 
          Richland, Washington.
Sec. 2829C. Modification of land conveyance, Rocky Mountain Arsenal 
          National Wildlife Refuge.
Sec. 2829D. Closure of St. Marys Airport.
Sec. 2829E. Transfer of Fort Belvoir Mark Center Campus from the 
          Secretary of the Army to the Secretary of Defense and 
          applicability of certain provisions of law relating to the 
          Pentagon Reservation.
Sec. 2829F. Return of certain lands at Fort Wingate, New Mexico, to the 
          original inhabitants.

         Subtitle D--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

Sec. 2831. Cyber Center for Education and Innovation-Home of the 
          National Cryptologic Museum.
Sec. 2832. Renaming site of the Dayton Aviation Heritage National 
          Historical Park, Ohio.
Sec. 2833. Women's military service memorials and museums.
Sec. 2834. Petersburg National Battlefield boundary modification.

               Subtitle E--Designations and Other Matters

Sec. 2841. Designation of portion of Moffett Federal Airfield, 
          California, as Moffett Air National Guard Base.
Sec. 2842. Redesignation of Mike O'Callaghan Federal Medical Center.
Sec. 2843. Replenishment of Sierra Vista subwatershed regional aquifer, 
          Arizona.
Sec. 2844. Limited exceptions to restriction on development of public 
          infrastructure in connection with realignment of Marine Corps 
          forces in Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 2845. Duration of withdrawal and reservation of public land, Naval 
          Air Weapons Station China Lake, California.

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing

SEC. 2801. MODIFICATION OF CRITERIA FOR TREATMENT OF LABORATORY 
REVITALIZATION PROJECTS AS MINOR MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS.
    (a) Increase in Threshold.--Section 2805(d) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``$4,000,000'' each place it 
appears in paragraph (1)(A), (1)(B), and (2) and inserting 
``$6,000,000''.
    (b) Notice Requirements.--Section 2805(d) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) by striking the second sentence of paragraph (2); and
        (2) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
    ``(3) If the Secretary concerned makes a decision to carry out an 
unspecified minor military construction project to which this 
subsection applies, the Secretary concerned shall notify in writing the 
appropriate committees of Congress of that decision, of the 
justification for the project, and of the estimated cost of the 
project. The project may then be carried out only after the end of the 
21-day period beginning on the date the notification is received by the 
committees or, if earlier, the end of the 14-day period beginning on 
the date on which a copy of the notification is provided in an 
electronic medium pursuant to section 480 of this title.''.
    (c) Extension of Sunset.--Paragraph (5) of section 2805(d) of such 
title is amended by striking ``2018'' and inserting ``2025''.
SEC. 2802. CLASSIFICATION OF FACILITY CONVERSION PROJECTS AS REPAIR 
PROJECTS.
    Subsection (e) of section 2811 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Repair Project Defined.--In this section, the term `repair 
project' means a project--
        ``(1) to restore a real property facility, system, or component 
    to such a condition that it may effectively be used for its 
    designated functional purpose; or
        ``(2) to convert a real property facility, system, or component 
    to a new functional purpose without increasing its external 
    dimensions.''.
SEC. 2803. LIMITED AUTHORITY FOR SCOPE OF WORK INCREASE.
    (a) In General.--Section 2853 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``The scope of work'' and 
    inserting ``Except as provided in subsection (d), the scope of 
    work'';
        (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively; and
        (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) The limitation in subsection (b)(2) on an increase in the 
scope of work does not apply if--
        ``(1) the increase in the scope of work is not more than 10 
    percent of the amount specified for that project, construction, 
    improvement, or acquisition in the justification data provided to 
    Congress as part of the request for authorization of the project, 
    construction, improvement, or acquisition;
        ``(2) the increase is approved by the Secretary concerned;
        ``(3) the Secretary concerned notifies the congressional 
    defense committees in writing of the increase in scope and the 
    reasons therefor; and
        ``(4) a period of 21 days has elapsed after the date on which 
    the notification is received by the committees or, if over sooner, 
    a period of 14 days has elapsed after the date on which a copy of 
    the notification is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to 
    section 480 of this title.''.
    (b) Cross-Reference Amendments.--(1) Subsection (a) of such section 
is amended by striking ``subsection (c) or (d)'' and inserting 
``subsection (c), (d), or (e)''.
    (2) Subsection (f) of such section, as redesignated by subsection 
(a)(2), is amended by striking ``through (d)'' and inserting ``through 
(e)''.
    (c) Additional Technical Amendment.--Subsection (a) of such section 
is further amended by inserting ``of this title'' after ``section 
2805(a)''.
SEC. 2804. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION 
AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED 
STATES.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 2808 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division 
B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), as most recently amended by 
section 2802 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2016 (division B of Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1169), is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2017''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2018''.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Authority.--Subsection (c)(1) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``October 1, 2015'' and inserting ``October 1, 
    2016'';
        (2) by striking ``December 31, 2016'' and inserting ``December 
    31, 2017''; and
        (3) by striking ``fiscal year 2017'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2018''.
SEC. 2805. AUTHORITY TO EXPAND ENERGY CONSERVATION CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM 
TO INCLUDE ENERGY RESILIENCY PROJECTS.
    (a) Expansion of Authority to Energy Resiliency and Energy Security 
Projects.--
        (1) In general.--Section 2914 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended--
            (A) in the section heading, by inserting ``resiliency and'' 
        before ``conservation construction projects''; and
            (B) in subsection (a), by striking ``military construction 
        project for energy conservation'' and inserting ``military 
        construction project for energy resiliency, energy security, or 
        energy conservation''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 173 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 2914 and inserting the following new item:

``2914. Energy resiliency and conservation construction projects.''.

    (b) Notice and Reporting Requirements for Projects.--
        (1) Contents of notifications.--
            (A) Contents.--Section 2914(b) of title 10, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                (i) by striking ``When a decision'' and inserting ``(1) 
            When a decision''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall include in each notification 
submitted under paragraph (1) the following information:
        ``(A) In the case of a military construction project for energy 
    conservation, the justification and current cost estimate for the 
    project, the expected savings-to-investment ratio, simple payback 
    estimates, and the project's measurement and verification cost 
    estimate.
        ``(B) In the case of a military construction project for energy 
    resiliency or energy security, the rationale for how the project 
    would enhance mission assurance, support mission critical 
    functions, and address known vulnerabilities.''.
            (B) Effective date.--The amendment made by subparagraph (A) 
        shall apply with respect to notifications provided during 
        fiscal year 2017 or any succeeding fiscal year.
        (2) Annual report.--Section 2914 of such title is amended by 
    adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Annual Report.--Not later than 90 days after the end of each 
fiscal year (beginning with fiscal year 2017), the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
status of the planned and active projects carried out under this 
section (including completed projects), and shall include in the report 
with respect to each such project the following information:
        ``(1) The title, location, a brief description of the scope of 
    work, the original project cost estimate, and the current working 
    cost estimate.
        ``(2) In the case of a military construction project for energy 
    conservation--
            ``(A) the original expected savings-to-investment ratio and 
        simple payback estimates and measurement and verification cost 
        estimate;
            ``(B) the most current expected savings-to-investment ratio 
        and simple payback estimates and measurement and verification 
        plan and costs; and
            ``(C) a brief description of the measurement and 
        verification plan and planned funding source.
        ``(3) In the case of a military construction project for energy 
    resiliency or energy security, the rationale for how the project 
    would enhance mission assurance, support mission critical 
    functions, and address known vulnerabilities.
        ``(4) Such other information as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.''.
SEC. 2806. ADDITIONAL ENTITIES ELIGIBLE FOR PARTICIPATION IN DEFENSE 
LABORATORY MODERNIZATION PILOT PROGRAM.
    Section 2803(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1169; 10 U.S.C. 2358 
note) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(4) A Department of Defense research, development, test, and 
    evaluation facility that is not designated as a Science and 
    Technology Reinvention Laboratory, but nonetheless is involved with 
    developmental test and evaluation.''.
SEC. 2807. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF 
CONTRIBUTIONS FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR 
PROJECTS MUTUALLY BENEFICIAL TO THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND KUWAIT 
MILITARY FORCES.
    Section 2804(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1171; 10 U.S.C. 2350j 
note) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2020'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2030''.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

SEC. 2811. ACCEPTANCE OF MILITARY CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS AS PAYMENTS IN-
KIND AND IN-KIND CONTRIBUTIONS.
    (a) Payments-In-Kind and In-Kind Contributions.--Subsection (f) of 
section 2687a of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(f) Acceptance of Military Construction Projects As Payments-In-
Kind and In-Kind Contributions.--(1)(A) Except as provided in 
subparagraph (B), a military construction project costing more than 
$6,000,000 may be accepted as payment-in-kind or as an in-kind 
contribution required by a bilateral agreement with a host country only 
if that military construction project is authorized by law.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) does not apply to a military construction 
project that--
        ``(i) was specified in a bilateral agreement with a host 
    country that was entered into before December 26, 2013;
        ``(ii) was the subject of negotiation between the United States 
    and a host country as of the date of the enactment of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015; or
        ``(iii) was accepted as payment-in-kind for the residual value 
    of improvements made by the United States at military installations 
    released to the host country under section 2921 of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (division B of 
    Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) before December 26, 2013.
    ``(2)(A) If the Secretary of Defense accepts a military 
construction project to be built for Department of Defense personnel 
outside the United States as a payment-in-kind or an in-kind 
contribution required by a bilateral agreement with a host country, the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
written notification at least 30 days before the initiation date for 
any such military construction project.
    ``(B) A notification under subparagraph (A) with respect to a 
proposed military construction project shall include the following:
        ``(i) The requirements for, and purpose and description of, the 
    proposed project.
        ``(ii) The cost of the proposed project.
        ``(iii) The scope of the proposed project.
        ``(iv) The schedule for the proposed project.
        ``(v) Such other details as the Secretary considers relevant.
    ``(C) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to a military construction 
project authorized in a Military Construction Authorization Act.
    ``(3) To the extent that a payment-in-kind or an in-kind 
contribution is provided under a bilateral agreement with a host 
country with respect to a military construction project for which funds 
have already been obligated or expended by the Secretary of Defense, 
the Secretary shall return to the Treasury funds in an amount equal to 
the value of the funds already obligated or expended for the project.
    ``(4) In this subsection, the term `military construction project' 
has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of this title.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2802 of such title is amended by 
striking subsection (d).
    (c) Repeal.--Section 2803 of the Carl Levin and Howard ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3696) is repealed, and the provisions of law 
amended by subsections (a) and (b) of that section shall be restored as 
if such section had not been enacted into law.
SEC. 2812. ALLOTMENT OF SPACE AND PROVISION OF SERVICES TO WIC OFFICES 
OPERATING ON MILITARY INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Allotment of Space and Provision of Services Authorized.--
Chapter 152 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after section 2566 the following new section:
``Sec. 2567. Space and services: provision to WIC offices
    ``(a) Allotment of Space and Provision of Services Authorized.--
Upon application by a WIC office, the Secretary of a military 
department may allot space on a military installation under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary to the WIC office without charge for rent 
or services if the Secretary determines that--
        ``(1) the WIC office provides or will provide services solely 
    to members of the armed forces assigned to the installation, 
    civilian employees of the Department of Defense employed at the 
    installation, or dependents of such members or employees;
        ``(2) space is available on the installation;
        ``(3) operation of the WIC office will not hinder military 
    mission requirements; and
        ``(4) the security situation at the installation permits the 
    presence of a non-Federal entity on the installation.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `services' includes the provision of lighting, 
    heating, cooling, and electricity.
        ``(2) The term `WIC office' means a local agency (as defined in 
    subsection (b)(6) of section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 
    (42 U.S.C. 1786)) that participates in the special supplemental 
    nutrition program for women, infants, and children under such 
    section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 152 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 2566 the following new item:

``2567. Space and services: provision to WIC offices''.
SEC. 2813. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING INCLUSION OF STORMWATER SYSTEMS 
AND COMPONENTS WITHIN THE MEANING OF ``WASTEWATER SYSTEM'' UNDER THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY FOR CONVEYANCE OF UTILITY SYSTEMS .
    It is the sense of Congress that the reference to a system for the 
collection or treatment of wastewater in the definition of ``utility 
system'' in section 2688 of title 10, United States Code, which 
authorizes the Department of Defense to convey utility systems, 
includes stormwater systems and components.
SEC. 2814. ASSESSMENT OF PUBLIC SCHOOLS ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) Update of 2011 assessment on school capacity and 
    condition.--Not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
    of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees an update of the assessment on the 
    capacity and facility condition deficiencies of elementary and 
    secondary public schools on military installations conducted by the 
    Secretary in July 2011 under section 8109 of the Department of 
    Defense and Full-Year Continuing Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public 
    Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 82). In updating the assessment, the 
    Secretary shall take into consideration factors including--
            (A) schools that have had changes in their condition or 
        capacity since the original assessment; and
            (B) the capacity and facility condition deficiencies of 
        schools that may have been inadvertently omitted from the 
        original assessment.
        (2) Additional information.--The Secretary shall include in the 
    update submitted under paragraph (1) a report on the status of the 
    funds already appropriated, and the schedule for the completion of 
    projects already approved, under the programs funded under section 
    8109 of the Department of Defense and Full-Year Continuing 
    Appropriations Act, 2011 (Public Law 112-10; 125 Stat. 82), section 
    8118 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (Public Law 112-
    74; 125 Stat. 833), section 8108 of the Consolidated and Further 
    Continuing Appropriations Act, 2013 (Public Law 113-6; 127 Stat. 
    322), and section 8107 of the Consolidated and Further Continuing 
    Appropriations Act, 2015 (Public Law 113-235; 128 Stat. 2255).
    (b) Comptroller General Evaluation.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of the submission of the report under subsection (a), the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an evaluation of the updated 
assessment prepared by the Secretary of Defense under paragraph (1) of 
subsection (a), including an evaluation of the accuracy and analytical 
sufficiency of the updated assessment.
SEC. 2815. PRIOR CERTIFICATION REQUIRED FOR USE OF DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE FACILITIES BY OTHER FEDERAL AGENCIES FOR TEMPORARY HOUSING 
SUPPORT.
    The Secretary of Defense shall not sign a memorandum of agreement 
with another Federal agency to provide the agency with a vacant 
facility for purposes of temporary housing support unless the Secretary 
first submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and Senate a certification that the provision of the 
facility to the agency for such purpose will not negatively affect 
military training, operations, readiness, or other military 
requirements, including National Guard and Reserve readiness.

                      Subtitle C--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2821. LAND CONVEYANCE, HIGH FREQUENCY ACTIVE AURORAL RESEARCH 
PROGRAM FACILITY AND ADJACENT PROPERTY, GAKONA, ALASKA.
    (a) Conveyances Authorized.--
        (1) Conveyance to university of alaska.--The Secretary of the 
    Air Force may convey to the University of Alaska (in this section 
    referred to as the ``University'') all right, title, and interest 
    of the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including 
    improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 1,158 acres near 
    the Gulkana Village, Alaska, which was purchased by the Secretary 
    of the Air Force from Ahtna, Incorporated, in January 1989, contain 
    a High Frequency Active Auroral Research Program facility, and 
    comprise a portion of the property more particularly described in 
    subsection (b), for the purpose of permitting the University to use 
    the conveyed property for public purposes.
        (2) Conveyance to alaska native corporation.--The Secretary of 
    the Air Force may convey to Ahtna, Incorporated (in this section 
    referred to as ``Ahtna''), all right, title, and interest of the 
    United States in and to a parcel of real property, including 
    improvements thereon, consisting of approximately 4,259 acres near 
    Gulkana Village, Alaska, which was purchased by the Secretary of 
    the Air Force from Ahtna, Incorporated, in January 1989 and 
    comprise the portion of the property more particularly described in 
    subsection (b) that does not contain the High Frequency Active 
    Auroral Research Program facility. The property to be conveyed 
    under this paragraph does not include any of the property 
    authorized for conveyance to the University under paragraph (1).
    (b) Property Described.--Subject to the property exclusions 
specified in subsection (c), the real property authorized for 
conveyance under subsection (a) consists of portions of sections within 
township 7 north, range 1 east; township 7 north, range 2 east; 
township 8 north, range 1 east; and township 8 north, range 2 east; 
Copper River Meridian, Chitina Recording District, Third Judicial 
District, State of Alaska, as follows:
        (1) Township 7 north, range 1 east:
            (A) Section 1.
            (B) E\1/2\, S\1/2\NW\1/4\, SW\1/4\ of section 2.
            (C) S\1/2\SE\1/4\, NE\1/4\SE\1/4\ of section 3.
            (D) E\1/2\ of section 10.
            (E) Sections 11 and 12.
            (F) That portion of N\1/2\, N\1/2\S\1/2\ of section 13, 
        excluding all lands lying southerly and easterly of the Glenn 
        Highway right-of-way.
            (G) N\1/2\, N\1/2\S\1/2\ of section 14.
            (H) NE\1/4\, NE\1/4\SE\1/4\ of section 15.
        (2) Township 7 north, range 2 east:
            (A) W\1/2\ of section 6.
            (B) NW\1/4\ of section 7, and the portion of N\1/2\SW\1/4\ 
        and NW\1/4\SE\1/4\ of such section lying northerly of the Glenn 
        Highway right-of-way.
        (3) Township 8 north, range 1 east:
            (A) SE\1/4\SE\1/4\ of section 35.
            (B) E\1/2\, SW\1/4\, SE\1/4\NW\1/4\ of section 36.
        (4) Township 8 north, range 2 east:
            (A) W\1/2\ of section 31.
    (c) Exclusion of Certain Property.--The real property authorized 
for conveyance under subsection (a) may not include the following:
        (1) Public easements reserved pursuant to section 17(b) of the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1616(b)), as 
    described in the Warranty Deed from Ahtna, Incorporated, to the 
    United States, dated March 1, 1990, recorded in Book 31, pages 665 
    through 668 in the Chitina Recording District, Third Judicial 
    District, Alaska.
        (2) Easement for an existing trail as described in such 
    Warranty Deed from Ahtna, Incorporated, to the United States.
        (3) The subsurface estate.
    (d) Consideration.--
        (1) Conveyance to university.--As consideration for the 
    conveyance of property under subsection (a)(1), the University 
    shall provide the United States with consideration in an amount 
    that is acceptable to the Secretary of the Air Force, whether in 
    the form of cash payment, in-kind consideration, or a combination 
    thereof.
        (2) Conveyance to ahtna.--As consideration for the conveyance 
    of property under subsection (a)(2), Ahtna shall provide the United 
    States with consideration in an amount that is acceptable to the 
    Secretary, whether in the form of cash payment, in-kind 
    consideration, a land exchange under the Alaska Native Claims 
    Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), or a combination thereof.
        (3) Treatment of cash consideration received.--Any cash payment 
    received by the Secretary as consideration for a conveyance under 
    subsection (a) shall be deposited in the special account in the 
    Treasury established under subsection (b) of section 572 of title 
    40, United States Code, and shall be available in accordance with 
    paragraph (5)(B) of such subsection.
    (e) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines at any time that the real property conveyed under subsection 
(a)(1) is not being used by the University in accordance with the 
purposes of the conveyance specified in such subsection, all right, 
title, and interest in and to the property, including any improvements 
thereto, shall, at the option of the Secretary, revert to and become 
the property of the United States, and the United States shall have the 
right of immediate entry onto such property. A determination by the 
Secretary under this subsection shall be made on the record after an 
opportunity for a hearing.
    (f) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    require the recipient of real property under this section to cover 
    all costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse the 
    Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry out 
    the conveyance of that property, including survey costs, costs for 
    environmental documentation, and any other administrative costs 
    related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected in advance of 
    the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected 
    exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out 
    the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the 
    recipient.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out a conveyance under this section shall be credited and 
    made available to the Secretary as provided in section 2695(c) of 
    title 10, United States Code.
    (g) Conveyance Agreement.--The conveyance of property under this 
section shall be accomplished using a quitclaim deed or other legal 
instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the 
Secretary of the Air Force and the recipient of the property, including 
such additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2822. LAND CONVEYANCE, CAMPION AIR FORCE RADAR STATION, GALENA, 
ALASKA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Air Force may 
convey, without consideration, to the Town of Galena, Alaska (in this 
section referred to as the ``Town''), all right, title, and interest of 
the United States in and to a parcel of real property, including 
improvements thereon, at the former Campion Air Force Station, Alaska, 
as further described in subsection (b), for the purpose of permitting 
the Town to use the conveyed property for public purposes. The 
conveyance under this subsection is subject to valid existing rights.
    (b) Description of Property.--The property to be conveyed under 
subsection (a) consists of up to approximately 1,300 acres of the 
remaining land withdrawn under Public Land Order No. 843 of June 24, 
1952, and Public Land Order No. 1405 of April 4, 1957, for use by the 
Secretary of the Air Force as the former Campion Air Force Station. The 
portions of the former Air Force Station that are not authorized to be 
conveyed under subsection (a) are those portions that are subject to 
environmental land use restrictions or are undergoing environmental 
remediation by the Secretary of the Air Force as of the date of such 
conveyance.
    (c) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines at any time that the real property conveyed under subsection 
(a) is not being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance 
specified in such subsection, all right, title, and interest in and to 
the land, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option of 
the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United States, 
and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry onto such 
real property. A determination by the Secretary under this subsection 
shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a hearing.
    (d) Conveyance Agreement.--The conveyance of land under this 
section shall be accomplished using a quitclaim deed or other legal 
instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the 
Secretary of the Air Force, after consulting with the Secretary of the 
Interior, and the Town, including such additional terms and conditions 
as the Secretary of the Air Force, after consulting with the Secretary 
of the Interior, considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States.
    (e) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    require the Town to cover all costs (except costs for environmental 
    remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary of the 
    Air Force and by the Secretary of the Interior, or to reimburse the 
    appropriate Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to 
    carry out the conveyance under this section, including survey 
    costs, costs for environmental documentation, and any other 
    administrative costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are 
    collected from the Town in advance of the Secretary incurring the 
    actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually 
    incurred by the Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the 
    appropriate Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the Town.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    of the Air Force or by the Secretary of the Interior to carry out 
    the conveyance under subsection (a) shall be credited to the fund 
    or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the 
    appropriate Secretary in carrying out the conveyance, or to an 
    appropriate fund or account currently available to the appropriate 
    Secretary for the purposes for which the costs were paid. Amounts 
    so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account 
    and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject to the 
    same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
    account.
    (f) Map and Legal Description.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, in 
consultation with the Secretary of the Interior, shall finalize a map 
and the legal description of the real property to be conveyed under 
subsection (a). The Secretary of the Air Force may correct any minor 
errors in the map or the legal description. The map and legal 
description shall be on file and available for public inspection in the 
appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.
    (g) Supersedence of Public Land Orders.--Public Land Order Nos. 843 
and 1405 are hereby superseded, but only insofar as the orders affect 
the lands conveyed to the Town under subsection (a).
SEC. 2823. LEASE, JOINT BASE ELMENDORF-RICHARDSON, ALASKA.
    (a) Leases Authorized.--
        (1) Lease to municipality of anchorage.--The Secretary of the 
    Air Force may lease to the Municipality of Anchorage, Alaska, 
    certain real property, to include improvements thereon, at Joint 
    Base Elmendorf-Richardson (``JBER''), Alaska, as more particularly 
    described in subsection (b) for the purpose of permitting the 
    Municipality to use the leased property for recreational purposes.
        (2) Lease to mountain view lions club.--The Secretary of the 
    Air Force may lease to the Mountain View Lions Club certain real 
    property, to include improvements thereon, at JBER, as more 
    particularly described in subsection (b) for the purpose of the 
    installation, operation, maintenance, protection, repair, and 
    removal of recreational equipment.
    (b) Description of Property.--
        (1) The real property to be leased under subsection (a)(1) 
    consists of the real property described in Department of the Air 
    Force Lease No. DACA85-1-99-14.
        (2) The real property to be leased under subsection (a)(2) 
    consists of real property described in Department of the Air Force 
    Lease No. DACA85-1-97-36.
    (c) Term and Conditions of Leases.--
        (1) Term of leases.--The term of the leases authorized under 
    subsection (a) shall not exceed 25 years.
        (2) Other terms and conditions.--Except as otherwise provided 
    in this section--
            (A) the remaining terms and conditions of the lease under 
        subsection (a)(1) shall consist of the same terms and 
        conditions described in Department of the Air Force Lease No. 
        DACA85-1-99-14; and
            (B) the remaining terms and conditions of the lease under 
        subsection (a)(2) shall consist of the same terms and 
        conditions described in Department of the Air Force Lease No. 
        DACA85-1-97-36.
    (d) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the leases 
under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2824. TRANSFER OF ADMINISTRATIVE JURISDICTIONS, NAVAJO ARMY DEPOT, 
ARIZONA.
    (a) In General.--All administrative jurisdiction of the Secretary 
of Agriculture over 28,423 acres of National Forest System land located 
within the Kaibab National Forest and the Coconino National Forest 
shown on the map entitled ``Navajo Army Depot Jurisdiction'' and dated 
July 19, 2016, is hereby transferred to the Secretary of the Army.
    (b) Volunteer Mountain Lookout.--
        (1) Agreement.--The Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of 
    Agriculture shall enter into an agreement to authorize the 
    Secretary of Agriculture to occupy, access by vehicle, and use 
    Volunteer Mountain Lookout for the purposes of wildfire detection 
    and reporting for as long as needed by the Secretary of 
    Agriculture.
        (2) Maintenance.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall be 
    responsible for maintaining the Volunteer Mountain Lookout 
    structure. The Secretary of the Army, in coordination with the 
    Secretary of Agriculture, shall be responsible for maintaining road 
    access to Volunteer Mountain Lookout.
    (c) Restoration or Remediation.--The Secretary of the Army shall be 
responsible for, and fund any environmental restoration or remediation 
that is required for, the abatement of any release of hazardous 
substances, pollutants, contaminants, or petroleum products on the land 
referenced in subsection (a), and shall hold harmless the Secretary of 
Agriculture from any financial obligation to contribute to any such 
restoration or remediation.
    (d) Revocation.--Public Land Order 59 (dated November 12, 1942) and 
Public Land Order 176 (dated September 29, 1943) are hereby revoked.
    (e) Reversionary Interest.--On the request of the owners of the 
Camp Navajo railroad 1 parcel and the Camp Navajo railroad 2 parcel, 
any reversionary interest of the United States pursuant to the Act of 
July 27, 1866 (14 Stat. 292, chapter 278), in and to the Camp Navajo 
railroad 1 parcel shall be transferred to the Camp Navajo railroad 2 
parcel.
    (f) Release.--On transfer of the reversionary interest under 
subsection (e), the Camp Navajo railroad 1 parcel shall no longer be 
subject to the reversionary interest described in that subsection.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Camp navajo railroad 1 parcel.--The term ``Camp Navajo 
    railroad 1 parcel'' means the land described in the deed recorded 
    in Coconino County, Arizona, on October 6, 2014, as document number 
    3703647.
        (2) Camp navajo railroad 2 parcel.--The term ``Camp Navajo 
    railroad 2 parcel'' means the parcel of land as described in the 
    deed recorded in Coconino County, Arizona, on June 2, 2006, as 
    document number 3386576.
SEC. 2825. EXCHANGE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS, SAN DIEGO UNIFIED PORT 
DISTRICT, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Exchange of Property Interests Authorized.--
        (1) Interests to be conveyed.--The Secretary of the Navy 
    (hereafter referred to as the ``Secretary'') may convey to the San 
    Diego Unified Port District (hereafter referred to as the 
    ``District'') all right, title, and interest of the United States 
    in and to a parcel of real property, including any improvements 
    thereon and, without limitation, any leasehold interests of the 
    United States therein, consisting of approximately 0.33 acres and 
    identified as Parcel No. 4 on District Drawing No. 018-107 (April 
    2013). This parcel contains 48 parking spaces central to the 
    mission conducted on the site of the Navy's leasehold interest at 
    1220 Pacific Highway, San Diego, California.
        (2) Interests to be acquired.--In exchange for the property 
    interests described in paragraph (1), the Secretary may accept from 
    the District property interests of equal value and similar utility, 
    as determined by the Secretary, located within immediate proximity 
    to the property described in paragraph (1), that provide the rights 
    to an equivalent number of parking spaces of equal value (subject 
    to subsection (c)(1)).
    (b) Encumbrances.--
        (1) No acceptance of property with encumbrances precluding use 
    as parking spaces.--In an exchange of property interests under 
    subsection (a), the Secretary may not accept any property under 
    subsection (a)(2) unless the property is free of encumbrances that 
    would preclude the Department of the Navy from using the property 
    for parking spaces, as determined under paragraph (2).
        (2) Determination of freedom from encumbrances.--For purposes 
    of paragraph (1), a property shall be considered to be free of 
    encumbrances that would preclude the Department of the Navy from 
    using the property for parking spaces if--
            (A) the District guarantees and certifies that the property 
        is free of such encumbrances under its own authority to 
        preclude the use of the property for parking spaces; and
            (B) the District obtains guarantees and certifications from 
        appropriate entities of the State and units of local government 
        that the property is free of any such encumbrances that may be 
        in place pursuant to the Tidelands Trust, the North Embarcadero 
        Visionary Plan, the Downtown Community Plan, or any other law, 
        regulation, plan, or document.
    (c) Equalization.--
        (1) Transfer of rights to additional parking spaces.--If the 
    value of the property interests described in subsection (a)(1) is 
    greater than the value of the property interests and rights to 
    parking spaces described in subsection (a)(2), the values shall be 
    equalized by the transfer to the Secretary of rights to additional 
    parking spaces.
        (2) No authorization of cash equalization payments from 
    secretary.--If the value of the property interests and parking 
    rights described in subsection (a)(2) are greater than the value of 
    the property interests described in subsection (a)(1), the 
    Secretary may not make a cash equalization payment to equalize the 
    values.
    (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary shall require the District 
    to cover all costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse 
    the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
    out the exchange of property interests under this section, 
    including survey costs, costs related to environmental 
    documentation, real estate due diligence such as appraisals, and 
    any other administrative costs related to the exchange of property 
    interests. If amounts are collected from the District in advance of 
    the Secretary incurring the actual costs and the amount collected 
    exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out 
    the exchange of property interests, the Secretary shall refund the 
    excess amount to the District.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the exchange of property interests. 
    Amounts so credited shall be merged with amounts in such fund or 
    account and shall be available for the same purposes, and subject 
    to the same conditions and limitations, as amounts in such fund or 
    account.
    (e) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property interests to be exchanged under this 
section shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (f) Conveyance Agreement.--The exchange of property interests under 
this section shall be accomplished using a lease, lease amendment, or 
other legal instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually 
satisfactory to the Secretary and the District, including such 
additional terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2826. RELEASE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS RETAINED IN CONNECTION WITH 
LAND CONVEYANCE, EGLIN AIR FORCE BASE, FLORIDA.
    (a) Release of Exceptions, Limitations, and Conditions in Deeds.--
With respect to approximately 126 acres of real property in Okaloosa 
County, Florida, more particularly described in subsection (b), which 
were conveyed by the United States to the Air Force Enlisted Mens' 
Widows and Dependents Home Foundation, Incorporated (``Air Force 
Enlisted Village''), the Secretary of the Air Force may release, 
without consideration, any and all exceptions, limitations, and 
conditions specified by the United States in the deeds conveying such 
real property.
    (b) Property Described.--The real property subject to subsection 
(a) was part of Eglin Air Force, Florida, and consists of all parcels 
conveyed in exchange for fair market value cash payment by the Air 
Force Enlisted Village pursuant to section 809(c) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act, 1979 (Public Law 95-356; 92 Stat. 587), 
as amended by section 2826 of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act, 1989 (Public Law 100-456; 102 Stat. 2123), and section 2861 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public 
Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 2223).
    (c) Instrument of Release and Description of Property.--The 
Secretary may execute and record in the appropriate office a deed of 
release, amended deed, or other appropriate instrument reflecting the 
release of exceptions, limitations, and conditions under subsection 
(a).
    (d) Payment of Administrative Costs.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary may require the Air Force 
    Enlisted Village to pay for any costs to be incurred by the 
    Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the 
    Secretary, to carry out the release under subsection (a), including 
    survey costs, costs related to environmental documentation, and 
    other administrative costs related to the release. If amounts paid 
    to the Secretary in advance exceed the costs actually incurred by 
    the Secretary to carry out the release, the Secretary shall refund 
    the excess amount to the Air Force Enlisted Village.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the release under subsection (a) shall be credited and 
    made available to the Secretary as provided in section 2695(c) of 
    title 10, United States Code.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the release of 
exceptions, limitations, and conditions under subsection (a) as the 
Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United 
States.
SEC. 2827. LAND EXCHANGE, FORT HOOD, TEXAS.
    (a) Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may convey to 
the City of Copperas Cove, Texas (in this section referred to as the 
``City''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
consisting of approximately 437 acres at Fort Hood, Texas, for the 
purpose of permitting the City to improve arterial transportation 
routes in the vicinity of Fort Hood and to promote economic development 
in the area of the City and Fort Hood.
    (b) Consideration.--As consideration for the conveyance under 
subsection (a), the City shall convey to the Secretary of the Army all 
right, title, and interest of the City in and to one or more parcels of 
real property that are acceptable to the Secretary. The fair market 
value of the real property acquired by the Secretary under this 
subsection shall be at least equal to the fair market value of the real 
property conveyed under subsection (a), as determined by appraisals 
acceptable to the Secretary.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be exchanged under this section 
shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
Army.
    (d) Payment of Costs of Conveyances.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall require 
    the City to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to 
    reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, to 
    carry out the conveyances under this section, including survey 
    costs related to the conveyances. If amounts are collected from the 
    City in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and 
    the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
    Secretary to carry out the conveyances, the Secretary shall refund 
    the excess amount to the City.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the conveyances under this section shall be credited 
    to the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by 
    the Secretary in carrying out the conveyances. Amounts so credited 
    shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
conveyances under this section as the Secretary considers appropriate 
to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2828. LAND CONVEYANCE, P-36 WAREHOUSE, COLBERN UNITED STATES ARMY 
RESERVE CENTER, LAREDO, TEXAS.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Army may convey, 
without consideration, to the Laredo Community College (in this section 
referred to as the ``LCC'') all right, title, and interest of the 
United States in and to a parcel of real property consisting of 
approximately 0.077 acres, including the approximately 725 sq. ft. 
Historic Building, P-36 Warehouse, and other improvements thereon, at 
Colbern United States Army Reserve Center, Laredo, Texas, for the 
purposes of educational use and historic preservation.
    (b) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall require 
    the LCC to cover costs (except costs for environmental remediation 
    of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to reimburse 
    the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, to carry 
    out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey costs, 
    costs for environmental documentation, and any other administrative 
    costs related to the conveyance. If amounts are collected from the 
    LCC in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the 
    amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the 
    Secretary to carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund 
    the excess amount to the LCC.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the conveyance. Amounts so credited shall 
    be merged with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) shall 
be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
    (d) Reversionary Interest.--
        (1) Reversion.--If the Secretary of the Army determines at any 
    time that the property conveyed under subsection (a) is not being 
    used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance specified in 
    subsection (a), all right, title, and interest in and to such 
    property, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option 
    of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United 
    States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate 
    entry onto such property. A determination by the Secretary under 
    this paragraph shall be made on the record after an opportunity for 
    a hearing.
        (2) Payment of consideration in lieu of reversion.--In lieu of 
    exercising the right of reversion retained under paragraph (1) with 
    respect to the property conveyed under subsection (a), the 
    Secretary may require the LCC to pay to the United States an amount 
    equal to the fair market value of the property conveyed, as 
    determined by the Secretary.
        (3) Treatment of cash consideration.--Any cash payment received 
    by the United States under paragraph (2) shall be deposited in the 
    special account in the Treasury established under subsection (b) of 
    section 572 of title 40, United States Code, and shall be available 
    in accordance with paragraph (5)(B) of such subsection.
    (e) Additional Terms.--The Secretary of the Army may require such 
additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyance under 
subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.
SEC. 2829. LAND CONVEYANCE, ST. GEORGE NATIONAL GUARD ARMORY, ST. 
GEORGE, UTAH.
    (a) Land Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of the Interior may 
convey, without consideration, to the State of Utah all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of public land in 
St. George, Utah, comprising approximately 70 acres, as described in 
Public Land Order 6840 published in the Federal Register on March 29, 
1991 (56 Fed. Reg. 13081), and containing the St. George National Guard 
Armory for the purpose of permitting the Utah National Guard to use the 
conveyed land for military purposes.
    (b) Termination of Prior Administrative Action.--The Public Land 
Order described in subsection (a), which provided for a 20-year 
withdrawal of the public land described in the Public Land Order, is 
withdrawn upon conveyance of the land under this section.
    (c) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under this section shall be 
determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of the Interior.
    (d) Conveyance Agreement.--The conveyance under this section shall 
be accomplished using a quitclaim deed or other legal instrument and 
upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the Secretary of the 
Interior and the State of Utah, including such additional terms and 
conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.
    (e) Reversionary Interest.--If the Secretary of the Interior 
determines at any time that the property conveyed under subsection (a) 
is not being used in accordance with the purpose of the conveyance 
specified in subsection (a), all right, title, and interest in and to 
such property, including any improvements thereto, shall, at the option 
of the Secretary, revert to and become the property of the United 
States, and the United States shall have the right of immediate entry 
onto such property. A determination by the Secretary under this 
paragraph shall be made on the record after an opportunity for a 
hearing.
SEC. 2829A. LAND ACQUISITIONS, ARLINGTON COUNTY, VIRGINIA.
    (a) Acquisition Authorized.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Army may acquire by 
    purchase, exchange, donation, or by other means, including 
    condemnation, which the Secretary determines is sufficient for the 
    expansion of Arlington National Cemetery for purposes of ensuring 
    maximization of interment sites and compatible use of adjacent 
    properties, including any appropriate cemetery or memorial parking, 
    all right, title, and interest in and to land--
            (A) from Arlington County (in this section referred to as 
        the ``County''), one or more parcels of real property in the 
        area known as the Southgate Road right-of-way, Columbia Pike 
        right-of-way, and South Joyce Street right-of-way located in 
        Arlington County, Virginia; and
            (B) from the Commonwealth of Virginia (in this section 
        referred to as the ``Commonwealth''), one or more parcels of 
        property in the area known as the Columbia Pike right-of-way, 
        including the Washington Boulevard-Columbia Pike interchange, 
        but excluding the Virginia Department of Transportation 
        Maintenance and Operations Facility.
        (2) Selection of property for acquisition.--The Memorandum of 
    Understanding between the Department of the Army and Arlington 
    County signed in January 2013 shall be used as a guide in 
    determining the properties to be acquired under this section to 
    expand Arlington National Cemetery to the maximum extent 
    practicable. After consultation with the Commonwealth and the 
    County, the Secretary shall determine the exact parcels to be 
    acquired, and such determination shall be final. In selecting the 
    properties to be acquired under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
    seek--
            (A) to remove existing barriers to the expansion of 
        Arlington National Cemetery north of Columbia Pike through a 
        realignment of Southgate Road to the western boundary of the 
        former Navy Annex site; and
            (B) to support the realignment and straightening of 
        Columbia Pike and redesign of the Washington Boulevard-Columbia 
        Pike interchange.
        (3) Consideration.--The Secretary is authorized to expend 
    amounts up to fair market value consideration for the interests in 
    land acquired under this subsection.
    (b) Exchange Authorized.--
        (1) Exchange.--In carrying out the acquisition authorized in 
    subsection (a), in lieu of the consideration authorized under 
    subsection (a)(3), the Secretary may convey through land exchange--
            (A) to the County, all right, title, and interest of the 
        United States in and to one or more parcels of real property, 
        together with any improvements thereon, located south of 
        current Columbia Pike and west of South Joyce Street in 
        Arlington County, Virginia;
            (B) to the Commonwealth, all right, title, and interest of 
        the United States in and to one or more parcels of property 
        east of Joyce Street in Arlington County, Virginia, necessary 
        for the realignment of Columbia Pike and the Washington 
        Boulevard-Columbia Pike interchange, as well as for future 
        improvements to Interstate 395 ramps; and
            (C) to either the County or the Commonwealth, other real 
        property under control of the Secretary determined by the 
        Secretary to be excess to the needs of the Army.
        (2) Exchange value.--
            (A) Minimum value.--The Secretary shall obtain no less than 
        fair market value consideration for any property conveyed under 
        this subsection.
            (B) Cash equalization.--Where the value of property to be 
        exchanged is greater than the value of property to be acquired 
        by the Secretary, the Secretary may accept cash equalization 
        payments.
            (C) Treatment of cash consideration received.--Any cash 
        payment received by the United States as consideration for the 
        conveyance under subparagraph (B) shall be deposited in the 
        special account in the Treasury established under subsection 
        (b) of section 572 of title 40, United States Code, and shall 
        be available in accordance with paragraph (5)(B) of such 
        subsection or, in the case of conveyance of excess property 
        located on a military installation closed under the Defense 
        Base Closure and Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX 
        of Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note), shall be deposited 
        in the special account established under section 2906 of such 
        Act.
    (c) Appraisals.--The value of property to be acquired or conveyed 
under this section shall be determined by appraisals acceptable to the 
Secretary.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property to be acquired or conveyed under this 
section shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary, 
in consultation with the Commonwealth and the County where practicable.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with transactions 
authorized under this section as is considered appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.
    (f) Repeal of Authority.--Section 2841 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3712) is repealed.
SEC. 2829B. RELEASE OF RESTRICTIONS, RICHLAND INNOVATION CENTER, 
RICHLAND, WASHINGTON.
    (a) Release Authorized.--The Secretary of Transportation, acting 
through the Maritime Administrator and in consultation with the 
Administrator of General Services, may, upon receipt of full 
consideration as provided in subsection (b), release all remaining 
right, title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of 
real property, including any improvements thereon, in Richland, 
Washington, consisting as of the date of the enactment of this Act of 
approximately 71.5 acres and containing personal and real property, to 
the Port of Benton (hereafter in this section referred to as the 
``Port'').
    (b) Consideration.--
        (1) Consideration required.--As consideration for the release 
    under subsection (a), the Port shall provide an amount that is 
    acceptable to the Secretary of Transportation, whether by cash 
    payment, in-kind consideration as described under paragraph (2), or 
    a combination thereof, at such time as the Secretary may require. 
    The Secretary may determine the level of acceptable consideration 
    under this paragraph on the basis of the value of the restrictions 
    released under subsection (a), but only if the value of such 
    restrictions is determined without regard to any improvements made 
    by the Port.
        (2) In-kind consideration.--In-kind consideration provided by 
    the Port under paragraph (1) may include the acquisition, 
    construction, provision, improvement, maintenance, repair, or 
    restoration (including environmental restoration), or combination 
    thereof, of any facility or infrastructure under the jurisdiction 
    of any office of the Federal Government.
        (3) Treatment of consideration received.--Consideration in the 
    form of cash payment received by the Secretary under paragraph (1) 
    shall be deposited in the separate fund in the Treasury described 
    in section 572(a)(1) of title 40, United States Code.
    (c) Payment of Cost of Release.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
    require the Port to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or 
    to reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the 
    Secretary, to carry out the release under subsection (a), including 
    survey costs, costs for environmental documentation related to the 
    release, and any other administrative costs related to the release. 
    If amounts are collected from the Port in advance of the Secretary 
    incurring the actual costs, and the amount collected exceeds the 
    costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the release, 
    the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the Port.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover the costs incurred by the Secretary 
    in carrying out the release under subsection (a) or, if the period 
    of availability of obligations for that appropriation has expired, 
    to the appropriations of fund that is currently available to the 
    Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged 
    with amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the 
    same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, 
    as amounts in such fund or account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the real property which is the subject of the release 
under subsection (a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to 
the Secretary of Transportation.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of 
Transportation may require such additional terms and conditions in 
connection with the release under subsection (a) as the Secretary, in 
consultation with the Administrator of General Services, considers 
appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2829C. MODIFICATION OF LAND CONVEYANCE, ROCKY MOUNTAIN ARSENAL 
NATIONAL WILDLIFE REFUGE.
    Section 5(d)(1) of the Rocky Mountain Arsenal National Wildlife 
Refuge Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-402; 16 U.S.C. 668dd note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(C)(i) Notwithstanding clause (i) of subparagraph (A), the 
    restriction attached to any deed to any real property designated 
    for disposal under this section that prohibits the use of the 
    property for residential or industrial purposes may be modified or 
    removed if a determination is made that the property will be 
    protective of human health and the environment for the proposed use 
    with an adequate margin of safety following the modification or 
    removal of the restriction.
        ``(ii) The determination described in clause (i) shall be made 
    after--
            ``(I) the performance of a risk assessment pursuant to the 
        Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and 
        Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.); and
            ``(II) the completion of response actions that are 
        necessary to protect human health and the environment to allow 
        for the proposed use.
        ``(iii) The Secretary of the Army shall not be responsible or 
    liable for any of the following:
            ``(I) The cost of the risk assessment performed under 
        subclause (I) of clause (ii) or any response actions described 
        in subclause (II) of clause (ii).
            ``(II) Any damages attributable to the use of property for 
        residential or industrial purposes as the result of the 
        modification or removal of a deed restriction pursuant to 
        clause (i), or the costs of any actions taken in response to 
        such damages.''.
SEC. 2829D. CLOSURE OF ST. MARYS AIRPORT.
    (a) Release of Restrictions.--Subject to subsection (b), the United 
States, acting through the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration, shall release the city of St. Marys, Georgia, from all 
restrictions, conditions, and limitations on the use, encumbrance, 
conveyance, and closure of the St. Marys Airport, to the extent such 
restrictions, conditions, and limitations are enforceable by the 
Administrator.
    (b) Requirements for Release of Restrictions.--The Administrator 
shall execute the release under subsection (a) once all of the 
following occurs:
        (1) The Secretary of the Navy transfers to the Georgia 
    Department of Transportation the amounts described in subsection 
    (c) and requires as an enforceable condition on such transfer that 
    all funds transferred shall be used only for airport development 
    (as defined in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code) of a 
    general aviation airport in Georgia, consistent with planning 
    efforts conducted by the Administrator and the Georgia Department 
    of Transportation.
        (2) The city of St. Marys, for consideration as provided for in 
    this section, grants to the United States, under the administrative 
    jurisdiction of the Secretary, a restrictive use easement in the 
    real property used for the St. Marys Airport, as determined 
    acceptable by the Secretary, under such terms and conditions as the 
    Secretary considers necessary to protect the interests of the 
    United States and prohibiting the future use of such property for 
    all aviation-related purposes and any other purposes deemed by the 
    Secretary to be incompatible with the operations, functions, and 
    missions of Naval Submarine Base, Kings Bay, Georgia.
        (3) The Secretary obtains an appraisal to determine the fair 
    market value of the real property used for the St. Marys Airport in 
    the manner described in subsection (c)(1).
        (4) The Administrator fulfills the obligations under the 
    National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) 
    in connection with the release under subsection (a). In carrying 
    out such obligations--
            (A) the Administrator shall not assume or consider any 
        potential or proposed future redevelopment of the current St. 
        Marys airport property;
            (B) any potential new general aviation airport in Georgia 
        shall be deemed to be not connected with the release noted in 
        subsection (a) nor the closure of St. Marys Airport; and
            (C) any environmental review under the National 
        Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) for a 
        potential general aviation airport in Georgia shall be 
        considered through an environmental review process separate and 
        apart from the environmental review made a condition of release 
        by this section.
    (c) Transfer of Amounts Described.--The amounts described in this 
subsection are the following:
        (1) An amount equal to the fair market value of the real 
    property of the St. Marys Airport, as determined by the Secretary 
    and concurred in by the Administrator, based on an appraisal report 
    and title documentation that--
            (A) is prepared or adopted by the Secretary, and concurred 
        in by the Administrator, not more than 180 days prior to the 
        transfer described in subsection (b)(1); and
            (B) meets all requirements of Federal law and the appraisal 
        and documentation standards applicable to the acquisition and 
        disposal of real property interests of the United States.
        (2) An amount equal to the unamortized portion of any Federal 
    development grants (including grants available under a State block 
    grant program established pursuant to section 47128 of title 49, 
    United States Code), other than used for the acquisition of land, 
    paid to the city of St. Marys for use as the St. Marys Airport.
        (3) An amount equal to the airport revenues remaining in the 
    airport account for the St. Marys Airport as of the date of the 
    enactment of this Act and as otherwise due to or received by the 
    city of St. Marys after such date of enactment pursuant to sections 
    47107(b) and 47133 of title 49, United States Code.
    (d) Authorization for Transfer of Funds.--Using funds available to 
the Department of the Navy for operation and maintenance, the Secretary 
may pay the amounts described in subsection (c) to the Georgia 
Department of Transportation, conditioned as described in subsection 
(b)(1).
    (e) Additional Requirements.--
        (1) Survey.--The exact acreage and legal description of St. 
    Marys Airport shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the 
    Secretary and concurred in by the Administrator.
        (2) Planning of general aviation airport.--Any planning effort 
    for the development of a new general aviation airport in southeast 
    Georgia using the amounts described in subsection (c) shall be 
    conducted in coordination with the Secretary, and shall ensure that 
    any such airport does not encroach on the operations, functions, 
    and missions of Naval Submarine Base, Kings Bay, Georgia.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
to limit the applicability of--
        (1) the requirements and processes under section 46319 of title 
    49, United States Code;
        (2) the requirements and processes under part 157 of title 14, 
    Code of Federal Regulations; or
        (3) the public notice requirements under section 47107(h)(2) of 
    title 49, United States Code.
SEC. 2829E. TRANSFER OF FORT BELVOIR MARK CENTER CAMPUS FROM THE 
SECRETARY OF THE ARMY TO THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE AND APPLICABILITY OF 
CERTAIN PROVISIONS OF LAW RELATING TO THE PENTAGON RESERVATION.
    (a) Inclusion of Mark Center Campus Under Pentagon Reservation 
Authorities.--
        (1) Definition of pentagon reservation.--Paragraph (1) of 
    subsection (f) of section 2674 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) The term `Pentagon Reservation' means the Pentagon, the 
    Mark Center Campus, and the Raven Rock Mountain Complex.''.
        (2) Other definitions.--Such subsection is further amended by 
    adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(3) The term `Pentagon' means that area of land (consisting 
    of approximately 227 acres) and improvements thereon, including 
    parking areas, located in Arlington County, Virginia, containing 
    the Pentagon Office Building and its supporting facilities.
        ``(4) The term `Mark Center Campus' means that area of land 
    (consisting of approximately 16 acres) and improvements thereon, 
    including parking areas, located in Alexandria, Virginia, and known 
    on the day before the date of the enactment of this paragraph as 
    the Fort Belvoir Mark Center Campus.
        ``(5) The term `Raven Rock Mountain Complex' means that area of 
    land (consisting of approximately 720 acres) and improvements 
    thereon, including parking areas, at the Raven Rock Mountain 
    Complex and its supporting facilities located in Maryland and 
    Pennsylvania.''.
        (3) Conforming amendment relating to law enforcement 
    authority.--Subsection (b)(1) of such section is amended by 
    inserting ``for the Pentagon Reservation and'' after ``law 
    enforcement and security functions''.
        (4) Conforming amendment relating to definitions.--Subsection 
    (g) of such section is repealed.
    (b) Update to Reference to Secretary of Defense Authority.--
Subsection (a) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Jurisdiction'' and inserting ``The Secretary 
    of Defense has jurisdiction''; and
        (2) by striking ``is transferred to the Secretary of Defense''.
    (c) Repeal of Obsolete Reporting Requirement.--Such subsection is 
further amended--
        (1) by striking ``(1)'' after ``(a)''; and
        (2) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3).
    (d) Subsection Captions.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), as amended by subsection (c) of this 
    section, by inserting ``Pentagon Reservation.--'' after ``(a)'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``(b)(1)'' and inserting `` 
    (b) Law Enforcement Authorities and Personnel.--(1)'';
        (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``(c)(1)'' and inserting `` 
    (c) Regulations and Enforcement.--(1)'';
        (4) in subsection (d), by inserting ``Authority To Charge for 
    Provision of Certain Services and Facilities.--'' after ``(d)'';
        (5) in subsection (e), by striking ``(e)(1)'' and inserting `` 
    (e) Pentagon Reservation Maintenance Revolving Fund.--(1)''; and
        (6) in subsection (f), by inserting ``Definitions.--'' after 
    ``(f)''.
SEC. 2829F. RETURN OF CERTAIN LANDS AT FORT WINGATE, NEW MEXICO, TO THE 
ORIGINAL INHABITANTS.
    (a) Division and Treatment of Lands of Former Fort Wingate Depot 
Activity, New Mexico, to Benefit the Zuni Tribe and Navajo Nation.--
        (1) Immediate trust on behalf of zuni tribe; exception.--
    Subject to valid existing rights and to easements reserved pursuant 
    to subsection (b), all right, title, and interest of the United 
    States in and to the lands of Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity 
    depicted in dark blue on the map titled ``The Fort Wingate Depot 
    Activity Negotiated Property Division April 2016'' (in this section 
    referred to as the ``Map'') and transferred to the Secretary of the 
    Interior are to be held in trust by the Secretary of the Interior 
    for the Zuni Tribe as part of the Zuni Reservation, unless the Zuni 
    Tribe otherwise elects under clause (ii) of paragraph (3)(C) to 
    have the parcel conveyed to it in Restricted Fee Status.
        (2) Immediate trust on behalf of the navajo nation; 
    exception.--Subject to valid existing rights and to easements 
    reserved pursuant to subsection (b), all right, title, and interest 
    of the United States in and to the lands of Former Fort Wingate 
    Depot Activity depicted in dark green on the Map and transferred to 
    the Secretary of the Interior are to be held in trust by the 
    Secretary of the Interior for the Navajo Nation as part of the 
    Navajo Reservation, unless the Navajo Nation otherwise elects under 
    clause (ii) of paragraph (3)(C) to have the parcel conveyed to it 
    in Restricted Fee Status.
        (3) Subsequent transfer and trust; restricted fee status 
    alternative.--
            (A) Transfer upon completion of remediation.--Not later 
        than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary of the Army, 
        with the concurrence of the New Mexico Environment Department, 
        notifies the Secretary of the Interior that remediation of a 
        parcel of land of Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity has been 
        completed consistent with subsection (c), the Secretary of the 
        Army shall transfer administrative jurisdiction over the parcel 
        to the Secretary of the Interior.
            (B) Notification of transfer.--Not later than 30 days after 
        the date on which the Secretary of the Army transfers 
        administrative jurisdiction over a parcel of land of Former 
        Fort Wingate Depot Activity under subparagraph (A), the 
        Secretary of the Interior shall notify the Zuni Tribe and 
        Navajo Nation of the transfer of administrative jurisdiction 
        over the parcel.
            (C) Trust or restricted fee status.--
                (i) Trust.--Except as provided in clause (ii), the 
            Secretary of the Interior shall hold each parcel of land of 
            Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity transferred under 
            subparagraph (A) in trust--

                    (I) for the Zuni Tribe, in the case of land 
                depicted in blue on the Map; or
                    (II) for the Navajo Nation, in the case of land 
                depicted in green on the Map.

                (ii) Restricted fee status.--In lieu of having a parcel 
            of land held in trust under clause (i), the Zuni Tribe, 
            with respect to land depicted in blue on the Map, and the 
            Navajo Nation, with respect to land depicted in green on 
            the Map, may elect to have the Secretary of the Interior 
            convey the parcel or any portion of the parcel to it in 
            restricted fee status.
                (iii) Notification of election.--Not later than 45 days 
            after the date on which the Zuni Tribe or the Navajo Nation 
            receives notice under subparagraph (B) of the transfer of 
            administrative jurisdiction over a parcel of land of Former 
            Fort Wingate Depot Activity, the Zuni Tribe or the Navajo 
            Nation shall notify the Secretary of the Interior of an 
            election under clause (ii) for conveyance of the parcel or 
            any portion of the parcel in restricted fee status.
                (iv) Conveyance.--As soon as practicable after receipt 
            of a notice from the Zuni Tribe or the Navajo Nation under 
            clause (iii), but in no case later than 6 months after 
            receipt of the notice, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
            convey, in restricted fee status, the parcel of land of 
            Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity covered by the notice to 
            the Zuni Tribe or the Navajo Nation, as the case may be.
                (v) Restricted fee status defined.--For purposes of 
            this section only, the term ``restricted fee status'', with 
            respect to land conveyed under clause (iv), means that the 
            land so conveyed--

                    (I) shall be owned in fee by the Indian tribe to 
                whom the land is conveyed;
                    (II) shall be part of the Indian tribe's 
                Reservation and expressly made subject to the 
                jurisdiction of the Indian Tribe;
                    (III) shall not be sold by the Indian tribe without 
                the consent of Congress;
                    (IV) shall not be subject to taxation by a State or 
                local government other than the government of the 
                Indian tribe; and
                    (V) shall not be subject to any provision of law 
                providing for the review or approval by the Secretary 
                of the Interior before an Indian tribe may use the land 
                for any purpose, directly or through agreement with 
                another party.

        (4) Survey and boundary requirements.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall--
                (i) provide for the survey of lands of Former Fort 
            Wingate Depot Activity taken into trust for the Zuni Tribe 
            or the Navajo Nation or conveyed in restricted fee status 
            for the Zuni Tribe or the Navajo Nation under paragraph 
            (1), (2), or (3); and
                (ii) establish legal boundaries based on the Map as 
            parcels are taken into trust or conveyed in restricted fee 
            status.
            (B) Consultation.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall consult with the Zuni Tribe and the Navajo Nation to 
        determine their priorities regarding the order in which parcels 
        should be surveyed and, to the greatest extent feasible, the 
        Secretary shall follow these priorities.
        (5) Relation to certain regulations.--Part 151 of title 25, 
    Code of Federal Regulations, shall not apply to taking lands of 
    Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity into trust under paragraph (1), 
    (2), or (3).
        (6) Fort wingate launch complex land status.--Upon 
    certification by the Secretary of Defense that the area generally 
    depicted as ``Fort Wingate Launch Complex'' on the Map is no longer 
    required for military purposes and can be transferred to the 
    Secretary of the Interior--
            (A) the areas generally depicted as ``FWLC A'' and ``FWLC 
        B'' on the Map shall be held in trust by the Secretary of the 
        Interior for the Zuni Tribe in accordance with this subsection; 
        and
            (B) the areas generally depicted as ``FWLC C'' and ``FWLC 
        D'' on the Map shall be held in trust by the Secretary of the 
        Interior for the Navajo Nation in accordance with this 
        subsection.
    (b) Temporary Retention of Necessary Easements and Access.--
        (1) Treatment of existing easements, permit rights, and rights-
    of-way.--
            (A) In general.--The lands of Former Fort Wingate Depot 
        Activity held in trust or conveyed in restricted fee status 
        pursuant to subsection (a) shall be held in trust with 
        easements, permit rights, and rights-of-way, and access 
        associated with such easements, permit rights, and rights-of-
        way, of any applicable utility service provider in existence or 
        for which an application is pending for existing facilities at 
        the time of the conveyance or change to trust status, including 
        the right to upgrade applicable utility services recognized and 
        preserved, for a period of 40 years beginning on the date of 
        the conveyance or change to trust status and without the right 
        of revocation during such period (except as provided in 
        subparagraph (B)).
            (B) Termination.--During the 40-year period referred to in 
        subparagraph (A), an easement, permit right, or right-of-way 
        recognized and preserved under subparagraph (A) shall terminate 
        only--
                (i) on the relocation of an applicable utility service 
            referred to in subparagraph (A), but only with respect to 
            that portion of the utility facilities that are relocated; 
            or
                (ii) with the consent of the holder of the easement, 
            permit right, or right-of-way.
            (C) Additional easements.--During the 40-year period 
        referred to in subparagraph (A), the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall grant to a utility service provider, without 
        consideration, such additional easements across lands held in 
        trust or conveyed in restricted fee status pursuant to 
        subsection (a) as the Secretary considers necessary to 
        accommodate the relocation or reconnection of a utility service 
        existing on the date of enactment of this section.
        (2) Access for environmental response actions.--The lands of 
    Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity held in trust or conveyed in 
    restricted fee status pursuant to subsection (a) shall be subject 
    to reserved access by the United States as the Secretary of the 
    Army and the Secretary of the Interior determine are reasonably 
    required to permit access to lands of Former Fort Wingate Depot 
    Activity for administrative and environmental response purposes. 
    The Secretary of the Army shall provide to the governments of the 
    Zuni Tribe and the Navajo Nation written copies of all access 
    reservations under this subsection.
        (3) Shared access.--
            (A) Parcel 1 shared cultural and religious access.--In the 
        case of the lands of Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity 
        depicted as Parcel 1 on the Map, the lands shall be held in 
        trust subject to a shared easement for cultural and religious 
        purposes only. Both the Zuni Tribe and the Navajo Nation shall 
        have unhindered access to their respective cultural and 
        religious sites within Parcel 1. Within 1 year after the date 
        of the enactment of this section, the Zuni Tribe and the Navajo 
        Nation shall exchange detailed information to document the 
        existence of cultural and religious sites within Parcel 1 for 
        the purpose of carrying out this subparagraph. The information 
        shall also be provided to the Secretary of the Interior.
            (B) Other shared access.--Subject to the written consent of 
        both the Zuni Tribe and the Navajo Nation, the Secretary of the 
        Interior may facilitate shared access to other lands held in 
        trust or restricted fee status pursuant to subsection (a), 
        including, but not limited to, religious and cultural sites.
        (4)  I-40 frontage road entrance.--The access road for the 
    Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity, which originates at the 
    frontage road for Interstate 40 and leads to the parcel of the 
    Former Fort Wingate Depot Activity depicted as ``administration 
    area'' on the Map, shall be held in common by the Zuni Tribe and 
    Navajo Nation to provide for equal access to Former Fort Wingate 
    Depot Activity.
        (5) Compatibility with defense activities.--The lands of Former 
    Fort Wingate Depot Activity held in trust or conveyed in restricted 
    fee status pursuant to subsection (a) shall be subject to 
    reservations by the United States as the Secretary of Defense 
    determines are reasonably required to permit access to lands of the 
    Fort Wingate launch complex for administrative, test operations, 
    and launch operations purposes. The Secretary of Defense shall 
    provide the governments of the Zuni Tribe and the Navajo Nation 
    written copies of all reservations under this paragraph.
    (c) Environmental Remediation.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed as alleviating, altering, or affecting the responsibility of 
the United States for cleanup and remediation of Former Fort Wingate 
Depot Activity in accordance with the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980.
    (d) Prohibition on Gaming.--Any real property of the Former Fort 
Wingate Depot Activity and all other real property subject to this 
section shall not be eligible, or used, for any gaming activity carried 
out under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq.).

         Subtitle D--Military Memorials, Monuments, and Museums

SEC. 2831. CYBER CENTER FOR EDUCATION AND INNOVATION-HOME OF THE 
NATIONAL CRYPTOLOGIC MUSEUM.
    (a) Authority To Establish and Operate Center.--Chapter 449 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 4781. Cyber Center for Education and Innovation-Home of the 
    National Cryptologic Museum
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense may establish at a 
publicly accessible location at Fort George G. Meade the `Cyber Center 
for Education and Innovation-Home of the National Cryptologic Museum' 
(in this section referred to as the `Center'). The Center may be used 
for the identification, curation, storage, and public viewing of 
materials relating to the activities of the National Security Agency, 
its predecessor or successor organizations, and the history of 
cryptology. The Center may contain meeting, conference, and classroom 
facilities that will be used to support such education, training, 
public outreach, and other purposes as the Secretary considers 
appropriate.
    ``(b) Design, Construction, and Operation.--The Secretary may enter 
into an agreement with the National Cryptologic Museum Foundation (in 
this section referred to as the `Foundation'), a nonprofit 
organization, for the design, construction, and operation of the 
Center.
    ``(c) Acceptance Authority.--
        ``(1) Acceptance of facility.--If the Foundation constructs the 
    Center pursuant to an agreement with the Foundation under 
    subsection (b), upon satisfactory completion of the Center's 
    construction or any phase thereof, as determined by the Secretary, 
    and upon full satisfaction by the Foundation of any other 
    obligations pursuant to such agreement, the Secretary may accept 
    the Center (or any phase thereof) from the Foundation, and all 
    right, title, and interest in the Center or such phase shall vest 
    in the United States.
        ``(2) Acceptance of services.--Notwithstanding section 1342 of 
    title 31, the Secretary may accept services from the Foundation in 
    connection with the design, construction, and operation of the 
    Center. For purposes of this section and any other provision of 
    law, employees or personnel of the Foundation shall not be 
    considered to be employees of the United States.
    ``(d) Fees and User Charges.--
        ``(1) Authority to assess fees and user charges.--The Secretary 
    may assess fees and user charges sufficient to cover the cost of 
    the use of Center facilities and property, including rental, user, 
    conference, and concession fees.
        ``(2) Use of funds.--Amounts received by the Secretary under 
    paragraph (1) shall be deposited into the Fund established under 
    subsection (e).
    ``(e) Fund.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--Upon the Secretary's acceptance of the 
    Center under subsection (c)(1), there is established in the 
    Treasury a fund to be known as the Cyber Center for Education and 
    Innovation-Home of the National Cryptologic Museum Fund (in this 
    section referred to as the `Fund').
        ``(2) Contents.--The Fund shall consist of the following 
    amounts:
            ``(A) Fees and user charges deposited by the Secretary 
        under subsection (d).
            ``(B) Any other amounts received by the Secretary which are 
        attributable to the operation of the Center.
        ``(3) Use of fund.--Amounts in the Fund shall be available to 
    the Secretary for the benefit and operation of the Center, 
    including the costs of operation and the acquisition of books, 
    manuscripts, works of art, historical artifacts, drawings, plans, 
    models, and condemned or obsolete combat materiel.
        ``(4) Continuing availability of amounts.--Amounts in the Fund 
    shall be available without fiscal year limitation.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``4781. Cyber Center for Education and Innovation-Home of the National 
          Cryptologic Museum.''.
SEC. 2832. RENAMING SITE OF THE DAYTON AVIATION HERITAGE NATIONAL 
HISTORICAL PARK, OHIO.
    Section 101(b)(5) of the Dayton Aviation Heritage Preservation Act 
of 1992 (16 U.S.C. 410ww(b)(5)) is amended by striking ``Aviation 
Center'' and inserting ``National Museum''.
SEC. 2833. WOMEN'S MILITARY SERVICE MEMORIALS AND MUSEUMS.
    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Defense may provide not more 
than $5,000,000 in financial support for the acquisition, installation, 
and maintenance of exhibits, facilities, historical displays, and 
programs at military service memorials and museums that highlight the 
role of women in the military. The Secretary may enter into a contract 
with a nonprofit organization for the purpose of performing such 
acquisition, installation, and maintenance.
    (b) Offset.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by section 
301 for operation and maintenance, Army, and available for the National 
Museum of the United States Army, not more than $5,000,000 shall be 
provided, at the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, to carry out 
activities under subsection (a).
SEC. 2834. PETERSBURG NATIONAL BATTLEFIELD BOUNDARY MODIFICATION.
    (a) In General.--The boundary of the Petersburg National 
Battlefield is modified to include the land and interests in land as 
generally depicted on the map titled ``Petersburg National Battlefield 
Proposed Boundary Expansion'', numbered 325/80,080, and dated June 
2007/March 2016. The map shall be on file and available for public 
inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.
    (b) Acquisition of Properties.--
        (1) Authority.--The Secretary of the Interior (referred to in 
    this section as the ``Secretary'') is authorized to acquire the 
    land and interests in land described in subsection (a) from willing 
    sellers only, by donation, purchase with donated or appropriated 
    funds, exchange, or transfer.
        (2) Technical correction.--Section 313(a) of the National Parks 
    and Recreation Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-625; 92 Stat. 3479) is 
    amended by striking ``twenty-one'' and inserting ``23''.
    (c) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer any land or 
interests in land acquired under subsection (b) as part of the 
Petersburg National Battlefield in accordance with applicable laws and 
regulations.
    (d) Administrative Jurisdiction Transfer.--
        (1) In general.--There is transferred--
            (A) from the Secretary to the Secretary of the Army 
        administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 1.170-acre 
        parcel of land depicted as ``Area to be transferred to Fort Lee 
        Military Reservation'' on the map described in paragraph (2); 
        and
            (B) from the Secretary of the Army to the Secretary 
        administrative jurisdiction over the approximately 1.171-acre 
        parcel of land depicted as ``Area to be transferred to 
        Petersburg National Battlefield'' on the map described in 
        paragraph (2).
        (2) Map.--The parcels of land described in paragraph (1) are 
    depicted on the map titled ``Petersburg National Battlefield 
    Proposed Transfer of Administrative Jurisdiction'', numbered 325/
    80,801A, dated May 2011/March 2016. The map shall be on file and 
    available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
    National Park Service.
        (3) Conditions of transfer.--The transfer of administrative 
    jurisdiction under paragraph (1) is subject to the following 
    conditions:
            (A) No reimbursement or consideration.--The transfer shall 
        be without reimbursement or consideration.
            (B) Management.--
                (i) Land transferred to the secretary of the army.--The 
            land transferred to the Secretary of the Army under 
            paragraph (1)(A) shall be excluded from the boundary of the 
            Petersburg National Battlefield.
                (ii) Land transferred to the secretary.--The land 
            transferred to the Secretary under paragraph (1)(B)--

                    (I) shall be included within the boundary of the 
                Petersburg National Battlefield; and
                    (II) shall be administered as part of Petersburg 
                National Battlefield in accordance with applicable laws 
                and regulations.

               Subtitle E--Designations and Other Matters

SEC. 2841. DESIGNATION OF PORTION OF MOFFETT FEDERAL AIRFIELD, 
CALIFORNIA, AS MOFFETT AIR NATIONAL GUARD BASE.
    (a) Designation.--The 111-acre cantonment area at Moffett Federal 
Airfield, California, utilized by the 129th Rescue Wing of the 
California Air National Guard shall be known and designated as 
``Moffett Air National Guard Base''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in any law, regulation, map, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the cantonment 
area at Moffett Federal Airfield described in subsection (a) shall be 
considered to be a reference to Moffett Air National Guard Base.
SEC. 2842. REDESIGNATION OF MIKE O'CALLAGHAN FEDERAL MEDICAL CENTER.
    Section 2867 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 1997 (division B of Public Law 104-201; 110 Stat. 2806), as 
amended by section 8135(a) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
Act, 1997 (section 101(b) of division A of the Omnibus Consolidated 
Appropriations Act, 1997 (Public Law 104-208; 110 Stat. 3009-118)), and 
as amended by section 2862 of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1701), is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``Mike O'Callaghan Federal Medical Center'' 
    each place it appears and inserting ``Mike O'Callaghan Military 
    Medical Center''; and
        (2) in the heading, by striking ``mike o'callaghan'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``mike o'callaghan military medical 
    center.''.
SEC. 2843. REPLENISHMENT OF SIERRA VISTA SUBWATERSHED REGIONAL AQUIFER, 
ARIZONA.
    The Secretary of the Army or the Secretary of the Interior may 
enter into agreements with the Cochise Conservation Recharge Network, 
Arizona, in support of water conservation, recharge, and reuse efforts 
for the regional aquifer identified under section 321(g) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (Public Law 
108-136; 117 Stat. 1439).
SEC. 2844. LIMITED EXCEPTIONS TO RESTRICTION ON DEVELOPMENT OF PUBLIC 
INFRASTRUCTURE IN CONNECTION WITH REALIGNMENT OF MARINE CORPS FORCES IN 
ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.
    (a) Revision.--Notwithstanding section 2821(b) of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of 
Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3701), the Secretary of Defense may 
proceed with a public infrastructure project on Guam which is described 
in subsection (b) if--
        (1) the project was identified in the report prepared by the 
    Secretary of Defense under section 2822(d)(2) of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
    Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1017); and
        (2) amounts have been appropriated or made available to be 
    expended by the Department of Defense for the project.
    (b) Projects Described.--A project described in this subsection is 
any of the following:
        (1) A project intended to improve water and wastewater systems.
        (2) A project intended to improve curation of archeological and 
    cultural artifacts.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Law.--Section 2821 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (division B of 
Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1177) is repealed.
SEC. 2845. DURATION OF WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION OF PUBLIC LAND, NAVAL 
AIR WEAPONS STATION CHINA LAKE, CALIFORNIA.
    Section 2979 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1047) is 
amended by striking ``March 31, 2039'' and inserting ``March 31, 
2064''.

   TITLE XXIX--OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2901. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2902. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2903. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 2901. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of the Navy may acquire real property and carry out 
the military construction projects for the installations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                                         Navy: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                        Installation                       Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Djibouti.......................................   Camp Lemonier.................................     $37,409,000
Iceland........................................  Keflavik.......................................     $19,600,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2902. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry 
out the military construction projects for the installations outside 
the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following 
table:


                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                        Installation                       Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bulgaria.......................................  Graf Ignatievo.................................     $13,400,000
Djibouti.......................................   Chabelley Airfield............................     $10,500,000
Estonia........................................  Amari Air Base.................................      $6,500,000
Germany........................................  Spangdahlem Air Base...........................     $18,700,000
Lithuania......................................  Siauliai.......................................      $3,000,000
Poland.........................................  Powidz Air Base................................      $4,100,000
                                                 Lask Air Base..................................      $4,100,000
Romania........................................  Campia Turzii..................................     $18,500,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2903. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2016, for the military construction 
projects outside the United States authorized by this title as 
specified in the funding table in section 4602 and 4603.

      TITLE XXX--UTAH TEST AND TRAINING RANGE AND RELATED MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Authorization for Temporary Closure of Certain Public Land 
              Adjacent to the Utah Test and Training Range

Sec. 3001. Definitions.
Sec. 3002. Memorandum of agreement.
Sec. 3003. Temporary closures.
Sec. 3004. Liability.
Sec. 3005. Community resource advisory group.
Sec. 3006. Savings clauses.

 Subtitle B--Bureau of Land Management Land Exchange With State of Utah

Sec. 3011. Definitions.
Sec. 3012. Exchange of Federal land and non-Federal land.
Sec. 3013. Status and management of non-Federal land acquired by the 
          United States.
Sec. 3014. Hazardous substances.

Subtitle A--Authorization for Temporary Closure of Certain Public Land 
              Adjacent to the Utah Test and Training Range

SEC. 3001. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) BLM land.--The term ``BLM land'' means certain public land 
    administered by the Bureau of Land Management in the State 
    comprising approximately 703,621 acres, as generally depicted on 
    the map entitled ``Utah Test and Training Range Enhancement/West 
    Desert Land Exchange'' and dated July 21, 2016.
        (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (3) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.
        (4) Utah test and training range.--The term ``Utah Test and 
    Training Range'' means the portions of the military land and 
    airspace operating area of the Utah Test and Training Area that are 
    located in the State, including the Dugway Proving Ground.
SEC. 3002. MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT.
    (a) Memorandum of Agreement.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Secretary of the Air 
    Force shall enter into a memorandum of agreement to authorize the 
    Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Secretary, to 
    impose limited closures of the BLM land for military operations and 
    national security and public safety purposes, as provided in this 
    subtitle.
        (2) Draft.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the Secretary of the 
        Air Force shall complete a draft of the memorandum of agreement 
        required under paragraph (1).
            (B) Public comment period.--During the 30-day period 
        beginning on the date on which the draft memorandum of 
        agreement is completed under subparagraph (A), there shall be 
        an opportunity for public comment on the draft memorandum of 
        agreement, including an opportunity for the Utah Test and 
        Training Range Community Resource Advisory Group established 
        under section 3005 to provide comments on the draft memorandum 
        of agreement.
        (3) Management by secretary.--The memorandum of agreement 
    entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide that the Secretary 
    shall continue to manage the BLM land in accordance with the 
    Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et 
    seq.) and applicable land use plans, while allowing for the 
    temporary closure of the BLM land in accordance with this subtitle.
        (4) Permits and rights-of-way.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary shall consult with the 
        Secretary of the Air Force regarding Utah Test and Training 
        Range mission requirements before issuing new use permits or 
        rights-of-way on the BLM land.
            (B) Framework.--The Secretary and the Secretary of the Air 
        Force shall establish within the memorandum of agreement 
        entered into under paragraph (1) a framework agreed to by the 
        Secretary and the Secretary of the Air Force for resolving any 
        disagreement on the issuance of permits or rights-of-way on the 
        BLM land.
        (5) Termination.--
            (A) In general.--The memorandum of agreement entered into 
        under paragraph (1) shall be for a term to be determined by the 
        Secretary and the Secretary of the Air Force, not to exceed 25 
        years.
            (B) Early termination.--The memorandum of agreement may be 
        terminated before the date determined under subparagraph (A) if 
        the Secretary of the Air Force determines that the temporary 
        closure of the BLM land is no longer necessary to fulfill Utah 
        Test and Training Range mission requirements.
    (b) Map.--The Secretary may correct any minor errors in the map 
described in section 3001(1).
    (c) Land Safety.--If decontamination of the BLM land is necessary 
due to an action of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Air Force 
shall--
        (1) render the BLM land safe for public use; and
        (2) appropriately communicate the safety of the land to the 
    Secretary on the date on which the BLM land is rendered safe for 
    public use under paragraph (1).
    (d) Consultation.--The Secretary shall consult with any federally 
recognized Indian tribe in the vicinity of the BLM land before entering 
into any agreement under this subtitle.
    (e) Grazing.--
        (1) Effect.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the management of 
    grazing on the BLM land.
        (2) Continuation of grazing management.--The Secretary shall 
    continue grazing management on the BLM land pursuant to the Federal 
    Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and 
    applicable resource management plans.
    (f) Memorandum of Understanding on Emergency Access and Response.--
Nothing in this section precludes the continuation of the memorandum of 
understanding between the Department of the Interior and the Department 
of the Air Force with respect to emergency access and response, as in 
existence on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (g) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the BLM land is 
withdrawn from all forms of appropriation under the public land laws, 
including the mining laws, the mineral leasing laws, and the geothermal 
leasing laws.
SEC. 3003. TEMPORARY CLOSURES.
    (a) In General.--If the Secretary of the Air Force determines that 
military operations (including operations relating to the fulfillment 
of the mission of the Utah Test and Training Range), public safety, or 
national security require the temporary closure to public use of any 
road, trail, or other portion of the BLM land, the Secretary of the Air 
Force may take such action as the Secretary of the Air Force, in 
consultation with the Secretary, determines necessary to carry out the 
temporary closure.
    (b) Limitations.--Any temporary closure under subsection (a)--
        (1) shall be limited to the minimum areas and periods that the 
    Secretary of the Air Force determines are required to carry out a 
    closure under this section;
        (2) shall not occur on a State or Federal holiday, unless 
    notice is provided in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(B);
        (3) shall not occur on a Friday, Saturday, or Sunday, unless 
    notice is provided in accordance with subsection (c)(1)(B); and
        (4)(A) if practicable, shall be for not longer than a 3-hour 
    period per day;
            (B) shall only be for longer than a 3-hour period per day--
                (i) for mission essential reasons; and
                (ii) as infrequently as practicable and in no case for 
            more than 10 days per year; and
            (C) shall in no case be for longer than a 6-hour period per 
        day.
    (c) Notice.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of the Air Force shall--
            (A) keep appropriate warning notices posted before and 
        during any temporary closure; and
            (B) provide notice to the Secretary, public, and relevant 
        stakeholders concerning the temporary closure--
                (i) at least 30 days before the date on which the 
            temporary closure goes into effect;
                (ii) in the case of a closure during the period 
            beginning on March 1 and ending on May 31, at least 60 days 
            before the date on which the closure goes into effect; or
                (iii) in the case of a closure described in paragraph 
            (3) or (4) of subsection (b), at least 90 days before the 
            date on which the closure goes into effect.
        (2) Special notification procedures.--In each case for which a 
    mission-unique security requirement does not allow for the 
    notifications described in paragraph (1)(B), the Secretary of the 
    Air Force shall work with the Secretary to achieve a mutually 
    agreeable timeline for notification.
    (d) Maximum Annual Closures.--The total cumulative hours of 
temporary closures authorized under this section with respect to the 
BLM land shall not exceed 100 hours annually.
    (e) Prohibition on Certain Temporary Closures.--The northernmost 
area identified as ``Newfoundland's'' on the map described in section 
3001(1) shall not be subject to any temporary closure between August 21 
and February 28, in accordance with the lawful hunting seasons of the 
State of Utah.
    (f) Emergency Ground Response.--A temporary closure of a portion of 
the BLM land shall not affect the conduct of emergency response 
activities on the BLM land during the temporary closure.
    (g) Livestock.--Livestock authorized by a Federal grazing permit 
shall be allowed to remain on the BLM land during a temporary closure 
of the BLM land under this section.
    (h) Law Enforcement and Security.--The Secretary and the Secretary 
of the Air Force may enter into cooperative agreements with State and 
local law enforcement officials with respect to lawful procedures and 
protocols to be used in promoting public safety and operation security 
on or near the BLM land during noticed test and training periods.
SEC. 3004. LIABILITY.
    The United States (including all departments, agencies, officers, 
and employees of the United States) shall be held harmless and shall 
not be liable for any injury or damage to any individual or property 
suffered in the course of any mining, mineral, or geothermal activity, 
or any other authorized nondefense-related activity, conducted on the 
BLM land.
SEC. 3005. COMMUNITY RESOURCE ADVISORY GROUP.
    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, there shall be established the Utah Test and 
Training Range Community Resource Advisory Group (referred to in this 
section as the ``Community Group'') to provide regular and continuing 
input to the Secretary and the Secretary of the Air Force on matters 
involving public access to, use of, and overall management of the BLM 
land.
    (b) Membership.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall appoint members to the 
    Community Group, including--
            (A) 1 representative of Indian tribes in the vicinity of 
        the BLM land, to be nominated by a majority vote conducted 
        among the Indian tribes in the vicinity of the BLM land;
            (B) not more than 1 county commissioner from each of Box 
        Elder, Tooele, and Juab Counties, Utah;
            (C) 2 representatives of off-road and highway use, hunting, 
        or other recreational users of the BLM land;
            (D) 2 representatives of livestock permittees on public 
        land located within the BLM land;
            (E) 1 representative of the Utah Department of Agriculture 
        and Food; and
            (F) not more than 3 representatives of State or Federal 
        offices or agencies, or private groups or individuals, if the 
        Secretary determines that such representatives would further 
        the goals and objectives of the Community Group.
        (2) Chairperson.--The members described in paragraph (1) shall 
    elect from among the members of the Community Group--
            (A) 1 member to serve as Chairperson of the Community 
        Group; and
            (B) 1 member to serve as Vice-Chairperson of the Community 
        Group.
        (3) Air force personnel.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    appoint appropriate operational and land management personnel of 
    the Air Force to serve as a liaison to the Community Group.
    (c) Conditions and Terms of Appointment.--
        (1) In general.--Each member of the Community Group shall serve 
    voluntarily and without compensation.
        (2) Term of appointment.--
            (A) In general.--Each member of the Community Group shall 
        be appointed for a term of 4 years.
            (B) Original members.--Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), 
        the Secretary shall select \1/2\ of the original members of the 
        Community Group to serve for a term of 4 years and the other 
        \1/2\ of the original members of the Community Group to serve 
        for a term of 2 years, to ensure the replacement of members 
        shall be staggered from year to year.
            (C) Reappointment and replacement.--The Secretary may 
        reappoint or replace a member of the Community Group appointed 
        under subsection (b)(1), if--
                (i) the term of the member has expired;
                (ii) the member has resigned; or
                (iii) the position held by the member described in 
            subparagraph (A) through (F) of paragraph (1) has changed 
            to the extent that the ability of the member to represent 
            the group or entity that the member represents has been 
            significantly affected.
    (d) Meetings.--
        (1) In general.--The Community Group shall meet not less than 
    once per year, and at such other frequencies as determined by 5 or 
    more of the members of the Community Group.
        (2) Responsibilities of community group.--The Community Group 
    shall be responsible for determining appropriate schedules for, 
    details of, and actions for meetings of the Community Group.
        (3) Notice.--The Chairperson shall provide notice to each 
    member of the Community Group not less than 10 business days before 
    the date of a scheduled meeting.
        (4) Exempt from federal advisory committee act.--The Federal 
    Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to meetings 
    of the Community Group.
    (e) Recommendations of Community Group.--The Secretary and 
Secretary of the Air Force, consistent with existing laws (including 
regulations), shall take under consideration recommendations from the 
Community Group.
    (f) Termination of Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Community Group shall terminate on the 
    date that is seven years after the date of enactment of this Act.
        (2) Early termination.--The Secretary and the Community Group, 
    acting jointly, may elect to terminate the Community Group before 
    the date provided in subsection (a).
SEC. 3006. SAVINGS CLAUSES.
    (a) Effect on Weapon Impact Area.--Nothing in this subtitle expands 
the boundaries of the weapon impact area of the Utah Test and Training 
Range.
    (b) Effect on Special Use Airspace and Training Routes.--Nothing in 
this subtitle precludes--
        (1) the designation of new units of special use airspace; or
        (2) the expansion of existing units of special use airspace.
    (c) Effect on Existing Military Special Use Airspace Agreement.--
Nothing in this subtitle limits or alters the Military Operating Areas 
of Airspace Use Agreement between the Federal Aviation Administration 
and the Air Force in effect on the date of enactment of this Act.
    (d) Effect on Existing Rights and Agreements.--Except as otherwise 
provided in section 3003, nothing in this subtitle limits or alters any 
existing right or right of access to--
        (1) the Knolls Special Recreation Management Area; or
        (2)(A) the Bureau of Land Management Community Pits Central 
    Grayback and South Grayback; and
        (B) any other county or community pit located within close 
    proximity to the BLM land.
    (e) Interstate 80.--Nothing in this subtitle authorizes any 
additional authority or right to the Secretary or the Secretary of the 
Air Force to temporarily close Interstate 80.
    (f) Effect on Limitation on Amendments to Certain Individual 
Resource Management Plans.--Nothing in this subtitle affects the 
limitation established under section 2815(d) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 106-65; 113 Stat. 
852).
    (g) Effect on Previous Memorandum of Understanding.--Nothing in 
this subtitle affects the memorandum of understanding entered into by 
the Air Force, the Bureau of Land Management, the Utah Department of 
Natural Resources, and the Utah Division of Wildlife Resources relating 
to the reestablishment of bighorn sheep in the Newfoundland Mountains 
and signed by the parties to the memorandum of understanding during the 
period beginning on January 24, 2000, and ending on February 4, 2000.
    (h) Effect on Federally Recognized Indian Tribes.--Nothing in this 
subtitle alters any right reserved by treaty or Federal law for a 
Federally recognized Indian tribe for tribal use.
    (i) Payments in Lieu of Taxes.--Nothing in this subtitle 
diminishes, enhances, or otherwise affects any other right or 
entitlement of the counties in which the BLM land is situated to 
payments in lieu of taxes based on the BLM land, under section 6901 of 
title 31, United States Code.
    (j) Wildlife Improvements.--The Secretary and the Utah Division of 
Wildlife Resources shall continue the management of wildlife 
improvements, including guzzlers, in existence as of the date of 
enactment of this Act on the BLM land.

 Subtitle B--Bureau of Land Management Land Exchange With State of Utah

SEC. 3011. DEFINITIONS.
    In this subtitle:
        (1) Exchange map.--The term ``Exchange Map'' means the map 
    prepared by the Bureau of Land Management entitled ``Utah Test and 
    Training Range Enhancement/West Desert Land Exchange'' and dated 
    Jule 21, 2016.
        (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the Bureau 
    of Land Management land located in Box Elder, Millard, Juab, 
    Tooele, and Beaver Counties, Utah, that is identified on the 
    Exchange Map as ``BLM Lands Proposed for Transfer to State Trust 
    Lands''.
        (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means the 
    land owned by the State in Box Elder, Tooele, and Juab Counties, 
    Utah, that is identified on the Exchange Map as--
            (A) ``State Trust Land Proposed for Transfer to BLM''; and
            (B) ``State Trust Minerals Proposed for Transfer to BLM''.
        (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
        (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah, acting 
    through the School and Institutional Trust Lands Administration.
SEC. 3012. EXCHANGE OF FEDERAL LAND AND NON-FEDERAL LAND.
    (a) In General.--If the State offers to convey to the United States 
title to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
        (1) accept the offer; and
        (2) on receipt of all right, title, and interest in and to the 
    non-Federal land, convey to the State (or a designee) all right, 
    title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal 
    land.
    (b) Applicable Law.--
        (1) In general.--The land exchange shall be subject to section 
    206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
    U.S.C. 1716) and other applicable law.
        (2) Effect of study.--The Secretary shall carry out the land 
    exchange under this subtitle notwithstanding section 2815(d) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2000 (Public Law 
    106-65; 113 Stat. 852).
        (3) Land use planning.--The Secretary shall not be required to 
    undertake any additional land use planning under section 202 of the 
    Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) 
    before the conveyance of the Federal land under this subtitle.
    (c) Valid Existing Rights.--The exchange authorized under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
    (d) Title Approval.--Title to the Federal land and non-Federal land 
to be exchanged under this subtitle shall be in a format acceptable to 
the Secretary and the State.
    (e) Appraisals.--
        (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and the non-
    Federal land to be exchanged under this subtitle shall be 
    determined by appraisals conducted by 1 or more independent and 
    qualified appraisers.
        (2) State appraiser.--The Secretary and the State may agree to 
    use an independent and qualified appraiser retained by the State, 
    with the consent of the Secretary.
        (3) Applicable law.--The appraisals under paragraph (1) shall 
    be conducted in accordance with nationally recognized appraisal 
    standards, including, as appropriate, the Uniform Appraisal 
    Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the Uniform Standards 
    of Professional Appraisal Practice.
        (4) Minerals.--
            (A) Mineral reports.--The appraisals under paragraph (1) 
        may take into account mineral and technical reports provided by 
        the Secretary and the State in the evaluation of minerals in 
        the Federal land and non-Federal land.
            (B) Mining claims.--Federal land that is encumbered by a 
        mining or millsite claim located under sections 2318 through 
        2352 of the Revised Statutes (commonly known as the ``Mining 
        Law of 1872'') (30 U.S.C. 21 et seq.) shall be appraised in 
        accordance with standard appraisal practices, including, as 
        appropriate, the Uniform Appraisal Standards for Federal Land 
        Acquisition.
            (C) Validity examination.--Nothing in this subtitle 
        requires the Secretary to conduct a mineral examination for any 
        mining claim on the Federal land.
        (5) Approval.--An appraisal conducted under paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted to the Secretary and the State for approval.
        (6) Duration.--An appraisal conducted under paragraph (1) shall 
    remain valid for 3 years after the date on which the appraisal is 
    approved by the Secretary and the State.
        (7) Cost of appraisal.--
            (A) In general.--The cost of an appraisal conducted under 
        paragraph (1) shall be paid equally by the Secretary and the 
        State.
            (B) Reimbursement by secretary.--If the State retains an 
        appraiser in accordance with paragraph (2), the Secretary shall 
        reimburse the State in an amount equal to 50 percent of the 
        costs incurred by the State.
    (f) Conveyance of Title.--It is the intent of Congress that the 
land exchange authorized under this subtitle shall be completed not 
later than 1 year after the date of final approval by the Secretary and 
the State of the appraisals conducted under subsection (e).
    (g) Public Inspection and Notice.--
        (1) Public inspection.--At least 30 days before the date of 
    conveyance of the Federal land and non-Federal land, all final 
    appraisals and appraisal reviews for the Federal land and non-
    Federal land to be exchanged under this subtitle shall be available 
    for public review at the office of the State Director of the Bureau 
    of Land Management in the State.
        (2) Notice.--The Secretary or the State, as applicable, shall 
    publish in a newspaper of general circulation in Salt Lake County, 
    Utah, a notice that the appraisals conducted under subsection (e) 
    are available for public inspection.
    (h) Consultation With Indian Tribes.--The Secretary shall consult 
with any federally recognized Indian tribe in the vicinity of the 
Federal land and non-Federal land to be exchanged under this subtitle 
before the completion of the land exchange.
    (i) Equal Value Exchange.--
        (1) In general.--The value of the Federal land and non-Federal 
    land to be exchanged under this subtitle--
            (A) shall be equal; or
            (B) shall be made equal in accordance with paragraph (2).
        (2) Equalization.--
            (A) Surplus of federal land.--
                (i) In general.--If the value of the Federal land 
            exceeds the value of the non-Federal land, the value of the 
            Federal land and non-Federal land shall be equalized by the 
            State conveying to the Secretary, as necessary to equalize 
            the value of the Federal land and non-Federal land--

                    (I) State trust land parcel 1, as described in the 
                assessment entitled ``Bureau of Land Management 
                Environmental Assessment UT-100-06-EA'', numbered UTU-
                82090, and dated March 2008; or
                    (II) State trust land located within any of the 
                wilderness areas or national conservation areas in 
                Washington County, Utah, established under subtitle O 
                of title I of the Omnibus Public Land Management Act of 
                2009 (Public Law 111-11; 123 Stat. 1075).

                (ii) Order of conveyances.--Any non-Federal land 
            required to be conveyed to the Secretary under clause (i) 
            shall be conveyed until the value of the Federal land and 
            non-Federal land is equalized.
            (B) Surplus of non-federal land.--If the value of the non-
        Federal land exceeds the value of the Federal land, the value 
        of the Federal land and the non-Federal land shall be 
        equalized--
                (i) by the Secretary making a cash equalization payment 
            to the State, in accordance with section 206(b) of the 
            Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
            1716(b)); or
                (ii) by removing non-Federal land from the exchange.
    (j) Grazing Permits.--
        (1) In general.--If the Federal land or non-Federal land 
    exchanged under this subtitle is subject to a lease, permit, or 
    contract for the grazing of domestic livestock in effect on the 
    date of acquisition, the Secretary and the State shall allow the 
    grazing to continue for the remainder of the term of the lease, 
    permit, or contract, subject to the related terms and conditions of 
    user agreements, including permitted stocking rates, grazing fee 
    levels, access rights, and ownership and use of range improvements.
        (2) Renewal.--To the extent allowed by Federal or State law, on 
    expiration of any grazing lease, permit, or contract described in 
    paragraph (1), the holder of the lease, permit, or contract shall 
    be entitled to a preference right to renew the lease, permit, or 
    contract.
        (3) Cancellation.--
            (A) In general.--Nothing in this subtitle prevents the 
        Secretary or the State from canceling or modifying a grazing 
        permit, lease, or contract if the Federal land or non-Federal 
        land subject to the permit, lease, or contract is sold, 
        conveyed, transferred, or leased for non-grazing purposes by 
        the Secretary or the State.
            (B) Limitation.--Except to the extent reasonably necessary 
        to accommodate surface operations in support of mineral 
        development, the Secretary or the State shall not cancel or 
        modify a grazing permit, lease, or contract because the land 
        subject to the permit, lease, or contract has been leased for 
        mineral development.
        (4) Base properties.--If non-Federal land conveyed by the State 
    under this subtitle is used by a grazing permittee or lessee to 
    meet the base property requirements for a Federal grazing permit or 
    lease, the land shall continue to qualify as a base property for--
            (A) the remaining term of the lease or permit; and
            (B) the term of any renewal or extension of the lease or 
        permit.
    (k) Withdrawal of Federal Land From Mineral Entry Prior To 
Exchange.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land to be 
conveyed to the State under this subtitle is withdrawn from mineral 
location, entry, and patent under the mining laws pending conveyance of 
the Federal land to the State.
SEC. 3013. STATUS AND MANAGEMENT OF NON-FEDERAL LAND ACQUIRED BY THE 
UNITED STATES.
    (a) In General.--On conveyance to the United States under this 
subtitle, the non-Federal land shall be managed by the Secretary in 
accordance with the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) and applicable land use plans.
    (b) Non-federal Land Within Cedar Mountains Wilderness.--On 
conveyance to the Secretary under this subtitle, the non-Federal land 
located within the Cedar Mountains Wilderness shall, in accordance with 
section 206(c) of the Federal Land Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1716(c)), be added to, and administered as part of, the Cedar Mountains 
Wilderness.
    (c) Non-federal Land Within Wilderness Areas or National 
Conservation Areas.--On conveyance to the Secretary under this 
subtitle, non-Federal land located in a national wilderness area or 
national conservation area shall be managed in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of subtitle O of title I of the Omnibus Public 
Land Management Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-11).
SEC. 3014. HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES.
    (a) Costs.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the costs of 
remedial actions relating to hazardous substances on land acquired 
under this subtitle shall be paid by those entities responsible for the 
costs under applicable law.
    (b) Remediation of Prior Testing and Training Activity.--The 
Secretary of the Air Force shall bear all costs of remediation required 
as a result of the previous testing of military weapons systems and the 
training of military forces on non-Federal land to be conveyed to the 
United States under this subtitle.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

        Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Independent acquisition project reviews of capital assets 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 3112. Protection of certain nuclear facilities and assets from 
          unmanned aircraft.
Sec. 3113. Common financial reporting system for the nuclear security 
          enterprise.
Sec. 3114. Rough estimate of total life cycle cost of tank waste cleanup 
          at Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Sec. 3115. Annual certification of shipments to Waste Isolation Pilot 
          Plant.
Sec. 3116. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3117. Design basis threat.
Sec. 3118. Industry best practices in operations at National Nuclear 
          Security Administration facilities and sites.
Sec. 3119. Pilot program on unavailability for overhead costs of amounts 
          specified for laboratory-directed research and development.
Sec. 3120. Research and development of advanced naval nuclear fuel 
          system based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3121. Increase in certain limitations applicable to funds for 
          conceptual and construction design of the Department of 
          Energy.
Sec. 3122. Prohibition on availability of funds for programs in Russian 
          Federation.
Sec. 3123. Limitation on availability of funds for Federal salaries and 
          expenses.
Sec. 3124. Limitation on availability of funds for defense environmental 
          cleanup program direction.
Sec. 3125. Limitation on availability of funds for acceleration of 
          nuclear weapons dismantlement.

                      Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Independent assessment of technology development under 
          defense environmental cleanup program.
Sec. 3132. Updated plan for verification and monitoring of proliferation 
          of nuclear weapons and fissile material.
Sec. 3133. Report on the use of highly-enriched uranium for naval 
          reactors.
Sec. 3134. Analysis of approaches for supplemental treatment of low-
          activity waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Sec. 3135. Clarification of annual report and certification on status of 
          security of atomic energy defense facilities.
Sec. 3136. Report on service support contracts and authority for 
          appointment of certain personnel.
Sec. 3137. Elimination of certain reporting requirements.
Sec. 3138. Report on United States nuclear deterrence.

       Subtitle A--National Security Programs and Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2017 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out new plant projects for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration as follows:
        Project 17-D-630, Expand Electrical Distribution System, 
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, Livermore, California, 
    $25,000,000.
        Project 17-D-640, U1a Complex Enhancements Project, Nevada 
    National Security Site, Mercury, Nevada, $11,500,000.
        Project 17-D-911, BL Fire System Upgrade, Bettis Atomic Power 
    Laboratory, West Mifflin, Pennsylvania, $1,400,000.
SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2017 for 
defense environmental cleanup activities in carrying out programs as 
specified in the funding table in section 4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out, for defense environmental cleanup 
activities, the following new plant project:
        Project 17-D-401, Saltstone Disposal Unit #7, Savannah River 
    Site, Aiken, South Carolina, $9,729,000.
SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2017 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2017 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. INDEPENDENT ACQUISITION PROJECT REVIEWS OF CAPITAL ASSETS 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title XLVII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2772) is amended by inserting after section 4732 
the following new section:
``SEC. 4733. INDEPENDENT ACQUISITION PROJECT REVIEWS OF CAPITAL ASSETS 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    ``(a) Reviews.--The appropriate head shall ensure that an 
independent entity conducts reviews of each capital assets acquisition 
project as the project moves toward the approval of each of critical 
decision 0, critical decision 1, and critical decision 2 in the 
acquisition process.
    ``(b) Pre-critical Decision 1 Reviews.--In addition to any other 
matters, with respect to each review of a capital assets acquisition 
project under subsection (a) that has not reached critical decision 1 
approval in the acquisition process, such review shall include--
        ``(1) a review using best practices of the analysis of 
    alternatives for the project; and
        ``(2) identification of any deficiencies in such analysis of 
    alternatives for the appropriate head to address.
    ``(c) Independent Entities.--The appropriate head shall ensure that 
each review of a capital assets acquisition project under subsection 
(a) is conducted by an independent entity with the appropriate 
expertise with respect to the project and the stage in the acquisition 
process of the project.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `acquisition process' means the acquisition 
    process for a project, as defined in Department of Energy Order 
    413.3B (relating to project management and project management for 
    the acquisition of capital assets), or a successor order.
        ``(2) The term `appropriate head' means--
            ``(A) the Administrator, with respect to capital assets 
        acquisition projects of the Administration; and
            ``(B) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental 
        Management, with respect to capital assets acquisition projects 
        of the Office of Environmental Management.
        ``(3) The term `capital assets acquisition project' means a 
    project--
            ``(A) the total project cost of which is more than 
        $500,000,000; and
            ``(B) that is covered by Department of Energy Order 413.3, 
        or a successor order, for the acquisition of capital assets for 
        atomic energy defense activities.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4732 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4733. Independent acquisition project reviews of capital assets 
          acquisition projects.''.
SEC. 3112. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN NUCLEAR FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2651 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
``SEC. 4510. PROTECTION OF CERTAIN NUCLEAR FACILITIES AND ASSETS FROM 
UNMANNED AIRCRAFT.
    ``(a) Authority.--Notwithstanding any provision of title 18, United 
States Code, the Secretary of Energy may take such actions described in 
subsection (b)(1) that are necessary to mitigate the threat (as defined 
by the Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Transportation) that an unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft 
poses to the safety or security of a covered facility or asset.
    ``(b) Actions Described.--(1) The actions described in this 
paragraph are the following:
        ``(A) Detect, identify, monitor, and track the unmanned 
    aircraft system or unmanned aircraft, without prior consent, 
    including by means of intercept or other access of a wire, oral, or 
    electronic communication used to control the unmanned aircraft 
    system or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(B) Warn the operator of the unmanned aircraft system or 
    unmanned aircraft, including by passive or active, and direct or 
    indirect physical, electronic, radio, and electromagnetic means.
        ``(C) Disrupt control of the unmanned aircraft system or 
    unmanned aircraft, without prior consent, including by disabling 
    the unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft by intercepting, 
    interfering, or causing interference with wire, oral, electronic, 
    or radio communications used to control the unmanned aircraft 
    system or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(D) Seize or exercise control of the unmanned aircraft system 
    or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(E) Seize or otherwise confiscate the unmanned aircraft 
    system or unmanned aircraft.
        ``(F) Use reasonable force to disable, damage, or destroy the 
    unmanned aircraft system or unmanned aircraft.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Energy shall develop the actions described 
in paragraph (1) in coordination with the Secretary of Transportation.
    ``(c) Forfeiture.--Any unmanned aircraft system or unmanned 
aircraft described in subsection (a) that is seized by the Secretary of 
Energy is subject to forfeiture to the United States.
    ``(d) Regulations.--The Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of 
Transportation may prescribe regulations and shall issue guidance in 
the respective areas of each Secretary to carry out this section.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered facility or asset' means any facility 
    or asset that is--
            ``(A) identified by the Secretary of Energy for purposes of 
        this section;
            ``(B) located in the United States (including the 
        territories and possessions of the United States); and
            ``(C) owned by the United States or contracted to the 
        United States, to store or use special nuclear material.
        ``(2) The terms `unmanned aircraft' and `unmanned aircraft 
    system' have the meanings given those terms in section 331 of the 
    FAA Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 
    U.S.C. 40101 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4509 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4510. Protection of certain nuclear facilities and assets from 
          unmanned aircraft.''.
SEC. 3113. COMMON FINANCIAL REPORTING SYSTEM FOR THE NUCLEAR SECURITY 
ENTERPRISE.
    (a) In General.--By not later than four years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall, in 
consultation with the National Nuclear Security Administration Council 
established by section 4102(b) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
U.S.C. 2512(b)), complete, to the extent practicable, the 
implementation of a common financial reporting system for the nuclear 
security enterprise.
    (b) Elements.--The common financial reporting system implemented 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall include the following:
        (1) Common data reporting requirements for work performed using 
    funds of the National Nuclear Security Administration, including 
    reporting of financial data by standardized labor categories, labor 
    hours, functional elements, and cost elements.
        (2) A common work breakdown structure for the Administration 
    that aligns contractor work breakdown structures with the budget 
    structure of the Administration.
        (3) Definitions and methodologies for identifying and reporting 
    costs for programs of records and base capabilities within the 
    Administration.
        (4) A capability to leverage, where appropriate, the Defense 
    Cost Analysis Resource Center of the Office of Cost Assessment and 
    Program Evaluation of the Department of Defense using historical 
    costing data by the Administration.
    (c) Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2017, and annually 
    thereafter, the Administrator shall, in consultation with the 
    National Nuclear Security Administration Council, submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on progress of the 
    Administration toward implementing a common financial reporting 
    system for the nuclear security enterprise as required by 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Report.--Each report under this subsection shall include 
    the following:
            (A) A summary of activities, accomplishments, challenges, 
        benefits, and costs related to the implementation of a common 
        financial reporting system for the nuclear security enterprise 
        during the year preceding the year in which such report is 
        submitted.
            (B) A summary of planned activities in connection with the 
        implementation of a common financial reporting system for the 
        nuclear security enterprise in the year in which such report is 
        submitted.
            (C) A description of any anticipated modifications to the 
        schedule for implementing a common financial reporting system 
        for the nuclear security enterprise, including an update on 
        possible risks, challenges, and costs related to such 
        implementation.
        (3) Termination.--No report is required under this subsection 
    after the completion of the implementation of a common financial 
    reporting system for the nuclear security enterprise.
    (d) Nuclear Security Enterprise Defined.--In this section, the term 
``nuclear security enterprise'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501).
SEC. 3114. ROUGH ESTIMATE OF TOTAL LIFE CYCLE COST OF TANK WASTE 
CLEANUP AT HANFORD NUCLEAR RESERVATION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a rough estimate of the total life 
cycle cost of the cleanup of tank waste at Hanford Nuclear Reservation, 
Richland, Washington.
    (b) Elements.--The rough estimate of the total life cycle cost 
required by subsection (a) shall include cost estimates for the 
following:
        (1) The Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant, assuming a 
    hot start occurs in 2033 and initial plant operations commence in 
    2036.
        (2) Operations of the Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant, 
    assuming operations continue through 2061.
        (3) Tank waste management and treatment, assuming operations of 
    the Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant continue through 2061.
        (4) Anticipated increases in the volume of waste in the double 
    shell tanks resulting from tank waste management activities.
        (5) High-level waste canister temporary storage and preparation 
    for permanent disposal.
        (6) Any additional facilities, including additional evaporative 
    capacity, that may be needed to treat tank waste at Hanford Nuclear 
    Reservation.
    (c) Cost Estimating Best Practices.--To the maximum extent 
practicable, the rough estimate of the total life cycle cost required 
by subsection (a) shall be developed in accordance with the cost 
estimating best practices of the Government Accountability Office.
    (d) Submission of Additional Independent Cost Estimates.--The 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees, as part 
of the rough estimate of the total life cycle cost required by 
subsection (a), any other independent cost estimates for the Waste 
Treatment and Immobilization Plant or related facilities conducted 
before the date on which the rough estimate of the total life cycle 
cost is required to be submitted under that subsection.
SEC. 3115. ANNUAL CERTIFICATION OF SHIPMENTS TO WASTE ISOLATION PILOT 
PLANT.
    (a) In General.--In order to ensure that waste shipments to the 
Waste Isolation Pilot Plant, Carlsbad, New Mexico (in this section 
referred to as ``WIPP'') are packaged and handled properly to prevent 
the release of radiation or contamination above regulatory limits, the 
Secretary of Energy shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees, not later than February 1 of each year during the five-year 
period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, a written 
certification that--
        (1) the Secretary knew of the contents of such shipments during 
    the 12-month period preceding the date of the certification and has 
    ensured that the Secretary will know of the contents of such 
    shipments planned during the 12-month period following the date of 
    the certification; and
        (2) such shipments made during the 12-month period preceding 
    the date of the certification were sufficiently safe and secure for 
    transportation and disposal and the Secretary has ensured that such 
    shipments planned during the 12-month period following the date of 
    the certification will be sufficiently safe and secure for 
    transportation and disposal.
    (b) Additional Assurances.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees, with the certification required by 
subsection (a), assurances that--
        (1) the Carlsbad Field Office of the Department of Energy has 
    certified that--
            (A) the contents of each shipment of waste that arrived at 
        WIPP during 12-month period preceding the date of the 
        certification met the criteria for accepting waste at WIPP; and
            (B) the Office will ensure that the waste destined for WIPP 
        during the 12-month period following the date of the 
        certification is packaged according to the criteria for 
        accepting waste at WIPP;
        (2) the Assistant Secretary of Energy for Environmental 
    Management has reviewed and accepted the certification of the 
    Carlsbad Field Office under paragraph (1); and
        (3) the Administrator for Nuclear Security has ensured that 
    waste destined for WIPP that was packaged at facilities of the 
    National Nuclear Security Administration during the 12-month period 
    preceding the date of the certification, and waste planned to be 
    packaged at such facilities during the 12-month period following 
    the date of the certification, and for which the Administration is 
    responsible, meets the criteria for accepting waste at WIPP.
SEC. 3116. DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS-USABLE PLUTONIUM.
    (a) Construction and Project Support Activities at MOX Facility.--
        (1) In general.--Using funds described in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Energy shall carry out construction and project 
    support activities relating to the MOX facility.
        (2) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph are 
    the following:
            (A) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
        otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration for the MOX facility for 
        construction and project support activities.
            (B) Funds authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year 
        prior to fiscal year 2017 for the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration for the MOX facility for construction and 
        project support activities that are unobligated as of the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Assessment of the MOX Facility Contract by Owner's Agent.--
        (1) Arrangement with owner's agent.--Not later than 30 days 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
    Energy shall enter into an arrangement pursuant to sections 1535 
    and 1536 of title 31, United States Code, with the Chief of 
    Engineers to act as an owner's agent with respect to preparing the 
    report required by paragraph (2).
        (2) Report of owner's agent.--
            (A) In general.--The Chief of Engineers shall prepare a 
        report on the contract for the construction, management and 
        operations of the MOX facility, as in effect on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, that includes the following:
                (i) An assessment of the contractual, technical, and 
            managerial risks for the Department of Energy and the 
            contractor.
                (ii) An assessment of what elements of the contract can 
            be changed to--

                    (I) a fixed price provision;
                    (II) a fixed price incentive fee provision; or
                    (III) another contractual mechanism designed to 
                minimize risk to the Department of Energy while 
                reducing cost.

                (iii) An assessment of the options under clause (ii), 
            including milestones, cost, schedules, and any damage fees 
            for those options.
                (iv) Recommendations on changes to the contract, based 
            on the assessments described in clauses (i), (ii), and 
            (iii), to reduce risk and cost to the Department of Energy 
            while preserving a fair and reasonable contract.
                (v) For each element of the contract that the Chief of 
            Engineers does not recommend be changed pursuant to clause 
            (iv), an assessment of the risks and costs associated with 
            that element and a description of why that element is not 
            appropriate for the provision types described in clause 
            (ii).
            (B) Consultations.--In preparing the report required by 
        subparagraph (A), the Chief of Engineers shall consult with the 
        Secretary, the contractor referred to in subparagraph (A)(i), 
        and other knowledgeable parties, as the Chief of Engineers 
        considers appropriate.
            (C) Submission to secretary.--Not later than 30 days after 
        entering into the arrangement under paragraph (1), the Chief of 
        Engineers shall submit to the Secretary the report required by 
        subparagraph (A).
        (3) Submissions by department of energy.--Not later than 60 
    days after receiving the report required by paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary shall transmit to the congressional defense committees 
    and the Comptroller General of the United States--
            (A) the report;
            (B) any comments of the Secretary with respect to the 
        report;
            (C) a determination of whether the contractor referred to 
        in paragraph (2)(A)(i) will or will not agree to the revisions 
        to the contract recommended by the Chief of Engineers and 
        offered by the Secretary to the contractor;
            (D) if the contractor will not agree to such revisions, a 
        description of the reasons given for not agreeing to such 
        revisions; and
            (E) any other materials relating to the potential 
        modification of the contract that the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
        (4) Briefing by government accountability office.--Not later 
    than 30 days after receiving the report and other matters under 
    paragraph (3), the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
    brief the congressional defense committees on the actions taken by 
    the Secretary under this subsection, to be followed by a written 
    report not later than 120 days after the briefing is provided to 
    Congress.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) MOX facility.--The term ``MOX facility'' means the mixed-
    oxide fuel fabrication facility at the Savannah River Site, Aiken, 
    South Carolina.
        (2) Project support activities.--The term ``project support 
    activities'' means activities that support the design, long-lead 
    equipment procurement, and site preparation of the MOX facility.
SEC. 3117. DESIGN BASIS THREAT.
    (a) Update to Order.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall update Department 
of Energy Order 470.3B relating to the design basis threat for 
protecting nuclear weapons, special nuclear material, and other 
critical assets in the custody of the Department of Energy.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of 
    the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))) should 
    promulgate regular, biannual updates to the Nuclear Security Threat 
    Capabilities Assessment to better inform nuclear security postures 
    within the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy;
        (2) the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy 
    should closely, and in real-time, track and assess national, 
    regional, and local threats to the defense nuclear facilities of 
    the respective Departments; and
        (3) the Department of Defense and the Department of Energy 
    should regularly review assessments and other input provided by 
    activities described in paragraphs (1) and (2) and adjust security 
    postures accordingly.
SEC. 3118. INDUSTRY BEST PRACTICES IN OPERATIONS AT NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
SECURITY ADMINISTRATION FACILITIES AND SITES.
    (a) Committee on Industry Best Practices in Operations.--The 
Administrator for Nuclear Security shall establish within the National 
Nuclear Security Administration a committee (in this section referred 
to as the ``committee'') to identify and oversee the implementation of 
best practices of industry in the operations of the facilities and 
sites of the Administration for the purposes of--
        (1) improving mission performance and effectiveness;
        (2) lowering costs and administrative burdens; and
        (3) also both--
            (A) maintaining or reducing risks; and
            (B) preserving and protecting health, safety, and security.
    (b) Membership.--The committee shall be composed of personnel of 
the Administration assigned by the Administrator to the committee as 
follows:
        (1) The Principal Deputy Administrator for Nuclear Security, 
    who shall serve as chair of the committee.
        (2) Government personnel representing the headquarters of the 
    Administration.
        (3) Government personnel representing offices of facilities and 
    sites of the Administration.
        (4) Contractor personnel representing the national security 
    laboratories and the nuclear weapons production facilities (as 
    those terms are defined in section 4002 of the Atomic Energy 
    Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501)).
        (5) Such other personnel as the Administrator considers 
    appropriate.
    (c) Duties.--The duties of the committee shall include the 
following:
        (1) To identify and oversee the implementation of best 
    practices of industry in the operations of the facilities and sites 
    of the Administration for the purposes described in subsection (a).
        (2) To conduct surveys of the facilities and sites of the 
    Administration in order to assess the adoption, implementation, and 
    use by such facilities and sites of best practices of industry 
    described in subsection (a).
        (3) To carry out such other activities consistent with the 
    duties of the committee under this subsection as the Administrator 
    may specify for purposes of this section.
    (d) Annual Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date on which 
    the budget of the President for a fiscal year after fiscal year 
    2017 is submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 
    31, United States Code, the Administrator shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report on the activities of 
    the committee under this section during the preceding calendar 
    year.
        (2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall include, 
    for the calendar year covered by such report, the following:
            (A) A description of the activities of the committee.
            (B) The results of the surveys undertaken pursuant to 
        subsection (c)(2).
            (C) As a result of the surveys, recommendations for 
        modifications to the scope or applicability of regulations and 
        orders of the Department of Energy to particular facilities and 
        sites of the Administration in order to implement best 
        practices of industry in the operation of such facilities and 
        sites, including--
                (i) a list of the facilities and sites at which such 
            regulations and orders could be so modified; and
                (ii) for each such facility and site, the manner in 
            which the scope or applicability of such regulations and 
            orders could be so modified.
            (D) An assessment of the progress of the Administration in 
        implementing best practices of industry in the operations of 
        the facilities and sites of the Administration.
            (E) An estimate of the costs to be saved as a result of the 
        best practices of industry implemented by the Administration at 
        the facilities and sites of the Administration, set forth by 
        fiscal year.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
    means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (e) Termination.--The committee shall terminate after the submittal 
under subsection (d) of the report required by that subsection that 
covers 2021.
SEC. 3119. PILOT PROGRAM ON UNAVAILABILITY FOR OVERHEAD COSTS OF 
AMOUNTS SPECIFIED FOR LABORATORY-DIRECTED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall establish a pilot 
program under which each national security laboratory (as defined in 
section 4002 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501)) is 
prohibited from using funds described in subsection (b) to cover the 
costs of general and administrative overhead for the laboratory.
    (b) Funds Described.--The funds described in this subsection are 
funds made available for a national security laboratory under section 
4811(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2791(c)) for 
laboratory-directed research and development.
    (c) Duration.--The pilot program required by subsection (a) shall--
        (1) take effect on the first day of the first fiscal year 
    beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act; and
        (2) terminate on the date that is three years after the day 
    described in paragraph (1).
    (d) Report Required.--Before the termination under subsection 
(c)(2) of the pilot program required by subsection (a), the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report that assesses the costs, benefits, risks, 
and other effects of the pilot program.
SEC. 3120. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED NAVAL NUCLEAR FUEL 
SYSTEM BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided in subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2017 for the Department of Energy may be 
obligated or expended to plan or carry out research and development of 
an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium.
    (b) Exception.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for defense 
nuclear nonproliferation, as specified in the funding table in division 
D, not more than $5,000,000 shall be made available to the Deputy 
Administrator for Naval Reactors of the National Nuclear Security 
Administration for initial planning and early research and development 
of an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium.
    (c) Budget Matters.--Section 3118 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 
1196) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c), by striking paragraph (2) and inserting 
    the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Budget requests.--If the Secretaries determine under 
    paragraph (1) that research and development of an advanced naval 
    nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium should continue, 
    the Secretaries shall ensure that each budget of the President 
    submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
    States Code, for fiscal year 2018 and each fiscal year thereafter 
    in which such research and development is carried out includes in 
    the budget line item for the `Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation' 
    account amounts necessary to carry out the conceptual plan under 
    subsection (b).''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``for material management 
    and minimization''.
SEC. 3121. INCREASE IN CERTAIN LIMITATIONS APPLICABLE TO FUNDS FOR 
CONCEPTUAL AND CONSTRUCTION DESIGN OF THE DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY.
    (a) Requests for Conceptual Design Funds.--Subsection (a)(2) of 
section 4706 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2746) is 
amended by striking ``$3,000,000'' and inserting ``$5,000,000''.
    (b) Construction Design.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended 
by striking ``$1,000,000'' each place it appears and inserting 
``$2,000,000''.
SEC. 3122. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROGRAMS IN RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION.
    (a) Prohibition.--
        (1) In general.--None of the funds described in paragraph (2) 
    may be obligated or expended to enter into a contract with, or 
    otherwise provide assistance to, the Russian Federation.
        (2) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph are 
    the following:
            (A) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
        otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for atomic energy 
        defense activities.
            (B) Funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
        available for a fiscal year prior to fiscal year 2017 for 
        atomic energy defense activities that are unobligated or 
        unexpended as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Energy, without delegation, may waive 
the prohibition in subsection (a)(1) only if--
        (1) the Secretary determines, in writing, that a nuclear-
    related threat arising in the Russian Federation must be addressed 
    urgently and it is necessary to waive the prohibition to address 
    that threat;
        (2) the Secretary of State and the Secretary of Defense concur 
    in the determination under paragraph (1);
        (3) the Secretary of Energy submits to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report containing--
            (A) a notification that the waiver is in the national 
        security interest of the United States;
            (B) justification for the waiver, including the 
        determination under paragraph (1); and
            (C) a description of the activities to be carried out 
        pursuant to the waiver, including the expected cost and 
        timeframe for such activities; and
        (4) a period of 15 days elapses following the date on which the 
    Secretary submits the report under paragraph (3).
    (c) Exception.--The prohibition under subsection (a)(1) and the 
requirements under subsection (b) to waive that prohibition shall not 
apply to an amount, not to exceed $3,000,000, that the Secretary may 
make available for the Department of Energy Russian Health Studies 
Program.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 3123. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR FEDERAL SALARIES AND 
EXPENSES.
    (a) In General.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the National 
Nuclear Security Administration for defense-related Federal salaries 
and expenses, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the date on which the Secretary of Energy submits to the 
congressional defense committees and the congressional intelligence 
committees the following:
        (1) The updated plan on the designing and building of 
    prototypes of nuclear weapons that is required--
            (A) by paragraph (2) of section 4509(a) of the Atomic 
        Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2660(a)), to be developed by not 
        later than the date on which the budget of the President for 
        fiscal year 2018 is submitted to Congress; and
            (B) by paragraph (3)(B) of such section, to be submitted to 
        the congressional defense committees and the congressional 
        intelligence committees.
        (2) A description of the determination of the Secretary under 
    paragraph (4)(B) of such section with respect to the manner in 
    which the designing and building of prototypes of nuclear weapons 
    is carried out under such updated plan.
    (b)  Congressional Intelligence Committees Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``congressional intelligence committees'' means the 
Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 3124. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DEFENSE 
ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PROGRAM DIRECTION.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2017 for defense environmental cleanup 
for program direction, not more than 90 percent may be obligated or 
expended until the date on which the Secretary of Energy submits to 
Congress the future-years defense environmental cleanup plan required 
to be submitted during 2017 under section 4402A of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2582a).
SEC. 3125. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR ACCELERATION OF 
NUCLEAR WEAPONS DISMANTLEMENT.
    (a) Limitation on Maximum Amount for Dismantlement.--Of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available 
for any of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 for the National Nuclear 
Security Administration, not more than $56,000,000 may be obligated or 
expended in each such fiscal year to carry out the nuclear weapons 
dismantlement and disposition activities of the Administration.
    (b) Limitation on Acceleration of Dismantlement Activities.--Except 
as provided by subsection (c), none of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for any of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021 for the National Nuclear Security 
Administration may be obligated or expended to accelerate the nuclear 
weapons dismantlement activities of the United States to a rate that 
exceeds the rate described in the Stockpile Stewardship and Management 
Plan schedule.
    (c) Exception.--The limitation in subsection (b) shall not apply to 
the following:
        (1) The dismantlement of a nuclear weapon not covered by the 
    Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan schedule if the 
    Administrator for Nuclear Security certifies, in writing, to the 
    congressional defense committees that--
            (A) the components of the nuclear weapon are directly 
        required for the purposes of a current life extension program; 
        or
            (B) such dismantlement is necessary to conduct maintenance 
        or surveillance of the nuclear weapons stockpile or to ensure 
        the safety or reliability of the nuclear weapons stockpile.
        (2) The dismantlement of a nuclear weapon if the President 
    certifies, in writing, to the congressional defense committees 
    that--
            (A) such dismantlement is being carried out pursuant to a 
        nuclear arms reduction treaty or similar international 
        agreement that requires such dismantlement; and
            (B) such treaty or similar international agreement--
                (i) has entered into force after the date of the 
            enactment of this Act; and
                (ii) was approved--

                    (I) with the advice and consent of the Senate 
                pursuant to clause 2 of section 2 of Article II of the 
                Constitution of the United States after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act; or
                    (II) by an Act of Congress, as described in section 
                303(b) of the Arms Control and Disarmament Act (22 
                U.S.C. 2573(b)).

    (d) Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan Schedule Defined.--In 
this section, the term ``Stockpile Stewardship and Management Plan 
schedule'' means the schedule described in table 2-7 of the annex of 
the report titled ``Fiscal Year 2016 Stockpile Stewardship and 
Management Plan'' submitted in March 2015 by the Administrator for 
Nuclear Security to the congressional defense committees under section 
4203(b)(2) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2523(b)(2)).

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

SEC. 3131. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT UNDER 
DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP PROGRAM.
    (a) Assessment.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall seek to enter into 
an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct an 
independent assessment of the technology development efforts of the 
defense environmental cleanup program of the Department of Energy.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A review of the technology development efforts of the 
    defense environmental cleanup program of the Department of Energy, 
    including an assessment of the process by which the Secretary 
    identifies and chooses technologies to pursue under the program.
        (2) A comprehensive review and assessment of technologies or 
    alternative approaches to defense environmental cleanup efforts 
    that could--
            (A) reduce the long-term costs of such efforts;
            (B) accelerate schedules for carrying out such efforts;
            (C) mitigate uncertainties, vulnerabilities, or risks 
        relating to such efforts; or
            (D) otherwise significantly improve the defense 
        environmental cleanup program.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than the date that is 18 months after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the National Academy of Sciences 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees and the Secretary 
a report on the assessment under subsection (a).
SEC. 3132. UPDATED PLAN FOR VERIFICATION AND MONITORING OF 
PROLIFERATION OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS AND FISSILE MATERIAL.
    (a) Updated Plan.--
        (1) Transmission.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the President shall transmit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a comprehensive and detailed 
    update to the plan developed under section 3133(a) of the Carl 
    Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3896) with 
    respect to verification and monitoring relating to the potential 
    proliferation of nuclear weapons, components of such weapons, and 
    fissile material.
        (2) Form.--The updated plan under paragraph (1) shall be 
    transmitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
    (b) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2017 for the Department 
of Defense for supporting the Executive Office of the President, 
$10,000,000 may not be obligated or expended until the date on which 
the President transmits to the appropriate congressional committees the 
updated plan under subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall provide to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and House of Representatives (and any 
other appropriate congressional committee upon request) an interim 
briefing on the updated plan under subsection (a)(1).
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives.
        (3) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
        (4) The Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs 
    of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland Security of the House 
    of Representatives.
        (5) The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of 
    the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 3133. REPORT ON THE USE OF HIGHLY-ENRICHED URANIUM FOR NAVAL 
REACTORS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, 
and the Secretary of State, shall, in accordance with the protection of 
sources and methods, submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report that includes the following:
        (1) An assessment on the current and anticipated intentions of 
    countries producing or using highly-enriched uranium in naval 
    reactors or considering the development of naval reactors.
        (2) An evaluation of the security measures each country 
    producing or using highly-enriched uranium in naval reactors has in 
    place.
        (3) An evaluation of the potential effects on nuclear 
    nonproliferation efforts and the naval reactor programs and related 
    actions of other countries if the United States pursued the 
    development of an advanced low-enriched uranium fuel for certain 
    United States naval reactors as described in the report of the 
    Director of Naval Reactors to Congress, dated July 2016 and 
    entitled ``Conceptual Research and Development Plan for Low-
    Enriched Uranium Naval Fuel''.
        (4) Such other information or updates as the Director of 
    National Intelligence, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
    Energy, and the Secretary of State consider appropriate.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 3134. ANALYSIS OF APPROACHES FOR SUPPLEMENTAL TREATMENT OF LOW-
ACTIVITY WASTE AT HANFORD NUCLEAR RESERVATION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall enter into an 
arrangement with a federally funded research and development center to 
conduct an analysis of approaches for treating the portion of low-
activity waste at the Hanford Nuclear Reservation, Richland, 
Washington, that, as of such date of enactment, is intended for 
supplemental treatment.
    (b) Elements.--The analysis required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An analysis of, at a minimum, the following approaches for 
    treating the low-activity waste described in subsection (a):
            (A) Further processing of the low-activity waste to remove 
        long-lived radioactive constituents, particularly technetium-99 
        and iodine-129, for immobilization with high-level waste.
            (B) Vitrification, grouting, and steam reforming, and other 
        alternative approaches identified by the Department of Energy 
        for immobilizing the low-activity waste.
        (2) An analysis of the following:
            (A) The risks of the approaches described in paragraph (1) 
        relating to treatment and final disposition.
            (B) The benefits and costs of such approaches.
            (C) Anticipated schedules for such approaches, including 
        the time needed to complete necessary construction and to begin 
        treatment operations.
            (D) The compliance of such approaches with applicable 
        technical standards associated with and contained in 
        regulations prescribed pursuant to the Comprehensive 
        Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 
        (42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.), the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 
        U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) (commonly referred to as the ``Resource 
        Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976''), the Federal Water 
        Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq.) (commonly 
        referred to as the ``Clean Water Act''), and the Clean Air Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.).
            (E) Any obstacles that would inhibit the ability of the 
        Department of Energy to pursue such approaches.
    (c) Review of Analysis.--
        (1) In general.--Concurrent with entering into an arrangement 
    with a federally funded research and development center under 
    subsection (a), the Secretary shall enter into an arrangement with 
    the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine to 
    conduct a review of the analysis conducted by the federally funded 
    research and development center.
        (2) Method of review.--The review required by paragraph (1) 
    shall be conducted concurrent with the analysis required by 
    subsection (a), and in a manner that is parallel to that analysis, 
    so that the results of the review may be used to improve the 
    quality of the analysis.
        (3) Public review.--In conducting the review required paragraph 
    (1), the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine 
    shall provide an opportunity for public comment, with sufficient 
    notice, to inform and improve the quality of the review.
    (d) Consultation With State.--Prior to the submission in accordance 
with subsection (e)(2) of the analysis required by subsection (a) and 
the review of the analysis required by subsection (c), the federally 
funded research and development center and the National Academies of 
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine shall provide to the State of 
Washington--
        (1) the analysis and review in draft form; and
        (2) an opportunity to comment on the analysis and review for a 
    period of not less than 60 days.
    (e) Submission to Congress.--
        (1) Briefings on progress.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter 
    until the materials described in paragraph (2) are submitted in 
    accordance with that paragraph, the Secretary shall provide to the 
    congressional defense committees a briefing on the progress being 
    made on the analysis required by subsection (a) and the review of 
    the analysis required by subsection (c).
        (2) Completed analysis and review.--Not later than two years 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees the analysis 
    required by subsection (a), the review of the analysis required by 
    subsection (c), any comments of the State of Washington under 
    subsection (d)(2), and any comments of the Secretary on the 
    analysis or the review of the analysis.
    (f) Limitations.--
        (1) Secretary of energy.--This section does not conflict with 
    or impair the obligation of the Secretary to comply with any 
    requirement of--
            (A) the amended consent decree in Washington v. Moniz, No. 
        2:08-CV-5085-RMP (E.D. Wash.); or
            (B) the Hanford Federal Facility Agreement and Consent 
        Order.
        (2) State of washington.--This section does not conflict with 
    or impair the regulatory authority of the State of Washington under 
    the Solid Waste Disposal Act (42 U.S.C. 6901 et seq.) (commonly 
    referred to as the ``Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 
    1976'') and any corresponding State law.
SEC. 3135. CLARIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT AND CERTIFICATION ON STATUS 
OF SECURITY OF ATOMIC ENERGY DEFENSE FACILITIES.
    Section 4506(b)(1)(B) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2657(b)(1)(B)) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(B) written certification that such facilities are secure and 
    that the security measures at such facilities meet the security 
    standards and requirements of the Department of Energy.''.
SEC. 3136. REPORT ON SERVICE SUPPORT CONTRACTS AND AUTHORITY FOR 
APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN PERSONNEL.
    (a) Annual Report on Service Support Contracts.--Section 3241A(f) 
of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 
2441a(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) With respect to each contract identified under paragraph 
    (2)--
            ``(A) the cost of the contract; and
            ``(B) identification of the program or program direction 
        accounts that support the contract.''.
    (b) Extension of Authority for Appointment of Certain Personnel.--
Section 4601(c)(1) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2701(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2020''.
SEC. 3137. ELIMINATION OF CERTAIN REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Reports on Plan to Protect Against Inadvertent Release of 
Restricted Data and Formerly Restricted Data.--Section 4522 of the 
Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2672) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (e); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
    (b) GAO Report on Program on Scientific Engagement for 
Nonproliferation.--Section 3122 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 50 U.S.C. 2571 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``, and to the 
    Comptroller General of the United States,'';
        (2) by striking subsection (e); and
        (3) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively.
    (c) GAO Study on Adequacy of Budget Requests With Respect to 
Modernization and Refurbishment of Nuclear Weapons Stockpile.--Section 
3255 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 
2455) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Temporary Suspension.--The requirements of subsection (a) 
shall not apply with respect to the nuclear security budget materials 
submitted for fiscal year 2018 or 2019.''.
    (d) Strategy on Risks to Nonproliferation Caused by Additive 
Manufacturing.--Section 3139(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016 (Public Law 114-92; 129 Stat. 1215; 50 U.S.C. 
2367 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Briefings.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 31, 2016, and annually 
    thereafter through 2019, the President shall provide to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the strategy 
    developed under subsection (a).
        ``(2) Interim briefings.--In addition to the briefings required 
    by paragraph (1), the President shall provide to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a notification or briefing if there is a 
    development in additive manufacture technology, or increased use of 
    additive manufacture technology, that could pose an increased risk 
    to the United States from nuclear proliferation.''.
SEC. 3138. REPORT ON UNITED STATES NUCLEAR DETERRENCE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 15 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall, consistent with 
the protection of sources and methods, submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees the full, unredacted report, and any related 
materials, titled ``U.S. Nuclear Deterrence in the Coming Decades'', 
dated August 15, 2014.
    (b) Cover Letter.--The Secretary may submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees, with the report submitted under subsection 
(a), a cover letter containing any views or perspectives of the 
Secretary on the report or related matters.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.
    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2017, 
$31,000,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Amount.--There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Energy $14,950,000 for fiscal year 2017 for the purpose of 
carrying out activities under chapter 641 of title 10, United States 
Code, relating to the naval petroleum reserves.
    (b) Period of Availability.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available until expended.

                      TITLE XXXV--MARITIME MATTERS

 Subtitle A--Maritime Administration, Coast Guard, and Shipping Matters

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Authority to extend certain age restrictions relating to 
          vessels in the Maritime Security Fleet.
Sec. 3503. Corrections to provisions enacted by Coast Guard 
          Authorization Acts.
Sec. 3504. Status of National Defense Reserve Fleet vessels.
Sec. 3505. NDRF national security multi-mission vessel.
Sec. 3506. Superintendent of United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3507. Use of National Defense Reserve Fleet scrapping proceeds.
Sec. 3508. Floating dry docks.
Sec. 3509. Transportation worker identification credentials for 
          individuals undergoing separation, discharge, or release from 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 3510. Actions to address sexual harassment and sexual assault at 
          the United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3511. Sexual assault response coordinators and sexual assault 
          victim advocates.
Sec. 3512. Report from the Department of Transportation Inspector 
          General.
Sec. 3513. Sexual assault prevention and response working group.
Sec. 3514. Sea Year compliance.
Sec. 3515. State maritime academy physical standards and reporting.
Sec. 3516. Appointments.
Sec. 3517. Maritime workforce working group.
Sec. 3518. Maritime extreme weather task force.
Sec. 3519. Workforce plans and onboarding policies.
Sec. 3520. Drug and alcohol policy.
Sec. 3521. Vessel transfers.
Sec. 3522. Clarifying amendment; continuation boards.
Sec. 3523. Polar icebreaker recapitalization plan.
Sec. 3524. GAO report on icebreaking capability in United States.

           Subtitle B--Pribilof Islands Transition Completion

Sec. 3531. Short title.
Sec. 3532. Conveyance of property.
Sec. 3533. Transfer, use, and disposal of tract 43.

  Subtitle C--Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention at the National 
                 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

Sec. 3541. Actions to address sexual harassment at National Oceanic and 
          Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 3542. Actions to address sexual assault at National Oceanic and 
          Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 3543. Rights of the victim of a sexual assault.
Sec. 3544. Change of station.
Sec. 3545. Applicability of policies to crews of vessels secured by 
          National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration under 
          contract.
Sec. 3546. Annual report on sexual assaults in the National Oceanic and 
          Atmospheric Administration.
Sec. 3547. Sexual assault defined.

 Subtitle A--Maritime Administration, Coast Guard, and Shipping Matters

SEC. 3501. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.
    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Transportation for fiscal year 2017, to be available without fiscal 
year limitation if so provided in appropriations Acts, for programs 
associated with maintaining the United States merchant marine, the 
following amounts:
        (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United States 
    Merchant Marine Academy, $99,902,000, of which--
            (A) $74,851,000 shall be for Academy operations; and
            (B) $25,051,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        capital asset management at the Academy.
        (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
    academies, $29,550,000, of which--
            (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until September 30, 
        2018, for the Student Incentive Program;
            (B) $3,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        direct payments to such academies;
            (C) $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training 
        vessels;
            (D) $1,800,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        training ship fuel assistance; and
            (E) $350,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        expenses to improve the monitoring of the service obligations 
        of graduates.
        (3) For expenses necessary to support the National Security 
    Multi-Mission Vessel Program, $36,000,000, which shall remain 
    available until expended.
        (4) For expenses necessary to support Maritime Administration 
    operations and programs, $58,694,000.
        (5) For expenses necessary to dispose of vessels in the 
    National Defense Reserve Fleet, $20,000,000, which shall remain 
    available until expended.
        (6) For expenses necessary to maintain and preserve a United 
    States flag merchant marine to serve the national security needs of 
    the United States under chapter 531 of title 46, United States 
    Code, $299,997,000.
        (7) For expenses necessary to provide assistance for small 
    shipyards and maritime communities under section 54101 of title 46, 
    United States Code, $30,000,000, of which--
            (A) $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        training grants; and
            (B) $25,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        capital and related improvements.
        (8) For administrative expenses associated with the program 
    authorized by chapter 537 of title 46, United States Code, 
    $3,000,000, which shall remain available until expended.
SEC. 3502. AUTHORITY TO EXTEND CERTAIN AGE RESTRICTIONS RELATING TO 
VESSELS IN THE MARITIME SECURITY FLEET.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--Section 53102 of title 46, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Authority To Extend Maximum Service Age for Vessel.--The 
Secretary of Defense, in conjunction with the Secretary of 
Transportation, may, for a particular participating fleet vessel, treat 
the ages specified in section 53101(5)(A)(ii) and section 53106(c)(3) 
as increased by up to 5 years if the Secretaries jointly determine that 
it is in the national interest to do so.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--The heading of subsection (f) of 
    such section is amended to read as follows: ``Authority To Waive 
    Age Restriction for Eligibility of a Vessel To Be Included in 
    Fleet.--''.
    (b) Repeal of Redundant Age Limitation.--Section 53106(c)(3) of 
such title is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or (C);'' and inserting 
    ``; or'';
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
    period; and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (C).
SEC. 3503. CORRECTIONS TO PROVISIONS ENACTED BY COAST GUARD 
AUTHORIZATION ACTS.
    (a) Short Title Correction.--The Coast Guard Authorization Act of 
2015 (Public Law 114-120) is amended by striking ``Coast Guard 
Authorization Act of 2015'' each place it appears (including in quoted 
material) and inserting ``Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016''.
    (b) Title 46, United States Code.--
        (1) Exam review.--Section 7510(c) of title 46, United States 
    Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(D), by striking ``engine'' and 
        inserting ``engineer''; and
            (B) in paragraph (9), by inserting a period after ``App''.
        (2) Vessel certification.--Section 4503(f)(2) of title 46, 
    United States Code, is amended by striking ``, that'' and inserting 
    ``, then''.
    (c) Provisions Relating to the Pribilof Islands.--Section 521 of 
the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-120), as 
amended by subsection (a), is amended by striking ``2015'' and 
inserting ``2016''.
    (d) Title 14, United States Code.--
        (1) Redistribution of authorizations of appropriations.--
    Section 2702 of title 14, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``$6,981,036,000'' and 
        inserting ``$6,986,815,000''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3)(B), by striking ``$140,016,000'' and 
        inserting ``$134,237,000''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The analysis at the beginning of part 
    III of title 14, United States Code, is amended by striking the 
    period at the end of the item relating to chapter 29.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect as if included in the enactment of Public Law 114-120.
SEC. 3504. STATUS OF NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE FLEET VESSELS.
    Section 11 of the Merchant Ship Sales Act of 1946 (50 U.S.C. 4405) 
is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following: 
    ``Vessels in the National Defense Reserve Fleet, including vessels 
    loaned to State maritime academies, shall be considered public 
    vessels of the United States.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Vessel Status.--A vessel in the National Defense Reserve 
Fleet determined by the Maritime Administration to be of insufficient 
value to remain in the National Defense Reserve Fleet shall remain a 
vessel within the meaning of that term in section 3 of title 1, United 
States Code, and subject to the rights and responsibilities of a vessel 
under admiralty law at least until such time as the vessel is delivered 
to a dismantling facility or is disposed of otherwise from the National 
Defense Reserve Fleet.''.
SEC. 3505. NDRF NATIONAL SECURITY MULTI-MISSION VESSEL.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Transportation, in consultation 
with the Chief of Naval Operations and the Commandant of the Coast 
Guard, shall ensure that the Maritime Administrator takes all necessary 
actions--
        (1) to complete the design of a national security multi-mission 
    vessel for the National Defense Reserve Fleet to allow for the 
    construction of such vessel to begin in fiscal year 2018; and
        (2) subject to the availability of appropriations, to have an 
    entity enter into a contract for the construction of such vessel in 
    accordance with this section.
    (b) Use of Vessel.--A vessel constructed pursuant to this section 
shall be for use--
        (1) as a training vessel that can be provided to State maritime 
    academies under section 51504(b) of title 46, United States Code; 
    and
        (2) in conducting humanitarian assistance, disaster response, 
    domestic and foreign emergency contingency operations, and other 
    authorized uses of vessels of the National Defense Reserve Fleet.
    (c) Construction and Documentation Requirements.--A vessel 
constructed pursuant to this section shall meet the requirements for 
and be issued a certificate of documentation and a coastwise 
endorsement under chapter 121 of title 46, United States Code.
    (d) Design Standards and Construction Practices.--Subject to 
subsection (c), a vessel constructed pursuant to this section shall be 
constructed using commercial design standards and commercial 
construction practices that are consistent with the best interests of 
the Federal Government.
    (e) Consultation With Other Federal Entities.--The Maritime 
Administrator may consult and coordinate with the Secretary of the Navy 
regarding the vessel described in subsection (a) and activities 
associated with such vessel.
    (f) Contracting.--The Maritime Administrator shall provide for an 
entity other than the Maritime Administration to contract for the 
construction of the vessel described in subsection (a).
    (g) Repeal of Plan Approval Requirement.--Section 109(j)(3) of 
title 49, United States Code, is repealed.
SEC. 3506. SUPERINTENDENT OF UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.
    (a) In General.--Section 51301 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Superintendent.--
        ``(1) In general.--The immediate command of the United States 
    Merchant Marine Academy shall be in the Superintendent of the 
    Academy, subject to the direction of the Maritime Administrator 
    under the general supervision of the Secretary of Transportation.
        ``(2) Appointment.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
    appoint as the Superintendent--
            ``(A) an individual who has--
                ``(i) attained a general or flag officer rank in the 
            Navy, Army, Air Force, Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or 
            National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; and
                ``(ii) served at sea in any rank;
            ``(B) an individual who has--
                ``(i)(I) served at sea in the Navy, Army, Air Force, 
            Marine Corps, Coast Guard, or National Oceanic and 
            Atmospheric Administration; or
                ``(II) held a valid Coast Guard merchant mariner 
            credential; and
                ``(ii) demonstrated exemplary leadership in the 
            education of individuals in the Armed Forces or United 
            States merchant marine; or
            ``(C) if a qualified individual described in subparagraph 
        (A) or (B) does not apply for the position, an individual who 
        has--
                ``(i) attained the grade of captain or above in the 
            Navy, Coast Guard, or National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
            Administration or colonel or above in the Army, Air Force, 
            or Marine Corps; and
                ``(ii) served at sea in any grade.
        ``(3) Rule of construction.--Notwithstanding paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Transportation may appoint an individual who is the 
    best qualified candidate, even if such individual does not fully 
    meet the criteria described in paragraph (2).''.
    (b) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section may be construed to 
require any change to the current leadership of the United States 
Merchant Marine Academy.
SEC. 3507. USE OF NATIONAL DEFENSE RESERVE FLEET SCRAPPING PROCEEDS.
    (a) Funding Allocation.--Section 308704 of title 54, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
    as follows:
            ``(C) The remainder shall be available to the Secretary to 
        carry out the Program, as provided in subsection (b).''; and
        (2) in subsection (b), by amending paragraph (1) to read as 
    follows:
        ``(1) Allocation.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B) 
        and paragraph (2), of the amounts available each fiscal year 
        for the Program under subsection (a)(1)(C)--
                ``(i) 50 percent shall be used for grants under section 
            308703(b); and
                ``(ii) 50 percent shall be used for grants under 
            section 308703(c).
            ``(B) Set aside.--
                ``(i) In general.--Not less than 25 percent of the 
            amounts available each fiscal year for the Program under 
            subsection (a)(1)(C) shall be used for the preservation and 
            presentation to the public of the maritime heritage 
            property of the Maritime Administration.
                ``(ii) Direct transfers.--The Secretary may provide 
            amounts used for the preservation and presentation to the 
            public of the maritime heritage property of the Maritime 
            Administration through direct transfers to the Maritime 
            Administration.
                ``(iii) Waiver.--The Maritime Administrator may waive 
            the application of clause (i) for any fiscal year.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 308703(c)(1) of title 54, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``under section 308704(b)(1)(B)'' 
and inserting ``under section 308704(b)(1)(A)''.
    (c) Reporting Requirement.--Section 308703(j) of title 54, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
    ``Congress'' and inserting ``the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
    and Transportation of the Senate, the Committee on Energy and 
    Natural Resources of the Senate, the Committee on Natural Resources 
    of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Armed Services of 
    the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Transportation 
    and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives'';
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) as paragraphs 
    (2), (3), and (4), respectively;
        (3) by inserting before paragraph (2), as redesignated, the 
    following:
        ``(1) the total number of grant applications submitted and 
    approved under the Program in the period covered by the report;''; 
    and
        (4) in paragraph (2), as redesignated, by inserting 
    ``detailed'' before ``description''.
    (d) Annual Report by the Maritime Administration.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than January 1 of each year, the 
    Maritime Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
    Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
    Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and 
    Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report on the 
    management of the Ship Disposal program of the Maritime 
    Administration.
        (2) Contents.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) the total amount of funds, attributable to the Ship 
        Disposal program of the Maritime Administration, credited in 
        the most recently completed fiscal year to--
                (i) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund established by 
            section 50301(a) of title 46, United States Code; and
                (ii) any other account;
            (B) the balance of funds available at the end of that 
        fiscal year in--
                (i) the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund; and
                (ii) any other account for which a credited amount was 
            included under subparagraph (A)(ii);
            (C) a detailed description of the funds credited to and 
        distributions from the Vessel Operations Revolving Fund in that 
        fiscal year; and
            (D) a summary of each maritime heritage project selected by 
        the Maritime Administrator, for preservation and presentation 
        to the public of the Maritime Administration's maritime 
        heritage property, for which funds from the Vessel Operations 
        Revolving Fund were expended in that fiscal year.
    (e) Assessments by the Maritime Administration.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and biennially thereafter, the Maritime 
    Administrator shall complete an assessment of the Ship Disposal 
    program of the Maritime Administration.
        (2) Contents.--Each assessment under paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) an inventory of each vessel, subject to a disposal 
        agreement or a memorandum of agreement with another Federal 
        agency relating to the disposal of the vessel, for which the 
        Maritime Administration is acting as the disposal agency, 
        including--
                (i) the age of the vessel; and
                (ii) the name of the Federal agency that has or had 
            custody over the vessel prior to any disposal agreement or 
            memorandum of agreement with the Maritime Administration;
            (B) an inventory of each vessel of a Federal agency that 
        may meet the criteria for the Maritime Administration to act as 
        the disposal agency, including--
                (i) the age of the vessel;
                (ii) the name of the applicable Federal agency; and
                (iii) whether the vessel is expected to be declared 
            obsolete and dismantled in the next 5 years;
            (C) a plan to serve as the disposal agency, as appropriate, 
        for the vessels described in subparagraph (B);
            (D) a plan for the timely distribution of the proceeds that 
        the Maritime Administration currently has in ship disposal 
        accounts;
            (E) a projection of future distributions of such proceeds; 
        and
            (F) any other assessment related to the Ship Disposal 
        program that the Maritime Administrator determines appropriate.
        (3) Inclusion in the annual report.--A detailed description of 
    the results of each assessment under paragraph (1) shall be 
    included in the annual report under subsection (d) for the year in 
    which the assessment was completed.
    (f) Cessation of Effectiveness.--Subsections (d) and (e) of this 
section shall cease to be effective on the date that is 5 years and 1 
day after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3508. FLOATING DRY DOCKS.
    Section 55122 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following:
    ``(b) Dry Docks for Construction of Certain Naval Vessels.--
        ``(1) In general.--In applying subsection (a) to a floating dry 
    dock used for the construction of naval vessels in a shipyard 
    located in the United States, the ownership and operation 
    requirement in paragraph (1)(B) of that subsection shall be treated 
    as satisfied and `December 19, 2017' shall be substituted for the 
    date referred to in paragraph (1)(C) of that subsection if the 
    Secretary of the Navy determines that--
            ``(A) such dry dock is necessary for the timely completion 
        of such construction; and
            ``(B) such dry dock--
                ``(i) is owned and operated by--

                    ``(I) a shipyard located in the United States that 
                is an eligible owner specified under section 12103(b); 
                or
                    ``(II) an affiliate of such a shipyard; or

                ``(ii) is--

                    ``(I) owned by the State in which the shipyard is 
                located or a political subdivision of that State; and
                    ``(II) operated by a shipyard located in the United 
                States that is an eligible owner specified under 
                section 12103(b).

        ``(2) Notice to congress.--Not later than 30 days after making 
    a determination under paragraph (1), the Secretary of the Navy 
    shall notify the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, 
    Science, and Transportation of the Senate of such determination.''.
SEC. 3509. TRANSPORTATION WORKER IDENTIFICATION CREDENTIALS FOR 
INDIVIDUALS UNDERGOING SEPARATION, DISCHARGE, OR RELEASE FROM THE ARMED 
FORCES.
    (a) In General.--Section 70105 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``and'' after the 
    semicolon at the end of subparagraph (F), by redesignating 
    subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H), and by inserting after 
    subparagraph (F) the following:
        ``(G) a member of the Armed Forces who--
            ``(i) is undergoing separation, discharge, or release from 
        the Armed Forces under honorable conditions;
            ``(ii) applies for a transportation security card; and
            ``(iii) is otherwise eligible for such a card; and''; and
        (2) by amending subsection (j) to read as follows:
    ``(j) Priority Processing for Separating Service Members.--(1) The 
Secretary and the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a memorandum of 
understanding regarding the submission and processing of applications 
for transportation security cards under subsection (b)(2)(G).
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after the submission of such an 
application by an individual who is eligible to submit such an 
application, the Secretary shall process and approve or deny the 
application unless an appeal or waiver applies or further application 
documentation is necessary.''.
    (b) Deadline for Memorandum.--The Secretary of the department in 
which the Coast Guard is operating and the Secretary of Defense shall 
enter into the memorandum of understanding required by the amendment 
made by subsection (a)(2) by not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Application of Processing Deadline.--Section 70105(j)(2) of 
title 46, United States Code, as amended by this section, shall apply 
to applications for transportation security cards submitted after the 
expiration of the 180-day period beginning on the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Initial report.--
            (A) Requirement.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly submit a report 
        described in subparagraph (B) to the Committee on Armed 
        Services, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Armed 
        Services, the Committee on Homeland Security, and the Committee 
        on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (B) Contents.--The report under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include the following:
                (i) The memorandum of understanding required by section 
            70105(j)(1) of title 46, United States Code, as amended by 
            this section.
                (ii) The number of individuals eligible to apply for a 
            transportation security card under section 70105(b)(2)(G) 
            of title 46, United States Code, as amended by this 
            section, the number of such individuals who applied for 
            such a card, and the number of such individuals who have 
            been issued such a card, as of the date of the report.
                (iii) If the Secretary failed to process and approve or 
            deny any applications received from individuals eligible to 
            apply for such a card under such section before the 
            deadline specified in section 70105(j)(2) of such title, as 
            amended by this section, a description of the reasons for 
            the failure and of the actions being taken to assure that 
            future applications are processed and issued or denied 
            within such deadline.
        (2) Subsequent report.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
    of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the 
    Secretary of Homeland Security shall jointly submit a report to 
    such Committees containing the information described in clauses 
    (ii) and (iii) of paragraph (1)(B).
SEC. 3510. ACTIONS TO ADDRESS SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND SEXUAL ASSAULT AT 
THE UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.
    (a) Policy.--Chapter 513 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 51318. Policy on sexual harassment and sexual assault
    ``(a) Required Policy.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation shall direct 
    the Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine Academy to 
    prescribe a policy on sexual harassment and sexual assault 
    applicable to the cadets and other personnel of the Academy.
        ``(2) Matters to be specified in policy.--The policy on sexual 
    harassment and sexual assault prescribed under this subsection 
    shall include--
            ``(A) a program to promote awareness of the incidence of 
        rape, acquaintance rape, and other sexual offenses of a 
        criminal nature that involve cadets or other Academy personnel;
            ``(B) procedures that a cadet or other Academy personnel 
        should follow in the case of an occurrence of sexual harassment 
        or sexual assault, including--
                ``(i) specifying the person or persons to whom an 
            alleged occurrence of sexual harassment or sexual assault 
            should be reported by the victim and the options for 
            confidential reporting;
                ``(ii) specifying any other person whom the victim 
            should contact; and
                ``(iii) procedures on the preservation of evidence 
            potentially necessary for proof of criminal sexual assault;
            ``(C) a procedure for disciplinary action in cases of 
        alleged criminal sexual assault involving a cadet or other 
        Academy personnel;
            ``(D) any other sanction authorized to be imposed in a 
        substantiated case of sexual harassment or sexual assault 
        involving a cadet or other Academy personnel in rape, 
        acquaintance rape, or any other criminal sexual offense, 
        whether forcible or nonforcible;
            ``(E) procedures through which--
                ``(i) questions regarding sexual harassment or sexual 
            assault can be confidentially asked and confidentially 
            answered;
                ``(ii) victims can report incidents of sexual assault 
            confidentially; and
                ``(iii) the privacy of victims of sexual harassment and 
            sexual assault will be protected; and
            ``(F) required training on the policy for all cadets and 
        other Academy personnel, including the specific training 
        required for personnel who process allegations of sexual 
        harassment or sexual assault involving Academy personnel.
        ``(3) Availability of policy.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
    the policy developed under this subsection is available to--
            ``(A) all cadets and employees of the Academy; and
            ``(B) the public.
        ``(4) Consultation and assistance.--In developing the policy 
    under this subsection, the Secretary may consult with or receive 
    assistance from such Federal, State, local, and national 
    organizations and subject matter experts as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    ``(b) Development Program.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
    development program of the Academy includes a section that--
            ``(A) describes the relationship between honor, respect, 
        and character development and the prevention of sexual 
        harassment and sexual assault at the Academy;
            ``(B) includes a brief history of the problem of sexual 
        harassment and sexual assault in the merchant marine, in the 
        Armed Forces, and at the Academy; and
            ``(C) includes information relating to reporting sexual 
        harassment and sexual assault, victims' rights, and dismissal 
        for offenders.
        ``(2) Minimum training requirements.--The Superintendent shall 
    ensure that all cadets receive training on the sexual harassment 
    and sexual assault prevention and response sections of the 
    development program of the Academy, as described in paragraph (1), 
    as follows:
            ``(A) An initial training session, which shall occur not 
        later than 7 days after a cadet's initial arrival at the 
        Academy.
            ``(B) Additional training sessions, which shall occur 
        biannually following the cadet's initial training session until 
        the cadet graduates or leaves the Academy.
    ``(c) Annual Assessment.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, in cooperation with the 
    Superintendent, shall conduct an assessment at the Academy, during 
    each Academy program year, to determine the effectiveness of the 
    policies, procedures, and training program of the Academy with 
    respect to sexual harassment and sexual assault involving cadets or 
    other Academy personnel.
        ``(2) Biennial survey.--For each assessment of the Academy 
    under paragraph (1) during an Academy program year that begins in 
    an odd-numbered calendar year, the Secretary shall conduct a survey 
    of cadets and other Academy personnel--
            ``(A) to measure--
                ``(i) the incidence, during that program year, of 
            sexual harassment and sexual assault events involving 
            cadets or other Academy personnel, on or off the Academy 
            campus, that have been reported to officials of the 
            Academy; and
                ``(ii) the incidence, during that program year, of 
            sexual harassment and sexual assault events involving 
            cadets or other Academy personnel, on or off the Academy 
            campus, that have not been reported to officials of the 
            Academy; and
            ``(B) to assess the perceptions of cadets and other Academy 
        personnel on--
                ``(i) the policies, procedures, and training programs 
            of the Academy on sexual harassment and sexual assault 
            involving cadets or other Academy personnel;
                ``(ii) the enforcement of the policies described in 
            clause (i);
                ``(iii) the incidence of sexual harassment and sexual 
            assault involving cadets or other Academy personnel; and
                ``(iv) any other issues relating to sexual harassment 
            and sexual assault involving cadets or other Academy 
            personnel.
        ``(3) Focus groups for years when survey not required.--In any 
    year in which the Secretary is not required to conduct the survey 
    described in paragraph (2), the Secretary shall conduct focus 
    groups at the Academy for the purposes of ascertaining information 
    relating to sexual assault and sexual harassment issues at the 
    Academy.
    ``(d) Annual Report.--
        ``(1) In general.--For each Academy program year, the 
    Superintendent shall submit to the Secretary a report that provides 
    information about sexual harassment and sexual assault involving 
    cadets or other Academy personnel.
        ``(2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
    shall include, for the Academy program year covered by the report--
            ``(A) the number of sexual assaults, rapes, and other 
        sexual offenses involving cadets or other Academy personnel 
        that have been reported to Academy officials;
            ``(B) the number of the reported cases described in 
        subparagraph (A) that have been substantiated;
            ``(C) the policies, procedures, and training implemented by 
        the Superintendent and the leadership of the Academy in 
        response to incidents of sexual harassment and sexual assault 
        involving cadets and other Academy personnel; and
            ``(D) a plan for the actions that will be taken in the 
        following Academy program year regarding prevention of, and 
        response to, incidents of sexual harassment and sexual assault 
        involving cadets and other Academy personnel.
        ``(3) Survey and focus group results.--
            ``(A) Survey results.--Each report under paragraph (1) for 
        an Academy program year that begins in an odd-numbered calendar 
        year shall include the results of the survey conducted in that 
        program year under subsection (c)(2).
            ``(B) Focus group results.--Each report under paragraph (1) 
        for an Academy program year in which the Secretary is not 
        required to conduct the survey described in subsection (c)(2) 
        shall include the results of the focus group conducted in that 
        program year under subsection (c)(3).
        ``(4) Reporting requirement.--
            ``(A) By the superintendent.--For each incident of sexual 
        harassment or sexual assault reported to the Superintendent, 
        the Superintendent shall provide to the Secretary and the Board 
        of Visitors of the Academy a report that includes--
                ``(i) the facts surrounding the incident, except for 
            any details that would reveal the identities of the people 
            involved; and
                ``(ii) the Academy's response to the incident.
            ``(B) By the secretary.--The Secretary shall submit a copy 
        of each report received under subparagraph (A) and the 
        Secretary's comments on the report to the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 513 of 
title 46, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

``51318. Policy on sexual harassment and sexual assault.''.
SEC. 3511. SEXUAL ASSAULT RESPONSE COORDINATORS AND SEXUAL ASSAULT 
VICTIM ADVOCATES.
    (a) Coordinators and Advocates.--Chapter 513 of title 46, United 
States Code, as amended by this Act, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following:
``Sec. 51319. Sexual assault response coordinators and sexual assault 
     victim advocates
    ``(a) Sexual Assault Response Coordinators.--The United States 
Merchant Marine Academy shall employ or contract with at least 1 full-
time sexual assault response coordinator who shall reside at or near 
the Academy. The Secretary of Transportation may assign additional 
full-time or part-time sexual assault response coordinators at the 
Academy as necessary.
    ``(b) Volunteer Sexual Assault Victim Advocates.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
    Superintendent of the Academy, shall designate from among 
    volunteers 1 or more permanent employees of the Academy to serve as 
    advocates for victims of sexual assaults involving cadets of the 
    Academy or other Academy personnel.
        ``(2) Training; other duties.--Each victim advocate designated 
    under this subsection shall--
            ``(A) have or receive training in matters relating to 
        sexual assault and the comprehensive policy developed under 
        section 51318; and
            ``(B) serve as a victim advocate voluntarily, in addition 
        to the individual's other duties as an employee of the Academy.
        ``(3) Primary duties.--While performing the duties of a victim 
    advocate under this subsection, a designated employee shall--
            ``(A) support victims of sexual assault by informing them 
        of the rights and resources available to them as victims;
            ``(B) identify additional resources to ensure the safety of 
        victims of sexual assault; and
            ``(C) connect victims of sexual assault to companions, as 
        described in paragraph (4).
        ``(4) Companions.--
            ``(A) In general.--At least 1 victim advocate designated 
        under this subsection, or a sexual assault response coordinator 
        designated under subsection (a), while performing the duties of 
        a victim advocate, shall act as a companion to a victim 
        described in paragraph (1) in navigating investigative, 
        medical, mental, and emotional health, and recovery processes 
        relating to sexual assault.
            ``(B) Alternate victim advocates.--If requested by the 
        victim, an alternate victim advocate shall be designated under 
        this subsection to act as a companion to the victim, as 
        described in subparagraph (A).
        ``(5) Hotline.--The Secretary shall establish a 24-hour hotline 
    through which the victim of a sexual assault described in paragraph 
    (1) can receive victim support services.
        ``(6) Formal relationships with other entities.--The Secretary 
    may enter into formal relationships with other entities to make 
    available additional victim advocates or to implement paragraphs 
    (3), (4), and (5).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections for chapter 513 of 
title 46, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:

``51319. Sexual assault response coordinators and sexual assault victim 
          advocates.''.
SEC. 3512. REPORT FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION INSPECTOR 
GENERAL.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 31, 2018, the Inspector 
General of the Department of Transportation shall submit to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a report that describes the effectiveness of the sexual 
harassment and sexual assault prevention and response program at the 
United States Merchant Marine Academy.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) assess progress toward addressing any outstanding 
    recommendations;
        (2) include any recommendations to reduce the number of sexual 
    assaults involving members of the Academy, whether a member is the 
    victim, the alleged assailant, or both; and
        (3) include any recommendations to improve the response of the 
    Department and the Academy to reports of sexual assaults involving 
    members of the Academy, whether a member is the victim, a member is 
    the alleged assailant, or both.
    (c) Expertise.--In compiling the report required under this 
section, the Inspector General shall--
        (1) include on the inspection teams acting under the direction 
    of the Inspector General at least 1 member with expertise and 
    knowledge of sexual assault prevention and response policies; or
        (2) consult with subject matter experts in the prevention of 
    and response to sexual assaults.
SEC. 3513. SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE WORKING GROUP.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 21 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Maritime Administrator shall convene a 
working group to examine methods to improve the prevention of, and 
response to, any sexual harassment, sexual assault, or other 
inappropriate conduct, as well as methods to improve the shipboard 
climate, that occurs during a cadet's Sea Year experience with the 
United States Merchant Marine Academy.
    (b) Membership.--The working group shall be composed of members 
designated by the Maritime Administrator as follows:
        (1) A representative of the Maritime Administration, who shall 
    serve as the chair of the working group.
        (2) The Superintendent of the Academy (or the Superintendent's 
    designee).
        (3) A sexual assault response coordinator appointed under 
    section 51319 of title 46, United States Code, as added by this 
    Act.
        (4) A subject matter expert from the Coast Guard.
        (5) A subject matter expert from the Military Sealift Command.
        (6) A subject matter expert from the National Oceanic and 
    Atmospheric Administration.
        (7) At least 1 representative from each State maritime academy.
        (8) At least 1 representative from each private contracting 
    party participating in the maritime security program.
        (9) At least 1 representative from each nonprofit labor 
    organization representing a class or craft of employees employed on 
    vessels in the Maritime Security Fleet.
        (10) At least 2 representatives from approved maritime training 
    institutions.
        (11) At least 1 representative from companies that--
            (A) participate in sea training of Academy cadets; and
            (B) do not participate in the maritime security program.
        (12) Such additional individuals as the Maritime Administrator 
    may designate.
    (c) No Quorum Requirement.--The chair may convene the working group 
without all members present.
    (d) Responsibilities.--The working group shall--
        (1) evaluate options that could promote a climate of honor and 
    respect, and a culture that is intolerant of sexual harassment, 
    sexual assault, or other inappropriate conduct and those who commit 
    it, with operators of vessels of the United States;
        (2) raise awareness of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or 
    other inappropriate conduct with operators of vessels of the United 
    States;
        (3) assess options that could be implemented by the operators 
    of vessels of the United States that would remove any barriers to 
    the reporting of sexual harassment, sexual assault, or other 
    inappropriate conduct that occurs during a cadet's Sea Year 
    experience and protect the victim's confidentiality;
        (4) assess a potential program or policy to improve the 
    prevention of, and response to, incidents of sexual harassment, 
    sexual assault, or other inappropriate conduct;
        (5) assess a potential program or policy requiring crews to 
    complete a sexual harassment and sexual assault prevention and 
    response training program before the cadet's Sea Year that 
    includes--
            (A) fostering a shipboard climate--
                (i) that does not tolerate sexual harassment, sexual 
            assault, or other inappropriate conduct;
                (ii) in which persons assigned to vessel crews are 
            encouraged to intervene to prevent such potential 
            incidents; and
                (iii) that encourages victims to report any incident of 
            sexual harassment, sexual assault, or other inappropriate 
            conduct; and
            (B) promoting an understanding of the needs of, and the 
        resources available to, a victim after an incident of sexual 
        harassment, sexual assault, or other inappropriate conduct;
        (6) assess all other feasible changes to Sea Year training at 
    the Academy, and corresponding changes to curricula, to improve 
    prevention of and response to incidents of sexual harassment, 
    sexual assault, and other inappropriate conduct; and
        (7) assess how vessel operators could ensure the 
    confidentiality of a report of sexual harassment, sexual assault, 
    or other inappropriate conduct in order to protect the victim and 
    prevent retribution.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 9 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the working group shall submit to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives a report that includes--
        (1) recommendations on each of the working group's 
    responsibilities described in subsection (d);
        (2) a description of the trade-offs, opportunities, and 
    challenges associated with the recommendations described in 
    paragraph (1);
        (3) a description of administrative actions taken as result of 
    the recommendations described in paragraph (1); and
        (4) any other information the working group determines 
    appropriate.
SEC. 3514. SEA YEAR COMPLIANCE.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Maritime Administrator, in consultation with operators of 
commercial vessels of the United States, shall establish--
        (1) criteria that vessel operators must meet in order to 
    participate in the Sea Year program of the United States Merchant 
    Marine Academy that addresses sexual harassment, sexual assault, 
    and other inappropriate conduct; and
        (2) a process for verifying compliance with the criteria.
SEC. 3515. STATE MARITIME ACADEMY PHYSICAL STANDARDS AND REPORTING.
    Section 51506 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``must'' and inserting ``shall'';
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (C) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(4) agree that any individual enrolled at such State maritime 
    academy in a merchant marine officer preparation program--
            ``(A) shall, not later than 9 months after such 
        individual's date of enrollment, pass an examination in form 
        and substance satisfactory to the Secretary that demonstrates 
        that such individual meets the medical and physical 
        requirements--
                ``(i) required for the issuance of an original license 
            under section 7101; or
                ``(ii) set by the Coast Guard for issuing merchant 
            mariners' documentation under section 7302, with no limit 
            to the individual's operational authority;
            ``(B) following passage of the examination under 
        subparagraph (A), shall continue to meet the requirements 
        described in subparagraph (A) throughout the remainder of the 
        individual's enrollment at the State maritime academy; and
            ``(C) if the individual has a medical or physical condition 
        that disqualifies the individual from meeting the requirements 
        referred to in subparagraph (A), shall be transferred to a 
        program other than a merchant marine officer preparation 
        program, or otherwise appropriately disenrolled from such State 
        maritime academy, until the individual demonstrates to the 
        Secretary that the individual meets such requirements.''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Secretarial Waiver Authority.--The Secretary may modify or 
waive any of the terms set forth in subsection (a)(4) with respect to 
any individual or State maritime academy.''.
SEC. 3516. APPOINTMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 51303 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``40'' and inserting ``50''.
    (b) Class Profiles.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than August 31 of each year, the 
    Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine Academy shall 
    post on the Academy's public website a profile of each class at the 
    Academy.
        (2) Contents.--Each profile posted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include, for the incoming class of the Academy and for the 4 
    classes that preceded that class at the Academy, the number and 
    percentage of students by--
            (A) State;
            (B) country;
            (C) gender;
            (D) race and ethnicity; and
            (E) prior military service.
SEC. 3517. MARITIME WORKFORCE WORKING GROUP.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Maritime Administrator, in consultation with 
the Coast Guard Merchant Marine Personnel Advisory Committee and the 
Committee on the Marine Transportation System, shall convene a working 
group to examine and assess the size of the pool of United States 
citizen mariners necessary to support the United States flag fleet in 
times of national emergency.
    (b) Membership.--The Maritime Administrator shall designate 
individuals to serve as members of the working group convened under 
subsection (a). The working group shall include, at a minimum, at least 
1 representative from each of--
        (1) the Maritime Administration, who shall serve as chairperson 
    of the working group;
        (2) the United States Merchant Marine Academy;
        (3) the Coast Guard;
        (4) the Military Sealift Command;
        (5) the Navy;
        (6) the State maritime academies;
        (7) a nonprofit labor organization representing a class of 
    licensed employees who are employed on vessels operating in the 
    United States flag fleet;
        (8) a nonprofit labor organization representing a class of 
    unlicensed employees who are employed on vessels operating in the 
    United States flag fleet;
        (9) the pool of owners of vessels operating in the United 
    States flag fleet, or their private contracting parties, that are 
    primarily operating in coastwise trades; and
        (10) the pool of owners of vessels operating in the United 
    States flag fleet, or their private contracting parties, that are 
    primarily operating in international transportation.
    (c) No Quorum Requirement.--The Maritime Administrator may convene 
the working group virtually and without all members present.
    (d) Responsibilities.--The working group shall--
        (1) identify the number of United States citizen mariners--
            (A) in total;
            (B) that have a valid Coast Guard merchant mariner 
        credential with the necessary endorsements for service on 
        unlimited tonnage vessels that are subject to the International 
        Convention on Standards of Training, Certification and 
        Watchkeeping for Seafarers, 1978, as amended;
            (C) that are involved in Federal programs that support the 
        United States merchant marine and the United States flag fleet;
            (D) that are available to crew the United States flag fleet 
        and the surge sealift fleet in times of a national emergency;
            (E) that are full-time mariners;
            (F) that have sailed in the prior 18 months;
            (G) that are primarily operating in noncontiguous or 
        coastwise trades; and
            (H) that are merchant mariner credentialed officers in the 
        United States Navy Reserve;
        (2) assess the impact on the United States merchant marine and 
    United States Merchant Marine Academy if graduates from State 
    maritime academies and the United States Merchant Marine Academy 
    were assigned to, or required to fulfill, certain maritime 
    positions based on the overall needs of the United States merchant 
    marine;
        (3) assess the Coast Guard Merchant Mariner Licensing and 
    Documentation System and its accessibility and value to the 
    Maritime Administration for the purposes of evaluating the pool of 
    United States citizen mariners; and
        (4) make recommendations to enhance the availability and 
    quality of interagency data, including data from the United States 
    Transportation Command, the Coast Guard, the Navy, and the Bureau 
    of Transportation Statistics, for use by the Maritime 
    Administration for evaluating the pool of United States citizen 
    mariners.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall submit a report to 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, 
the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives, and 
the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives that contains the results of the study conducted under 
this section, including--
        (1) the number of United States citizen mariners identified for 
    each category described in subparagraphs (A) through (H) of 
    subsection (d)(1);
        (2) the results of the assessments conducted under paragraphs 
    (2) and (3) of subsection (d); and
        (3) the recommendations made under subsection (d)(4).
    (f) Inclusion of Merchant Marine-credentialed Officers in the Navy 
Reserve.--For the purposes of this section, the term ``United States 
citizen mariners'' includes, but is not limited to, officers in the 
United States Navy Reserve who are holders of merchant mariner 
credentials, as determined by the Secretary of the Navy.
    (g) Sunset.--The Maritime Administrator may disband the working 
group upon submission of the report under subsection (e).
SEC. 3518. MARITIME EXTREME WEATHER TASK FORCE.
    (a) Establishment of Task Force.--Not later than 15 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation 
shall establish a task force to analyze the impact of extreme weather 
events, such as in the maritime environment (referred to in this 
section as the ``Task Force'').
    (b) Membership.--The Task Force shall be composed of--
        (1) the Secretary or the Secretary's designee; and
        (2) a representative of--
            (A) the Coast Guard;
            (B) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration; 
        and
            (C) such other Federal agency or independent commission as 
        the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (4), not later 
    than 180 days after the date it is established under subsection 
    (a), the Task Force shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
    Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a 
    report on the analysis under subsection (a).
        (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) an identification of available weather prediction, 
        monitoring, and routing technology resources;
            (B) an identification of industry best practices relating 
        to response to, and prevention of marine casualties from, 
        extreme weather events;
            (C) a description of how the resources described in 
        subparagraph (A) are used in the various maritime sectors, 
        including by passenger and cargo vessels;
            (D) recommendations for improving maritime response 
        operations to extreme weather events and preventing marine 
        casualties from extreme weather events, such as promoting the 
        use of risk communications and the technologies identified 
        under subparagraph (A); and
            (E) recommendations for any legislative or regulatory 
        actions for improving maritime response operations to extreme 
        weather events and preventing marine casualties from extreme 
        weather events.
        (3) Publication.--The Secretary shall make the report under 
    paragraph (1) and any notification under paragraph (4) publicly 
    accessible in an electronic format.
        (4) Imminent threats.--The Task Force shall immediately notify 
    the Secretary of any finding or recommendations that could protect 
    the safety of an individual on a vessel from an imminent threat of 
    extreme weather.
SEC. 3519. WORKFORCE PLANS AND ONBOARDING POLICIES.
    (a) Workforce Plans.--Not later than 9 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Maritime Administrator shall review the 
Maritime Administration's workforce plans, including its Strategic 
Human Capital Plan and Leadership Succession Plan, and fully implement 
competency models for mission-critical occupations, including--
        (1) leadership positions;
        (2) human resources positions; and
        (3) transportation specialist positions.
    (b) Onboarding Policies.--Not later than 9 months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Maritime Administrator shall--
        (1) review the Maritime Administration's policies related to 
    new hire orientation, training, and misconduct;
        (2) align the onboarding policies and procedures at 
    headquarters and the field offices to ensure consistent 
    implementation and provision of critical information across the 
    Maritime Administration; and
        (3) update the Maritime Administration's training policies and 
    training systems to include controls that ensure that all completed 
    training is tracked in a standardized training repository.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Maritime Administrator shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that describes the 
Maritime Administration's compliance with the requirements under this 
section.
SEC. 3520. DRUG AND ALCOHOL POLICY.
    (a) Review.--Not later than 9 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Maritime Administrator shall--
        (1) review the Maritime Administration's drug and alcohol 
    policies, procedures, and training practices;
        (2) ensure that all fleet managers have received training on 
    the Department of Transportation's drug and alcohol policy, 
    including the testing procedures used by the Department and the 
    Maritime Administration in cases of reasonable suspicion; and
        (3) institute a system for tracking all drug and alcohol policy 
    training conducted under paragraph (2) in a standardized training 
    repository.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Maritime Administrator shall submit a report to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that describes the 
Maritime Administration's compliance with the requirements under this 
section.
SEC. 3521. VESSEL TRANSFERS.
    Not later than 9 months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Maritime Administrator shall submit a report to the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and 
Infrastructure of the House of Representatives that describes the 
Maritime Administration policies and procedures for vessel transfer, 
including--
        (1) a summary of the actions taken to update the Vessel 
    Transfer Office procedures manual to reflect the current range of 
    program responsibilities and processes; and
        (2) a copy of the updated Vessel Transfer Office procedures to 
    process vessel transfer applications.
SEC. 3522. CLARIFYING AMENDMENT; CONTINUATION BOARDS.
    Section 290(a) of title 14, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``five officers serving in the grade of vice admiral'' and 
inserting ``5 officers (other than the Commandant) serving in the grade 
of admiral or vice admiral''.
SEC. 3523. POLAR ICEBREAKER RECAPITALIZATION PLAN.
    (a) Requirement.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in consultation with the 
Secretary of the Navy, shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a detailed recapitalization plan to address the 2013 
Department of Homeland Security Mission Need Statement with respect to 
icebreaking.
    (b) Contents.--The plan required under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) detail the number of heavy and medium polar icebreakers 
    required to meet Coast Guard statutory missions in the polar 
    regions;
        (2) identify the vessel specifications, capabilities, systems, 
    equipment, and other details required for the design of heavy polar 
    icebreakers capable of fulfilling the mission requirements of the 
    Coast Guard and the Navy, and the requirements of other agencies 
    and departments of the United States, as the Secretary determines 
    appropriate;
        (3) list the specific appropriations required for the 
    acquisition of each icebreaker, for each fiscal year, until the 
    full fleet is recapitalized;
        (4) describe the potential savings of serial acquisition for 
    new polar class icebreakers, including specific schedule and 
    acquisition requirements needed to realize such savings;
        (5) describe any polar icebreaking capacity gaps that may arise 
    based on the current fleet and current procurement outlook; and
        (6) describe any additional polar icebreaking capability gaps 
    that may arise due to any further delay in procurement schedules.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the following definitions apply:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means the Committee on Commerce, Science, 
    and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Secretary.--Except as otherwise specifically provided, the 
    term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the department in which 
    the Coast Guard is operating.
SEC. 3524. GAO REPORT ON ICEBREAKING CAPABILITY IN UNITED STATES.
    (a) Requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the 
current state of the United States Federal icebreaking fleet.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
        (1) an analysis of the icebreaking assets in operation in the 
    United States and a description of the missions completed by such 
    assets;
        (2) an analysis of how such assets and the capabilities of such 
    assets are consistent, or inconsistent, with the icebreaking 
    mission requirements described in the 2013 Department of Homeland 
    Security Mission Need Statement, the Naval Operations Concept 2010, 
    and other military and civilian governmental missions in the United 
    States;
        (3) an analysis of the gaps in icebreaking capability of the 
    United States based on the expected service life of the fleet of 
    United States icebreaking assets;
        (4) a list of countries that are allies of the United States 
    that have the icebreaking capacity to exercise missions during any 
    identified gap in United States icebreaking capacity; and
        (5) a description of the policy, financial, and other barriers 
    that have prevented timely recapitalization of the Coast Guard 
    icebreaking fleet and recommendations to overcome such barriers, 
    including potential international fee-based models used to 
    compensate governments for icebreaking escorts or maintenance of 
    maritime routes.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress.--In this section, the term 
``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on 
Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.

           Subtitle B--Pribilof Islands Transition Completion

SEC. 3531. SHORT TITLE.
    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Pribilof Islands Transition 
Completion Amendments Act of 2016''.
SEC. 3532. CONVEYANCE OF PROPERTY.
    (a) Conveyance.--Subsection (a) of section 522 of the Pribilof 
Island Transition Completion Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-120, as 
amended by this Act) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Conveyance.--In partial settlement of land claims under the 
Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), and not 
later than 30 days after the date of enactment of the Pribilof Islands 
Transition Completion Amendments Act of 2016, the Secretary of Commerce 
shall, notwithstanding section 105(a) of the Pribilof Islands 
Transition Act (16 U.S.C. 1161 note; Public Law 106-562), convey to the 
Alaska Native Village Corporation for St. Paul Island all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the following property, 
including improvements on such property:
        ``(1) Lots 4, 5, and 6A, Block 18, Tract A, U.S. Survey 4943, 
    Alaska, the plat of which was Officially Filed on January 20, 2004, 
    aggregating 13,006 square feet (0.30 acres).
        ``(2) T. 35 S., R. 131 W., Seward Meridian, Alaska, Tract 39, 
    the plat of which was Officially Filed on May 14, 1986, containing 
    0.90 acres.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments; Easement.--Section 522 of such Act, as 
amended by subsection (a), is further amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b);
        (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b); and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Easement.--As part of the conveyance under subsection (a), 
the Secretary of Commerce, in cooperation with the Alaska Native 
Village Corporation for St. Paul Island, shall provide an easement to 
the Secretary of Transportation to maintain a non-directional beacon on 
the property described in subsection (a)(2).''.
SEC. 3533. TRANSFER, USE, AND DISPOSAL OF TRACT 43.
    (a) In General.--Section 524 of the Pribilof Island Transition 
Completion Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-120, as amended by this Act) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``SEC. 524. TRANSFER, USE, AND DISPOSAL OF TRACT 43.
    ``(a) Transfer.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Pribilof Islands Transition Completion Amendments Act 
of 2016, the Secretary of Commerce shall--
        ``(1) terminate the license; and
        ``(2) transfer tract 43 to the Secretary of the department in 
    which the Coast Guard is operating.
    ``(b) Determination, Transfer, and Conveyance.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than the end of the 90-day period 
    beginning on the date of the transfer required under subsection 
    (a)(2), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
    Senate a determination of--
            ``(A) lands and improvements in tract 43 that are not 
        necessary to carry out Coast Guard communications and search 
        and rescue activities; and
            ``(B) the smallest practicable tract enclosing lands and 
        improvements in tract 43 that are necessary to carry out such 
        communications and activities.
        ``(2) Surveys, maps, descriptions, and plan.--
            ``(A) Lands and improvements not necessary to coast guard 
        activities.--The determination under paragraph (1)(A) shall 
        include a metes-and-bounds survey, map, and legal description 
        of the lands and improvements to which the determination 
        applies. Such survey, map, and legal description shall have the 
        same force and effect as if included in this section, except 
        that the Secretary may correct clerical and typographical 
        errors in the survey, map, and legal description.
            ``(B) Lands and improvements necessary to coast guard 
        activities.--The determination under paragraph (1)(B) shall 
        include with respect to the lands and improvements to which the 
        determination applies--
                ``(i) a metes-and-bounds survey, map, and legal 
            description of such lands and improvements, which shall 
            have the same force and effect as if included in this 
            section, except that the Secretary may correct clerical and 
            typographical errors in the survey, map, and legal 
            description;
                ``(ii) a description of Coast Guard actual use and 
            occupancy of such lands and improvements intended to occur 
            within 3 years after the date of the enactment of the 
            Pribilof Islands Transition Completion Amendments Act of 
            2016; and
                ``(iii) a plan to maintain existing facilities in 
            useable condition, or demolish or replace those facilities, 
            including a cost estimate for carrying out such plan.
        ``(3) Conveyance.--In partial settlement of land claims under 
    the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), 
    and not later than 60 days after the submission of the 
    determination under paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary shall convey to 
    the Alaska Native Village Corporation for St. Paul Island all 
    right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the land 
    and improvements depicted on the metes-and-bounds survey, map, and 
    legal description of the lands and improvements to which the 
    determination under paragraph (1)(A) applies.
        ``(4) Failure to provide determination.--If a determination 
    under paragraph (1) is not provided within the period specified in 
    that paragraph, in partial settlement of land claims under the 
    Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) the 
    Secretary shall, by not later than 30 days after the end of that 
    period, convey all right, title, and interest of the United States 
    in and to tract 43 to the Alaska Native Village Corporation for St. 
    Paul Island.
        ``(5) Failure to implement use and occupancy.--If the use and 
    occupancy described in paragraph (2)(B)(ii) have not been fully 
    implemented within 5 years after the date of enactment of the 
    Pribilof Islands Transition Completion Amendments Act of 2016, in 
    partial settlement of land claims under the Alaska Native Claims 
    Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) the Secretary shall convey 
    to the Alaska Native Village Corporation for St. Paul Island all 
    right, title, and interest of the United States in and to such 
    portions of the lands and improvements to which the determination 
    under paragraph (1)(B) applies and for which such implementation 
    has not occurred.
    ``(c) Further Determination and Conveyance.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than 5 years after the date of the 
    enactment of the Pribilof Islands Transition Completion Amendments 
    Act of 2016, and not less than once every 5 years thereafter, the 
    Secretary shall--
            ``(A) review the determination made under subsection 
        (b)(1)(B); and
            ``(B) determine if the lands and improvements to which the 
        determination applies are in excess of the smallest practicable 
        tract enclosing the lands and improvements needed to carry out 
        Coast Guard missions.
        ``(2) Report of determination.--When a determination is made 
    under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall report the determination 
    to--
            ``(A) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of 
        the House of Representatives;
            ``(B) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate; and
            ``(C) the Alaska Native Village Corporation for St. Paul 
        Island.
        ``(3) Election to receive.--Not later than 60 days after the 
    date it receives a determination under paragraph (1), the Alaska 
    Native Village Corporation for St. Paul Island shall notify the 
    Secretary in writing whether the Alaska Native Village Corporation 
    elects to receive all right, title, and interest of the United 
    States in and to any lands and improvements or a portion of any 
    lands and improvements determined to be in excess of those needed 
    to carry out Coast Guard missions in partial settlement of land 
    claims under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 
    1601 et seq.).
        ``(4) Conveyance.--If such Alaska Native Village Corporation 
    provides notice under paragraph (3) that the Alaska Native Village 
    Corporation elects to receive all right, title, and interest of the 
    United States in and to any lands and improvements or a portion of 
    any lands and improvements, in partial settlement of land claims 
    under the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et 
    seq.) the Secretary shall convey all right, title, and interest of 
    the United States in and to the lands and improvements or portion 
    thereof to such Alaska Native Village Corporation.
        ``(5) Other disposal.--If such Alaska Native Village 
    Corporation does not provide notice under paragraph (3) that the 
    Alaska Native Village Corporation elects to receive all right, 
    title, and interest of the United States in and to any lands and 
    improvements or a portion of any lands and improvements, the 
    Secretary may dispose of the lands and improvements in accordance 
    with other applicable law.
    ``(d) CERCLA Not Affected.--No transfer or conveyance of property 
under this section shall be construed to affect or limit the 
application of section 120(h) of the Comprehensive Environmental 
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (42 U.S.C. 9620(h)).
    ``(e) Reports.--
        ``(1) Remediation of contaminated soil.--Not later than 2 years 
    after the date of the enactment of the Pribilof Islands Transition 
    Completion Amendments Act of 2016 and not less than once every 2 
    years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on 
    Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the 
    Senate a report on--
            ``(A) efforts taken to remediate contaminated soils on 
        tract 43 and tract 39; and
            ``(B) a schedule for the completion of remediation of 
        contaminated soils on tract 43 and tract 39.
        ``(2) Number of coast guard personnel who carried out coast 
    guard missions.--On the 15th day of each month, the Commandant of 
    the Coast Guard shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and 
    Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
    Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a notice 
    detailing the number of Coast Guard personnel who carried out Coast 
    Guard missions on tract 43 during the previous month and what Coast 
    Guard missions were carried out by such personnel.
    ``(f) Redundant Capability.--
        ``(1) Rule of construction.--Except as provided in paragraph 
    (2), section 681 of title 14, United States Code, shall not be 
    construed to prohibit any conveyance of lands or improvements under 
    this subtitle or any actions that involve the dismantling or 
    disposal of infrastructure that supported the former LORAN system 
    that are associated with the conveyance of lands or improvements 
    under this subtitle.
        ``(2) Redundant capability.--If, within the 5-year period 
    beginning on the date of the enactment of the Pribilof Islands 
    Transition Completion Amendments Act of 2016, the Secretary 
    determines that communication equipment, including towers, 
    antennae, and transmitters, on property conveyed in accordance with 
    this subtitle is subsequently required to provide a positioning, 
    navigation, and timing system to provide redundant capability in 
    the event GPS signals are disrupted, the Secretary may--
            ``(A) operate, maintain, keep, locate, inspect, repair, and 
        replace such equipment; and
            ``(B) in carrying out the activities described in 
        subparagraph (A), enter, at any time, a facility without 
        notice, to the extent that it is not possible to provide 
        advance notice, for as long as such equipment is needed to 
        provide such capability.
    ``(g) Federal Use.--In addition to entry under subsection 
(f)(2)(B), the Secretary may enter property conveyed in accordance with 
this subtitle for purposes of environmental compliance and remediation 
after providing advance notice to the property owner to the extent that 
it is possible to provide such notice.
    ``(h) High Frequency Communications.--
        ``(1) Restriction.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), on 
    property contained within the boundaries of tract 43 as in effect 
    on the date of enactment of the Pribilof Islands Transition 
    Completion Amendments Act of 2016, no person may operate or 
    maintain--
            ``(A) radio frequency transmitting equipment that produces 
        a signal that exceeds 5 microvolts per meter field intensity, 
        other than such equipment that was in use on the site before 
        the date of the enactment of such Act; or
            ``(B) electric welding equipment, electric generating 
        equipment, a diathermy machine, electric motors of any kind 
        having greater than 5 horsepower, or any other machinery, 
        engine, or equipment that causes any electromagnetic 
        interference.
        ``(2) Exception.--A person may engage in operations or 
    maintenance otherwise prohibited by paragraph (1) with the 
    concurrence of the Secretary.
    ``(i) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
        ``(1) License.--The term `license' means the agreement dated 
    January 9, 2006, entitled `License Agreement Between The Department 
    of Homeland Security, United States Coast Guard, and The Department 
    of Commerce, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration'.
        ``(2) Tract 39.--The term `tract 39' means T. 35 S., R. 131 W., 
    Seward Meridian, Alaska, Tract 39, the plat of which was Officially 
    Filed on May 14, 1986, containing 0.90 acres.
        ``(3) Tract 43.--The term `tract 43' means T. 35 S., R. 131 W., 
    Seward Meridian, Alaska, Tract 43, the plat of which was Officially 
    Filed on May 14, 1986, containing 84.88 acres, and any improvements 
    on such tract.
        ``(4) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary of 
    the department in which the Coast Guard is operating.''.
    (b) Chargeability for Lands Conveyed.--The Secretary of the 
Interior shall charge against the remaining entitlement of the Alaska 
Native Village Corporation for St. Paul Island under the Alaska Native 
Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) any conveyance of land 
to such corporation under this subtitle, including the amendments made 
by this subtitle.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents in section 2 of the 
Coast Guard Authorization Act of 2016 (Public Law 114-120, as amended 
by this Act) is amended by striking the item relating to section 524 
and inserting the following:

``Sec. 524. Transfer, use, and disposal of tract 43.''.

    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Section 105 of the Pribilof Islands 
Transition Act (16 U.S.C. 1161 note; Public Law 106-562) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``or section 522 of the 
    Pribilof Island Transition Completion Act of 2015'' and inserting 
    ``or section 522 of the Pribilof Island Transition Completion Act 
    of 2016, or transferred to the Secretary of the department in which 
    the Coast Guard is operating under section 524 of such Act,''; and
        (2) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``and not transferred'' 
    and inserting ``and not transferred to the Secretary of the 
    department in which the Coast Guard is operating under section 524 
    of the Pribilof Island Transition Completion Act of 2016 or''.
    (e) Savings Clause.--The Memorandum of Understanding among the 
Tanadgusix Corporation, St. Paul Island, Alaska, the Tanaq Corporation, 
St. George Island, Alaska, and the National Marine Fisheries Service of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration of the Department 
of Commerce, dated December 22, 1976, regarding Pribilof Islands Land 
Selections and the establishment and operation of a Joint Management 
Board, shall remain in effect with respect to land selections and 
conveyances until all obligations for conveyances under that agreement 
have been met, and the obligation to maintain a Joint Management Board 
remains in effect.

 Subtitle C--Sexual Harassment and Assault Prevention at the National 
                 Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration

SEC. 3541. ACTIONS TO ADDRESS SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT NATIONAL OCEANIC AND 
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Required Policy.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall, acting through 
the Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, develop a policy on the 
prevention of and response to sexual harassment involving employees of 
the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, members of the 
commissioned officer corps of the Administration, and individuals who 
work with or conduct business on behalf of the Administration.
    (b) Matters to Be Specified in Policy.--The policy developed under 
subsection (a) shall include--
        (1) establishment of a program to promote awareness of the 
    incidence of sexual harassment;
        (2) clear procedures an individual should follow in the case of 
    an occurrence of sexual harassment, including--
            (A) a specification of the person or persons to whom an 
        alleged occurrence of sexual harassment should be reported by 
        an individual and options for confidential reporting, 
        including--
                (i) options and contact information for after-hours 
            contact; and
                (ii) a procedure for obtaining assistance and reporting 
            sexual harassment while working in a remote scientific 
            field camp, at sea, or in another field status; and
            (B) a specification of any other person whom the victim 
        should contact;
        (3) establishment of a mechanism by which--
            (A) questions regarding sexual harassment can be 
        confidentially asked and confidentially answered; and
            (B) incidents of sexual harassment can be confidentially 
        reported; and
        (4) a prohibition on retaliation and consequences for 
    retaliatory actions.
    (c) Consultation and Assistance.--In developing the policy required 
by subsection (a), the Secretary may consult or receive assistance from 
such State, local, and national organizations and subject matter 
experts as the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (d) Availability of Policy.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
policy developed under subsection (a) is available to--
        (1) all employees of the Administration and members of the 
    commissioned officer corps of the Administration, including those 
    employees and members who conduct field work for the 
    Administration; and
        (2) the public.
    (e) Geographic Distribution of Equal Employment Opportunity 
Personnel.--The Secretary shall designate out of existing staff at 
least 1 employee of the Administration who is tasked with handling 
matters relating to equal employment opportunity or sexual harassment 
at each marine and aviation center of the Administration.
    (f) Quarterly Reports.--
        (1) In general.--Not less frequently than 4 times each year, 
    the Director of the Civil Rights Office of the Administration shall 
    submit to the Under Secretary a report on sexual harassment in the 
    Administration.
        (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The number of sexual harassment cases, both actionable 
        and non-actionable, involving individuals covered by the policy 
        developed under subsection (a).
            (B) The number of open actionable sexual harassment cases 
        and how long the cases have been open.
            (C) Such trends or region-specific issues as the Director 
        may have discovered with respect to sexual harassment in the 
        Administration.
            (D) Such recommendations as the Director may have with 
        respect to sexual harassment in the Administration.
SEC. 3542. ACTIONS TO ADDRESS SEXUAL ASSAULT AT NATIONAL OCEANIC AND 
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Comprehensive Policy on Prevention of and Response to Sexual 
Assaults.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall, acting through the Under 
Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere, develop a comprehensive policy on 
the prevention of and response to sexual assaults involving employees 
of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, members of the 
commissioned officer corps of the Administration, and individuals who 
work with or conduct business on behalf of the Administration.
    (b) Elements of Comprehensive Policy.--The comprehensive policy 
developed under subsection (a) shall, at minimum, address the following 
matters:
        (1) Prevention measures.
        (2) Education and training on prevention and response.
        (3) A list of support resources an individual may use in the 
    occurrence of sexual assault, including--
            (A) options and contact information for after-hours 
        contact; and
            (B) a procedure for obtaining assistance and reporting 
        sexual assault while working in a remote scientific field camp, 
        at sea, or in another field status.
        (4) Easy and ready availability of information described in 
    paragraph (3).
        (5) Establishing a mechanism by which--
            (A) questions regarding sexual assault can be 
        confidentially asked and confidentially answered; and
            (B) incidents of sexual assault can be confidentially 
        reported.
        (6) Protocols for the investigation of complaints by command 
    and law enforcement personnel.
        (7) Prohibiting retaliation and consequences for retaliatory 
    actions against someone who reports a sexual assault.
        (8) Oversight by the Under Secretary of administrative and 
    disciplinary actions in response to substantiated incidents of 
    sexual assault.
        (9) Victim advocacy, including establishment of and the 
    responsibilities and training requirements for victim advocates as 
    described in subsection (c).
        (10) Availability of resources for victims of sexual assault 
    within other Federal agencies and State, local, and national 
    organizations.
    (c) Victim Advocacy.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the Under 
    Secretary, shall establish victim advocates to advocate for victims 
    of sexual assaults involving employees of the Administration, 
    members of the commissioned officer corps of the Administration, 
    and individuals who work with or conduct business on behalf of the 
    Administration.
        (2) Victim advocates.--For purposes of this subsection, a 
    victim advocate is an existing permanent employee of the 
    Administration who--
            (A) is trained in matters relating to sexual assault and 
        the comprehensive policy developed under subsection (a); and
            (B) serves as a victim advocate voluntarily and in addition 
        to the employee's other duties as an employee of the 
        Administration.
        (3) Primary duties.--The primary duties of a victim advocate 
    established under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            (A) Supporting victims of sexual assault and informing them 
        of their rights and the resources available to them as victims.
            (B) Acting as a companion in navigating investigative, 
        medical, mental and emotional health, and recovery processes 
        relating to sexual assault.
            (C) Helping to identify resources to ensure the safety of 
        victims of sexual assault.
        (4) Location.--The Secretary shall ensure that at least 1 
    victim advocate established under paragraph (1) is stationed--
            (A) in each region in which the Administration conducts 
        operations; and
            (B) in each marine and aviation center of the 
        Administration.
        (5) Hotline.--
            (A) In general.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall provide a telephone number at which a victim of 
        a sexual assault can contact a victim advocate.
            (B) 24-hour access.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
        telephone number established under subparagraph (A) is 
        monitored at all times.
            (C) Partnership.--The Secretary shall, where possible, use 
        established hotlines for purposes of this paragraph.
        (6) Formal relationships with other entities.--The Secretary 
    may enter into formal relationships with other entities to make 
    available additional victim advocates.
    (d) Availability of Policy.--The Secretary shall ensure that the 
policy developed under subsection (a) is available to--
        (1) all employees of the Administration and members of the 
    commissioned officer corps of the Administration, including those 
    employees and members who conduct field work for the 
    Administration; and
        (2) the public.
    (e) Consultation and Assistance.--In developing the policy required 
by subsection (a), the Secretary may consult or receive assistance from 
such State, local, and national organizations and subject matter 
experts as the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 3543. RIGHTS OF THE VICTIM OF A SEXUAL ASSAULT.
    A victim of a sexual assault covered by the comprehensive policy 
developed under section 3542(a) has the right to be reasonably 
protected from the accused.
SEC. 3544. CHANGE OF STATION.
    (a) Change of Station, Unit Transfer, or Change of Work Location of 
Victims.--
        (1) Timely consideration and action upon request.--The 
    Secretary of Commerce, acting through the Under Secretary for 
    Oceans and Atmosphere, shall--
            (A) in the case of a member of the commissioned officer 
        corps of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
        who was a victim of a sexual assault, in order to reduce the 
        possibility of retaliation or further sexual assault, provide 
        for timely determination and action on an application submitted 
        by the victim for consideration of a change of station or unit 
        transfer of the victim; and
            (B) in the case of an employee of the Administration who 
        was a victim of a sexual assault, to the degree practicable and 
        in order to reduce the possibility of retaliation against the 
        employee for reporting the sexual assault, accommodate a 
        request for a change of work location of the victim.
        (2) Procedures.--
            (A) Period for approval and disapproval.--The Secretary, 
        acting through the Under Secretary, shall ensure that an 
        application or request submitted under paragraph (1) for a 
        change of station, unit transfer, or change of work location is 
        approved or denied within 72 hours of the submission of the 
        application or request.
            (B) Review.--If an application or request submitted under 
        paragraph (1) by a victim of a sexual assault for a change of 
        station, unit transfer, or change of work location of the 
        victim is denied--
                (i) the victim may request the Secretary to review the 
            denial; and
                (ii) the Secretary, acting through the Under Secretary, 
            shall, not later than 72 hours after receiving such 
            request, affirm or overturn the denial.
    (b) Change of Station, Unit Transfer, and Change of Work Location 
of Alleged Perpetrators.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the Under 
    Secretary, shall develop a policy for the protection of victims of 
    sexual assault described in subsection (a)(1) by providing the 
    alleged perpetrator of the sexual assault with a change of station, 
    unit transfer, or change of work location, as the case may be, if 
    the alleged perpetrator is a member of the commissioned officer 
    corps of the Administration or an employee of the Administration.
        (2) Policy requirements.--The policy required by paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) A means to control access to the victim.
            (B) Due process for the victim and the alleged perpetrator.
    (c) Regulations.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall promulgate regulations to 
    carry out this section.
        (2) Consistency.--When practicable, the Secretary shall make 
    regulations promulgated under this section consistent with similar 
    regulations promulgated by the Secretary of Defense.
SEC. 3545. APPLICABILITY OF POLICIES TO CREWS OF VESSELS SECURED BY 
NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION UNDER CONTRACT.
    The Under Secretary for Oceans and Atmosphere shall ensure that 
each contract into which the Under Secretary enters for the use of a 
vessel by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration that 
covers the crew of the vessel, if any, shall include as a condition of 
the contract a provision that subjects such crew to the policy 
developed under section 3541(a) and the comprehensive policy developed 
under section 3542(a).
SEC. 3546. ANNUAL REPORT ON SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN THE NATIONAL OCEANIC AND 
ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) In General.--Not later than January 15 of each year, the 
Secretary of Commerce shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives a report on the sexual 
assaults involving employees of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
Administration, members of the commissioned officer corps of the 
Administration, and individuals who work with or conduct business on 
behalf of the Administration.
    (b) Contents.--Each report submitted under subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to the previous calendar year, the following:
        (1) The number of alleged sexual assaults involving employees, 
    members, and individuals described in subsection (a).
        (2) A synopsis of each case and the disciplinary action taken, 
    if any, in each case.
        (3) The policies, procedures, and processes implemented by the 
    Secretary, and any updates or revisions to such policies, 
    procedures, and processes.
        (4) A summary of the reports received by the Under Secretary 
    for Oceans and Atmosphere under section 3541(f).
    (c) Privacy Protection.--In preparing and submitting a report under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall ensure that no individual involved 
in an alleged sexual assault can be identified by the contents of the 
report.
SEC. 3547. SEXUAL ASSAULT DEFINED.
    In this subtitle, the term ``sexual assault'' shall have the 
meaning given such term in section 40002(a) of the Violence Against 
Women Act of 1994 (42 U.S.C. 13925(a)).

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4103. Procurement for overseas contingency operations for base 
          requirements.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.
Sec. 4203. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations for base requirements.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency operations 
          for base requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4403. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations for 
          base requirements.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4503. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations for 
          base requirements.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.
Sec. 4602. Military construction for overseas contingency operations.
Sec. 4603. Military construction for overseas contingency operations for 
          base requirements.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.
    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-Based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
        (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance 
    with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, 
    United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
        (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in 
this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
      Line                 Item             Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
001               UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT.          57,529          57,529
003               MQ-1 UAV.............          55,388          55,388
                  ROTARY
006               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK            803,084         803,084
                   IIIA REMAN.
007                  ADVANCE                    185,160         185,160
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M             755,146         755,146
                   MODEL (MYP).
009                  ADVANCE                    174,107         174,107
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
010               UH-60 BLACK HAWK A             46,173          46,173
                   AND L MODELS.
011               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....         556,257         556,257
012                  ADVANCE                      8,707           8,707
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
013               MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)...          43,735          43,735
015               MULTI SENSOR ABN               94,527          94,527
                   RECON (MIP).
016               AH-64 MODS...........         137,883         137,883
017               CH-47 CARGO                   102,943         102,943
                   HELICOPTER MODS
                   (MYP).
018               GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP).           4,055           4,055
019               ARL SEMA MODS (MIP)..           6,793           6,793
020               EMARSS SEMA MODS               13,197          13,197
                   (MIP).
021               UTILITY/CARGO                  17,526          17,526
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
022               UTILITY HELICOPTER             10,807          10,807
                   MODS.
023               NETWORK AND MISSION            74,752          74,752
                   PLAN.
024               COMMS, NAV                     69,960          69,960
                   SURVEILLANCE.
025               GATM ROLLUP..........          45,302          45,302
026               RQ-7 UAV MODS........          71,169          71,169
027               UAS MODS.............          21,804          21,804
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
028               AIRCRAFT                       67,377          67,377
                   SURVIVABILITY
                   EQUIPMENT.
029               SURVIVABILITY CM.....           9,565           9,565
030               CMWS.................          41,626          41,626
                  OTHER SUPPORT
032               AVIONICS SUPPORT                7,007           7,007
                   EQUIPMENT.
033               COMMON GROUND                  48,234          48,234
                   EQUIPMENT.
034               AIRCREW INTEGRATED             30,297          30,297
                   SYSTEMS.
035               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL..          50,405          50,405
036               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES           1,217           1,217
037               LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET           3,055           3,055
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT         3,614,787       3,614,787
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
001               LOWER TIER AIR AND            126,470         126,470
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   (AMD).
002               MSE MISSILE..........         423,201         423,201
003                  ADVANCE                     19,319          19,319
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
004               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.          42,013          42,013
005               JOINT AIR-TO-GROUND            64,751          64,751
                   MSLS (JAGM).
006                  ADVANCE                     37,100          37,100
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
007               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)               73,508          72,904
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
                      Engineering                                 [-604]
                      services cost
                      growth.
008               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          64,922          64,922
009                  ADVANCE                     19,949          10,716
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      Advance                                   [-9,233]
                      procurement cost
                      growth.
010               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            172,088         172,088
                   (GMLRS).
011               MLRS REDUCED RANGE             18,004          18,004
                   PRACTICE ROCKETS
                   (RRPR).
                  MODIFICATIONS
013               PATRIOT MODS.........         197,107         197,107
014               ATACMS MODS..........         150,043         150,043
015               GMLRS MOD............             395             395
017               AVENGER MODS.........          33,606          33,606
018               ITAS/TOW MODS........             383             383
019               MLRS MODS............          34,704          34,704
020               HIMARS MODIFICATIONS.           1,847           1,847
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
021               SPARES AND REPAIR              34,487          34,487
                   PARTS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
022               AIR DEFENSE TARGETS..           4,915           4,915
024               PRODUCTION BASE                 1,154           1,154
                   SUPPORT.
                       TOTAL MISSILE          1,519,966       1,510,129
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               STRYKER VEHICLE......          71,680          71,680
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
002               STRYKER (MOD)........          74,348          74,348
003               STRYKER UPGRADE......         444,561         433,561
                      Early to need....                        [-11,000]
005               BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)         276,433         273,333
                      Excess program                            [-3,100]
                      management growth.
006               HOWITZER, MED SP FT            63,138          63,138
                   155MM M109A6 (MOD).
007               PALADIN INTEGRATED            469,305         469,305
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
008               IMPROVED RECOVERY              91,963          91,963
                   VEHICLE (M88A2
                   HERCULES).
009               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           3,465           3,465
010               ASSAULT BREACHER                2,928           2,928
                   VEHICLE.
011               M88 FOV MODS.........           8,685           8,685
012               JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE.          64,752          64,752
013               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).         480,166         480,166
014               ABRAMS UPGRADE                                100,000
                   PROGRAM.
                      Realign APS Unit                         [100,000]
                      Set Requirements
                      from OCO.
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
016               INTEGRATED AIR BURST            9,764           9,764
                   WEAPON SYSTEM FAMILY.
017               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......           8,332           8,332
018               XM320 GRENADE                   3,062           3,062
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
019               COMPACT SEMI-                     992             992
                   AUTOMATIC SNIPER
                   SYSTEM.
020               CARBINE..............          40,493          40,493
021               COMMON REMOTELY                25,164          25,164
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
022               MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE           4,959           4,959
                   GUN MODS.
023               M777 MODS............          11,913          11,913
024               M4 CARBINE MODS......          29,752          29,752
025               M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN          48,582          48,582
                   MODS.
026               M249 SAW MACHINE GUN            1,179           1,179
                   MODS.
027               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             1,784           1,784
                   GUN MODS.
028               SNIPER RIFLES                     971             971
                   MODIFICATIONS.
029               M119 MODIFICATIONS...           6,045           6,045
030               MORTAR MODIFICATION..          12,118          12,118
031               MODIFICATIONS LESS              3,157           3,157
                   THAN $5.0M (WOCV-
                   WTCV).
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
032               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,331           2,331
                   (WOCV-WTCV).
035               SMALL ARMS EQUIPMENT            3,155           3,155
                   (SOLDIER ENH PROG).
                       TOTAL                  2,265,177       2,351,077
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL               40,296          40,296
                   TYPES.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL               39,237          39,237
                   TYPES.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL               5,193           5,193
                   TYPES.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL              46,693          46,693
                   TYPES.
005               CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES.           7,000           7,000
006               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.           7,753           6,453
                      Program reduction                         [-1,300]
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          47,000          47,000
008               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.         118,178         111,824
                      Early to need....                         [-6,354]
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL               69,784          69,784
                   TYPES.
010               81MM MORTAR, ALL               36,125          36,125
                   TYPES.
011               120MM MORTAR, ALL              69,133          69,133
                   TYPES.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,             120,668         117,868
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      Early to need....                         [-2,800]
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
013               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          64,800          61,300
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      75mm blanks early                         [-3,500]
                      to need.
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,         109,515         109,515
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            39,200          39,200
                   RANGE M982.
016               ARTILLERY                      70,881          70,881
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                  ROCKETS
019               SHOULDER LAUNCHED              38,000          38,000
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL          87,213          87,213
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
021               CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES...           4,914           4,914
022               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           6,380           6,380
                   ALL TYPES.
023               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..          22,760          22,760
024               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...          10,666          10,666
025               SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES           7,412           7,412
                  MISCELLANEOUS
026               AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL           12,726          12,726
                   TYPES.
027               NON-LETHAL                      6,100           5,900
                   AMMUNITION, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      Early to need....                           [-200]
028               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             10,006           9,506
                   MILLION (AMMO).
                      Early to need....                           [-500]
029               AMMUNITION PECULIAR            17,275          13,575
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Early to need....                         [-3,700]
030               FIRST DESTINATION              14,951          14,951
                   TRANSPORTATION
                   (AMMO).
                  PRODUCTION BASE
                   SUPPORT
032               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES         222,269         242,269
                      Program increase.                         [20,000]
033               CONVENTIONAL                  157,383         157,383
                   MUNITIONS
                   DEMILITARIZATION.
034               ARMS INITIATIVE......           3,646           3,646
                       TOTAL                  1,513,157       1,514,803
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
001               TACTICAL TRAILERS/              3,733           3,733
                   DOLLY SETS.
002               SEMITRAILERS,                   3,716           3,716
                   FLATBED:.
003               HI MOB MULTI-PURP                              50,000
                   WHLD VEH (HMMWV).
                      HMMWV M997A3                              [50,000]
                      ambulance
                      recapitalization
                      for Active
                      Component.
004               GROUND MOBILITY                 4,907           4,907
                   VEHICLES (GMV).
006               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          587,514         587,514
                   VEHICLE.
007               TRUCK, DUMP, 20T                3,927           3,927
                   (CCE).
008               FAMILY OF MEDIUM               53,293          53,293
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
009               FIRETRUCKS &                    7,460           7,460
                   ASSOCIATED
                   FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.
010               FAMILY OF HEAVY                39,564          39,564
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
011               PLS ESP..............          11,856          11,856
013               TACTICAL WHEELED               49,751          49,751
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
014               MODIFICATION OF IN             64,000          54,000
                   SVC EQUIP.
                      Program reduction                        [-10,000]
015               MINE-RESISTANT AMBUSH-         10,611          10,611
                   PROTECTED (MRAP)
                   MODS.
                  NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
016               HEAVY ARMORED SEDAN..             394             394
018               NONTACTICAL VEHICLES,           1,755           1,755
                   OTHER.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
019               WIN-T--GROUND FORCES          427,598         427,598
                   TACTICAL NETWORK.
020               SIGNAL MODERNIZATION           58,250          58,250
                   PROGRAM.
021               JOINT INCIDENT SITE             5,749           5,749
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   CAPABILITY.
022               JCSE EQUIPMENT                  5,068           5,068
                   (USREDCOM).
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
023               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE            143,805         143,805
                   WIDEBAND SATCOM
                   SYSTEMS.
024               TRANSPORTABLE                  36,580          36,580
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
025               SHF TERM.............           1,985           1,985
027               SMART-T (SPACE)......           9,165           9,165
                  COMM--C3 SYSTEM
031               ARMY GLOBAL CMD &               2,530           2,530
                   CONTROL SYS (AGCCS).
                  COMM--COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
033               HANDHELD MANPACK              273,645         273,645
                   SMALL FORM FIT (HMS).
034               MID-TIER NETWORKING            25,017          25,017
                   VEHICULAR RADIO
                   (MNVR).
035               RADIO TERMINAL SET,            12,326          12,326
                   MIDS LVT(2).
037               TRACTOR DESK.........           2,034           2,034
038               TRACTOR RIDE.........           2,334           2,334
039               SPIDER APLA REMOTE              1,985           1,985
                   CONTROL UNIT.
040               SPIDER FAMILY OF               10,796          10,796
                   NETWORKED MUNITIONS
                   INCR.
042               TACTICAL                        3,607           3,607
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND
                   PROTECTIVE SYSTEM.
043               UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE          14,295          14,295
045               FAMILY OF MED COMM             19,893          19,893
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
047               CI AUTOMATION                   1,388           1,388
                   ARCHITECTURE.
048               ARMY CA/MISO GPF                5,494           5,494
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
049               FAMILY OF BIOMETRICS.           2,978           2,978
051               COMMUNICATIONS                131,356         131,356
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
052               DEFENSIVE CYBER                15,132          15,132
                   OPERATIONS.
                  COMM--LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
053               BASE SUPPORT                   27,452          27,452
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
054               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..         122,055         122,055
055               EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT            4,286           4,286
                   MODERNIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
056               INSTALLATION INFO             131,794         131,794
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
059               JTT/CIBS-M...........           5,337           5,337
062               DCGS-A (MIP).........         242,514         217,814
                      Program reduction                        [-24,700]
063               JOINT TACTICAL GROUND           4,417           4,417
                   STATION (JTAGS).
064               TROJAN (MIP).........          17,455          17,455
065               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            44,965          44,965
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
066               CI HUMINT AUTO                  7,658           7,658
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
067               CLOSE ACCESS TARGET             7,970           7,970
                   RECONNAISSANCE
                   (CATR).
068               MACHINE FOREIGN                   545             545
                   LANGUAGE TRANSLATION
                   SYSTEM-M.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
070               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER            74,038          68,453
                   MORTAR RADAR.
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-5,585]
071               EW PLANNING &                   3,235           3,235
                   MANAGEMENT TOOLS
                   (EWPMT).
072               AIR VIGILANCE (AV)...             733             733
074               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT            1,740           1,740
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   CAPABILITIE.
075               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/              455             455
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
076               CI MODERNIZATION.....             176             176
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
077               SENTINEL MODS........          40,171          40,171
078               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.         163,029         163,029
079               SMALL TACTICAL                 15,885          15,885
                   OPTICAL RIFLE
                   MOUNTED MLRF.
080               INDIRECT FIRE                  48,427          48,427
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
081               FAMILY OF WEAPON               55,536          55,536
                   SIGHTS (FWS).
082               ARTILLERY ACCURACY              4,187           4,187
                   EQUIP.
085               JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--        137,501         137,501
                   PLATFORM (JBC-P).
086               JOINT EFFECTS                  50,726          50,726
                   TARGETING SYSTEM
                   (JETS).
087               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            28,058          28,058
                   (LLDR).
088               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:            5,924           5,924
                   LHMBC XM32.
089               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            22,331          22,331
                   SYSTEM.
090               COUNTERFIRE RADARS...         314,509         281,509
                      Unit cost savings                        [-33,000]
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
091               FIRE SUPPORT C2                 8,660           8,660
                   FAMILY.
092               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              54,376          54,376
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
093               IAMD BATTLE COMMAND           204,969         204,969
                   SYSTEM.
094               LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE             4,718           4,718
                   SUPPORT (LCSS).
095               NETWORK MANAGEMENT             11,063          11,063
                   INITIALIZATION AND
                   SERVICE.
096               MANEUVER CONTROL              151,318         151,318
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
097               GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT         155,660         155,660
                   SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A).
098               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL            4,214           4,214
                   AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                   (IPP.
099               RECONNAISSANCE AND             16,185          16,185
                   SURVEYING INSTRUMENT
                   SET.
100               MOD OF IN-SVC                   1,565           1,565
                   EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
101               ARMY TRAINING                  17,693          17,693
                   MODERNIZATION.
102               AUTOMATED DATA                107,960         107,960
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
103               GENERAL FUND                    6,416           6,416
                   ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
                   SYSTEMS FAM.
104               HIGH PERF COMPUTING            58,614          58,614
                   MOD PGM (HPCMP).
105               CONTRACT WRITING                  986             986
                   SYSTEM.
106               RESERVE COMPONENT              23,828          23,828
                   AUTOMATION SYS
                   (RCAS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
107               TACTICAL DIGITAL                1,191           1,191
                   MEDIA.
108               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             1,995           1,995
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                  ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
109               PRODUCTION BASE                   403             403
                   SUPPORT (C-E).
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
110A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           4,436           4,436
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
111               PROTECTIVE SYSTEMS...           2,966           2,966
112               FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL            9,795           9,795
                   EQUIPMENT (FNLE).
114               CBRN DEFENSE.........          17,922          17,922
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
115               TACTICAL BRIDGING....          13,553          13,553
116               TACTICAL BRIDGE,               25,244          25,244
                   FLOAT-RIBBON.
117               BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL               983             983
                   SET.
118               COMMON BRIDGE                  25,176          25,176
                   TRANSPORTER (CBT)
                   RECAP.
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
119               GRND STANDOFF MINE             39,350          39,350
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
120               AREA MINE DETECTION            10,500          10,500
                   SYSTEM (AMDS).
121               HUSKY MOUNTED                     274             274
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
122               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  2,951           2,951
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
123               EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS            1,949           1,949
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
124               ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE           5,203           5,203
                   SYSTEMS.
125               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              5,570           5,570
                   DISPOSAL EQPMT (EOD
                   EQPMT).
126               REMOTE DEMOLITION               6,238           6,238
                   SYSTEMS.
127               < $5M, COUNTERMINE                836             836
                   EQUIPMENT.
128               FAMILY OF BOATS AND             3,171           3,171
                   MOTORS.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
129               HEATERS AND ECU'S....          18,707          18,707
130               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT..           2,112           2,112
131               PERSONNEL RECOVERY             10,856          10,856
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
132               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM          32,419          32,419
133               MOBILE SOLDIER POWER.          30,014          30,014
135               FIELD FEEDING                  12,544          12,544
                   EQUIPMENT.
136               CARGO AERIAL DEL &             18,509          18,509
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
137               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT          29,384          29,384
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
139               QUALITY SURVEILLANCE            4,487           4,487
                   EQUIPMENT.
140               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          42,656          35,656
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                      Program decrease.                         [-7,000]
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
141               COMBAT SUPPORT                 59,761          59,761
                   MEDICAL.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
142               MOBILE MAINTENANCE             35,694          32,194
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
                      Program reduction                         [-3,500]
143               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,716           2,716
                   (MAINT EQ).
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
144               GRADER, ROAD MTZD,              1,742           1,742
                   HVY, 6X4 (CCE).
145               SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING          26,233          26,233
147               HYDRAULIC EXCAVATOR..           1,123           1,123
149               ALL TERRAIN CRANES...          65,285          65,285
151               HIGH MOBILITY                   1,743           1,743
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
152               ENHANCED RAPID                  2,779           2,779
                   AIRFIELD
                   CONSTRUCTION CAPAP.
154               CONST EQUIP ESP......          26,712          22,212
                      Program reduction                         [-4,500]
155               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           6,649           6,649
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                  RAIL FLOAT
                   CONTAINERIZATION
                   EQUIPMENT
156               ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP..          21,860          21,860
157               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           1,967           1,967
                   (FLOAT/RAIL).
                  GENERATORS
158               GENERATORS AND                113,266         113,266
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
159               TACTICAL ELECTRIC               7,867           7,867
                   POWER
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
160               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..           2,307           2,307
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
161               COMBAT TRAINING                75,359          75,359
                   CENTERS SUPPORT.
162               TRAINING DEVICES,             253,050         253,050
                   NONSYSTEM.
163               CLOSE COMBAT TACTICAL          48,271          48,271
                   TRAINER.
164               AVIATION COMBINED              40,000          40,000
                   ARMS TACTICAL
                   TRAINER.
165               GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN           11,543          11,543
                   SUPPORT OF ARMY
                   TRAINING.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
166               CALIBRATION SETS                4,963           4,963
                   EQUIPMENT.
167               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF           29,781          29,781
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
168               TEST EQUIPMENT                  6,342           6,342
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
169               M25 STABILIZED                  3,149           3,149
                   BINOCULAR.
170               RAPID EQUIPPING                18,003          18,003
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
171               PHYSICAL SECURITY              44,082          44,082
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
172               BASE LEVEL COMMON               2,168           2,168
                   EQUIPMENT.
173               MODIFICATION OF IN-            67,367          67,367
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
174               PRODUCTION BASE                 1,528           1,528
                   SUPPORT (OTH).
175               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR           8,289           8,289
                   USER TESTING.
177               TRACTOR YARD.........           6,888           6,888
                  OPA2
179               INITIAL SPARES--C&E..          27,243          27,243
                       TOTAL OTHER            5,873,949       5,835,664
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
003               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER          890,650         890,650
                   CV.
004                  ADVANCE                     80,908          80,908
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
005               JSF STOVL............       2,037,768       2,037,768
006                  ADVANCE                    233,648         233,648
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
007               CH-53K (HEAVY LIFT)..         348,615         348,615
008                  ADVANCE                     88,365          88,365
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
009               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...       1,264,134       1,249,134
                      Support cost                             [-15,000]
                      growth.
010                  ADVANCE                     19,674          19,674
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
011               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/          759,778         756,586
                   AH-1Z).
                      Airframe unit                             [-3,192]
                      cost growth.
012                  ADVANCE                     57,232          57,232
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
014               MH-60R (MYP).........          61,177          53,177
                      Line shutdown                             [-8,000]
                      costs--early to
                      need.
016               P-8A POSEIDON........       1,940,238       1,863,238
                      Airfrane unit                            [-77,000]
                      cost growth.
017                  ADVANCE                    123,140         123,140
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
018               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         916,483         916,483
019                  ADVANCE                    125,042         125,042
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
020               JPATS................           5,849           5,849
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
021               KC-130J..............         128,870         128,870
022                  ADVANCE                     24,848          24,848
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
023               MQ-4 TRITON..........         409,005         396,125
                      Unit cost savings                        [-12,880]
024                  ADVANCE                     55,652          55,652
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
025               MQ-8 UAV.............          72,435          72,435
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
029               AEA SYSTEMS..........          51,900          51,900
030               AV-8 SERIES..........          60,818          60,818
031               ADVERSARY............           5,191           5,191
032               F-18 SERIES..........       1,023,492         986,192
                      Unobligated                              [-37,300]
                      balances.
034               H-53 SERIES..........          46,095          46,095
035               SH-60 SERIES.........         108,328         108,328
036               H-1 SERIES...........          46,333          46,333
037               EP-3 SERIES..........          14,681          14,681
038               P-3 SERIES...........           2,781           2,781
039               E-2 SERIES...........          32,949          32,949
040               TRAINER A/C SERIES...          13,199          13,199
041               C-2A.................          19,066          19,066
042               C-130 SERIES.........          61,788          59,788
                      Training                                  [-2,000]
                      equipment
                      unjustified
                      growth (OSIP 022-
                      07).
043               FEWSG................             618             618
044               CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C             9,822           9,822
                   SERIES.
045               E-6 SERIES...........         222,077         222,077
046               EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS          66,835          66,835
                   SERIES.
047               SPECIAL PROJECT                16,497          16,497
                   AIRCRAFT.
048               T-45 SERIES..........         114,887         114,887
049               POWER PLANT CHANGES..          16,893          14,893
                      Excess support                            [-2,000]
                      growth.
050               JPATS SERIES.........          17,401          17,401
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.         143,773         143,773
052               COMMON AVIONICS               164,839         164,839
                   CHANGES.
053               COMMON DEFENSIVE                4,403           4,403
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
054               ID SYSTEMS...........          45,768          45,768
055               P-8 SERIES...........          18,836          18,836
056               MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION           5,676           5,676
057               MQ-8 SERIES..........          19,003          19,003
058               RQ-7 SERIES..........           3,534           3,534
059               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR              141,545         141,545
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
060               F-35 STOVL SERIES....          34,928          34,928
061               F-35 CV SERIES.......          26,004          26,004
062               QRC..................           5,476           5,476
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
063               SPARES AND REPAIR           1,407,626       1,407,626
                   PARTS.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
064               COMMON GROUND                 390,103         390,103
                   EQUIPMENT.
065               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL            23,194          23,194
                   FACILITIES.
066               WAR CONSUMABLES......          40,613          40,613
067               OTHER PRODUCTION                  860             860
                   CHARGES.
068               SPECIAL SUPPORT                36,282          36,282
                   EQUIPMENT.
069               FIRST DESTINATION               1,523           1,523
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        14,109,148      13,951,776
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
001               TRIDENT II MODS......       1,103,086       1,103,086
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
002               MISSILE INDUSTRIAL              6,776           6,776
                   FACILITIES.
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............         186,905         179,905
                      Tomahawk unit                             [-7,000]
                      cost growth.
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
004               AMRAAM...............         204,697         197,447
                      Unit cost growth.                         [-7,250]
005               SIDEWINDER...........          70,912          70,912
006               JSOW.................           2,232           2,232
007               STANDARD MISSILE.....         501,212         497,968
                      Diminishing                               [-3,244]
                      manufacturing
                      sources excess
                      growth.
008               RAM..................          71,557          71,557
009               JOINT AIR GROUND               26,200          21,922
                   MISSILE (JAGM).
                      Unit cost savings                         [-4,278]
012               STAND OFF PRECISION             3,316           3,316
                   GUIDED MUNITIONS
                   (SOPGM).
013               AERIAL TARGETS.......         137,484         137,484
014               OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT           3,248           3,248
015               LRASM................          29,643          29,643
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
016               ESSM.................          52,935          52,935
018               HARM MODS............         178,213         178,213
019               STANDARD MISSILES               8,164           8,164
                   MODS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
020               WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL              1,964           1,964
                   FACILITIES.
021               FLEET SATELLITE COMM           36,723          36,723
                   FOLLOW-ON.
                  ORDNANCE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
022               ORDNANCE SUPPORT               59,096          59,096
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  TORPEDOES AND RELATED
                   EQUIP
023               SSTD.................           5,910           5,910
024               MK-48 TORPEDO........          44,537          44,537
025               ASW TARGETS..........           9,302           9,302
                  MOD OF TORPEDOES AND
                   RELATED EQUIP
026               MK-54 TORPEDO MODS...          98,092          98,092
027               MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP            46,139          46,139
                   MODS.
028               QUICKSTRIKE MINE.....           1,236           1,236
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
029               TORPEDO SUPPORT                60,061          60,061
                   EQUIPMENT.
030               ASW RANGE SUPPORT....           3,706           3,706
                  DESTINATION
                   TRANSPORTATION
031               FIRST DESTINATION               3,804           3,804
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
032               SMALL ARMS AND                 18,002          18,002
                   WEAPONS.
                  MODIFICATION OF GUNS
                   AND GUN MOUNTS
033               CIWS MODS............          50,900          50,900
034               COAST GUARD WEAPONS..          25,295          25,295
035               GUN MOUNT MODS.......          77,003          77,003
036               LCS MODULE WEAPONS...           2,776           2,776
038               AIRBORNE MINE                  15,753          15,753
                   NEUTRALIZATION
                   SYSTEMS.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
040               SPARES AND REPAIR              62,383          62,383
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL WEAPONS          3,209,262       3,187,490
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          91,659          91,659
002               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          65,759          65,759
                   TYPES.
003               MACHINE GUN                     8,152           8,152
                   AMMUNITION.
004               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          41,873          41,873
005               CARTRIDGES & CART              54,002          54,002
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
006               AIR EXPENDABLE                 57,034          57,034
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
007               JATOS................           2,735           2,735
009               5 INCH/54 GUN                  19,220          19,220
                   AMMUNITION.
010               INTERMEDIATE CALIBER           30,196          30,196
                   GUN AMMUNITION.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                 39,009          39,009
                   AMMUNITION.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING           46,727          46,727
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                 9,806           9,806
                   DEMOLITION.
014               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            2,900           2,900
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
015               SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION          27,958          27,958
017               40 MM, ALL TYPES.....          14,758          14,758
018               60MM, ALL TYPES......             992             992
020               120MM, ALL TYPES.....          16,757          12,157
                      120mm early to                            [-4,600]
                      need.
021               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..             972             972
022               ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...          14,186          14,186
023               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.          68,656          68,656
024               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           1,700           1,700
                   ALL TYPES.
025               FUZE, ALL TYPES......          26,088          26,088
027               AMMO MODERNIZATION...          14,660          14,660
028               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              8,569           6,069
                   MILLION.
                      Early to need....                         [-2,500]
                       TOTAL                    664,368         657,268
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  SHIPBUILDING AND
                   CONVERSION, NAVY
                  FLEET BALLISTIC
                   MISSILE SHIPS
001               OHIO REPLACEMENT              773,138         773,138
                   SUBMARINE ADVANCE
                   PROCUREMENT.
                  OTHER WARSHIPS
002               CARRIER REPLACEMENT         1,291,783       1,291,783
                   PROGRAM.
003                  ADVANCE                  1,370,784       1,370,784
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
004               VIRGINIA CLASS              3,187,985       3,187,985
                   SUBMARINE.
005                  ADVANCE                  1,767,234       1,852,234
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      Long-lead Time                            [85,000]
                      Materiel Orders
                      for Virginia
                      Class.
006               CVN REFUELING               1,743,220       1,743,220
                   OVERHAULS.
007                  ADVANCE                    248,599         248,599
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               DDG 1000.............         271,756         271,756
009               DDG-51...............       3,211,292       3,261,092
                      Fund additional                           [49,800]
                      FY16 destroyer.
011               LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.       1,125,625       1,097,625
                      Unjustified                              [-28,000]
                      growth.
                  AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
012A              AMPHIBIOUS SHIP                               440,000
                   REPLACEMENT LX(R).
                      Procurement of                           [440,000]
                      LPD-29 or LX (R).
016               LHA REPLACEMENT......       1,623,024       1,623,024
                  AUXILIARIES, CRAFT
                   AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM
                   COST
020                  ADVANCE                     73,079          73,079
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
022               MOORED TRAINING SHIP.         624,527         624,527
025               OUTFITTING...........         666,158         645,054
                      Outfitting and                           [-21,104]
                      post delivery
                      funds early to
                      need.
026               SHIP TO SHORE                 128,067         128,067
                   CONNECTOR.
027               SERVICE CRAFT........          65,192          65,192
028               LCAC SLEP............           1,774           1,774
029               YP CRAFT MAINTENANCE/          21,363          21,363
                   ROH/SLEP.
030               COMPLETION OF PY              160,274         160,274
                   SHIPBUILDING
                   PROGRAMS.
                       TOTAL                 18,354,874      18,880,570
                       SHIPBUILDING AND
                       CONVERSION, NAVY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  SHIP PROPULSION
                   EQUIPMENT
003               SURFACE POWER                  15,514          15,514
                   EQUIPMENT.
004               HYBRID ELECTRIC DRIVE          40,132          39,282
                   (HED).
                      Installation                                [-850]
                      early to need.
                  GENERATORS
005               SURFACE COMBATANT              29,974          29,974
                   HM&E.
                  NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
006               OTHER NAVIGATION               63,942          63,942
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
008               SUB PERISCOPE,                136,421         136,421
                   IMAGING AND SUPT
                   EQUIP PROG.
009               DDG MOD..............         367,766         367,766
010               FIREFIGHTING                   14,743          14,743
                   EQUIPMENT.
011               COMMAND AND CONTROL             2,140           2,140
                   SWITCHBOARD.
012               LHA/LHD MIDLIFE......          24,939          24,939
014               POLLUTION CONTROL              20,191          19,342
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      HF062 lightering                            [-849]
                      systems unit cost
                      growth.
015               SUBMARINE SUPPORT               8,995           8,995
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               VIRGINIA CLASS                 66,838          66,838
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
017               LCS CLASS SUPPORT              54,823          54,823
                   EQUIPMENT.
018               SUBMARINE BATTERIES..          23,359          23,359
019               LPD CLASS SUPPORT              40,321          40,321
                   EQUIPMENT.
020               DDG 1000 CLASS                 33,404          33,404
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
021               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             15,836          15,836
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
022               DSSP EQUIPMENT.......             806             806
024               LCAC.................           3,090           3,090
025               UNDERWATER EOD                 24,350          24,350
                   PROGRAMS.
026               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             88,719          86,899
                   MILLION.
                      LSD boat davit                              [-993]
                      kit cost growth.
                      Propellers and                              [-827]
                      shafts unit cost
                      growth.
027               CHEMICAL WARFARE                2,873           2,873
                   DETECTORS.
028               SUBMARINE LIFE                  6,043           6,043
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                  REACTOR PLANT
                   EQUIPMENT
030               REACTOR COMPONENTS...         342,158         342,158
                  OCEAN ENGINEERING
031               DIVING AND SALVAGE              8,973           8,973
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SMALL BOATS
032               STANDARD BOATS.......          43,684          43,684
                  PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                   EQUIPMENT
034               OPERATING FORCES IPE.          75,421          75,421
                  OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
035               NUCLEAR ALTERATIONS..         172,718         172,718
036               LCS COMMON MISSION             27,840          17,840
                   MODULES EQUIPMENT.
                      RMMV program                             [-10,000]
                      restructure.
037               LCS MCM MISSION                57,146          57,146
                   MODULES.
038               LCS ASW MISSION                31,952          21,952
                   MODULES.
                      Early to need....                        [-10,000]
039               LCS SUW MISSION                22,466          21,064
                   MODULES.
                      MK-46 gun weapon                          [-1,402]
                      system contract
                      delays.
                  LOGISTIC SUPPORT
041               LSD MIDLIFE..........          10,813          10,813
                  SHIP SONARS
042               SPQ-9B RADAR.........          14,363          14,363
043               AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW             90,029          90,029
                   COMBAT SYSTEM.
045               SSN ACOUSTIC                  248,765         248,765
                   EQUIPMENT.
046               UNDERSEA WARFARE                7,163           7,163
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
048               SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC             21,291          21,291
                   WARFARE SYSTEM.
049               SSTD.................           6,893           6,893
050               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            145,701         145,701
                   SYSTEM.
051               SURTASS..............          36,136          36,136
                  ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   EQUIPMENT
053               AN/SLQ-32............         274,892         266,641
                      Block 3 excess                            [-4,270]
                      support.
                      Block 3T excess                           [-1,000]
                      support.
                      Block 3T                                  [-2,981]
                      installation
                      prior year
                      carryover.
                  RECONNAISSANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
054               SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT.         170,733         170,733
055               AUTOMATED                         958             958
                   IDENTIFICATION
                   SYSTEM (AIS).
                  OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
057               COOPERATIVE                    22,034          22,034
                   ENGAGEMENT
                   CAPABILITY.
059               NAVAL TACTICAL                 12,336          12,336
                   COMMAND SUPPORT
                   SYSTEM (NTCSS).
060               ATDLS................          30,105          30,105
061               NAVY COMMAND AND                4,556           4,556
                   CONTROL SYSTEM
                   (NCCS).
062               MINESWEEPING SYSTEM            56,675          32,198
                   REPLACEMENT.
                      Ahead of need....                        [-24,477]
063               SHALLOW WATER MCM....           8,875           8,875
064               NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS          12,752          12,752
                   (SPACE).
065               AMERICAN FORCES RADIO           4,577           4,577
                   AND TV SERVICE.
066               STRATEGIC PLATFORM              8,972           8,972
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  AVIATION ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
069               ASHORE ATC EQUIPMENT.          75,068          75,068
070               AFLOAT ATC EQUIPMENT.          33,484          33,484
076               ID SYSTEMS...........          22,177          22,177
077               NAVAL MISSION                  14,273          14,273
                   PLANNING SYSTEMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
080               TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I            27,927          27,927
                   SYSTEMS.
081               DCGS-N...............          12,676          12,676
082               CANES................         212,030         212,030
083               RADIAC...............           8,092           8,092
084               CANES-INTELL.........          36,013          36,013
085               GPETE................           6,428           6,428
087               INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM             8,376           8,376
                   TEST FACILITY.
088               EMI CONTROL                     3,971           3,971
                   INSTRUMENTATION.
089               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             58,721          58,721
                   MILLION.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
090               SHIPBOARD TACTICAL             17,366          17,366
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
091               SHIP COMMUNICATIONS           102,479         102,479
                   AUTOMATION.
092               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS           10,403          10,403
                   UNDER $5M.
                  SUBMARINE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
093               SUBMARINE BROADCAST            34,151          34,151
                   SUPPORT.
094               SUBMARINE                      64,529          64,529
                   COMMUNICATION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
095               SATELLITE                      14,414          14,414
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   SYSTEMS.
096               NAVY MULTIBAND                 38,365          38,365
                   TERMINAL (NMT).
                  SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
097               JCS COMMUNICATIONS              4,156           4,156
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                   EQUIPMENT
099               INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY          85,694          85,694
                   PROGRAM (ISSP).
100               MIO INTEL                         920             920
                   EXPLOITATION TEAM.
                  CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
101               CRYPTOLOGIC                    21,098          21,098
                   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP.
                  OTHER ELECTRONIC
                   SUPPORT
102               COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT          32,291          32,291
                  SONOBUOYS
103               SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES.         162,588         159,541
                      Excess unit cost                          [-3,047]
                      growth.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
104               WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT          58,116          58,116
                   EQUIPMENT.
105               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT              120,324         120,324
                   EQUIPMENT.
106               METEOROLOGICAL                 29,253          29,253
                   EQUIPMENT.
107               DCRS/DPL.............             632             632
108               AIRBORNE MINE                  29,097          29,097
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
109               AVIATION SUPPORT               39,099          39,099
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                   EQUIPMENT
110               SHIP GUN SYSTEMS                6,191           6,191
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
                   EQUIPMENT
111               SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT          320,446         310,946
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Program execution                         [-9,500]
112               TOMAHAWK SUPPORT               71,046          71,046
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
113               STRATEGIC MISSILE             215,138         215,138
                   SYSTEMS EQUIP.
                  ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
114               SSN COMBAT CONTROL            130,715         130,715
                   SYSTEMS.
115               ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          26,431          26,431
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
116               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             11,821          11,821
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
117               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              6,243           6,243
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER EXPENDABLE
                   ORDNANCE
118               SUBMARINE TRAINING             48,020          48,020
                   DEVICE MODS.
120               SURFACE TRAINING               97,514          94,979
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Unjustified                               [-2,535]
                      growth.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
121               PASSENGER CARRYING              8,853           8,853
                   VEHICLES.
122               GENERAL PURPOSE                 4,928           4,928
                   TRUCKS.
123               CONSTRUCTION &                 18,527          18,527
                   MAINTENANCE EQUIP.
124               FIRE FIGHTING                  13,569          13,569
                   EQUIPMENT.
125               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          14,917          14,917
126               AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT.           7,676           7,676
127               POLLUTION CONTROL               2,321           2,321
                   EQUIPMENT.
128               ITEMS UNDER $5                 12,459          12,459
                   MILLION.
129               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,095           1,095
                   VEHICLES.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
131               SUPPLY EQUIPMENT.....          16,023          16,023
133               FIRST DESTINATION               5,115           5,115
                   TRANSPORTATION.
134               SPECIAL PURPOSE               295,471         295,471
                   SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
                  TRAINING DEVICES
136               TRAINING AND                    9,504           9,504
                   EDUCATION EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
137               COMMAND SUPPORT                37,180          29,980
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      CNIC building                             [-7,200]
                      control systems
                      unjustified
                      request.
139               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 4,128           4,128
                   EQUIPMENT.
141               NAVAL MIP SUPPORT               1,925           1,925
                   EQUIPMENT.
142               OPERATING FORCES                4,777           4,777
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
143               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......           9,073           9,073
144               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT          21,107          21,107
                   EQUIPMENT.
145               PHYSICAL SECURITY             100,906         100,906
                   EQUIPMENT.
146               ENTERPRISE                     67,544          67,544
                   INFORMATION
                   TECHNOLOGY.
                  OTHER
150               NEXT GENERATION                98,216          98,216
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICE.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
150A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           9,915           9,915
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
151               SPARES AND REPAIR             199,660         199,660
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER            6,338,861       6,258,930
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               AAV7A1 PIP...........          73,785          71,785
                      Production                                [-2,000]
                      engineering
                      support excess
                      growth.
002               LAV PIP..............          53,423          53,423
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
003               EXPEDITIONARY FIRE              3,360           3,360
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
004               155MM LIGHTWEIGHT               3,318           3,318
                   TOWED HOWITZER.
005               HIGH MOBILITY                  33,725          33,725
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM.
006               WEAPONS AND COMBAT              8,181           8,181
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
007               MODIFICATION KITS....          15,250          15,250
                  GUIDED MISSILES
009               GROUND BASED AIR                9,170           9,170
                   DEFENSE.
010               JAVELIN..............           1,009           1,009
011               FOLLOW ON TO SMAW....          24,666          24,666
012               ANTI-ARMOR WEAPONS             17,080          17,080
                   SYSTEM-HEAVY (AAWS-
                   H).
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
015               COMMON AVIATION                47,312          47,312
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (C.
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
016               REPAIR AND TEST                16,469          16,469
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
019               ITEMS UNDER $5                  7,433           7,433
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
020               AIR OPERATIONS C2              15,917          15,917
                   SYSTEMS.
                  RADAR + EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
021               RADAR SYSTEMS........          17,772          17,772
022               GROUND/AIR TASK               123,758         123,758
                   ORIENTED RADAR (G/
                   ATOR).
023               RQ-21 UAS............          80,217          80,217
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
024               GCSS-MC..............           1,089           1,089
025               FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM..          13,258          13,258
026               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           56,379          56,379
                   EQUIPMENT.
029               RQ-11 UAV............           1,976           1,976
031               DCGS-MC..............           1,149           1,149
032               UAS PAYLOADS.........           2,971           2,971
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
034               NEXT GENERATION                76,302          76,302
                   ENTERPRISE NETWORK
                   (NGEN).
035               COMMON COMPUTER                41,802          39,477
                   RESOURCES.
                      Prior year                                [-2,325]
                      carryover.
036               COMMAND POST SYSTEMS.          90,924          90,924
037               RADIO SYSTEMS........          43,714          43,714
038               COMM SWITCHING &               66,383          66,383
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
039               COMM & ELEC                    30,229          30,229
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
                   SUPPORT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
039A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           2,738           2,738
                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                   VEHICLES
041               COMMERCIAL CARGO               88,312          88,312
                   VEHICLES.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
043               MOTOR TRANSPORT                13,292          13,292
                   MODIFICATIONS.
045               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          113,230         113,230
                   VEHICLE.
046               FAMILY OF TACTICAL              2,691           2,691
                   TRAILERS.
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
048               ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL              18              18
                   EQUIP ASSORT.
050               TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS              78              78
051               POWER EQUIPMENT                17,973          17,973
                   ASSORTED.
052               AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT              7,371           7,371
                   EQUIPMENT.
053               EOD SYSTEMS..........          14,021          14,021
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
054               PHYSICAL SECURITY              31,523          31,523
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
058               TRAINING DEVICES.....          33,658          33,658
060               FAMILY OF                      21,315          21,315
                   CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT.
061               FAMILY OF INTERNALLY            9,654           9,654
                   TRANSPORTABLE VEH
                   (ITV).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
062               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              6,026           6,026
                   MILLION.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
064               SPARES AND REPAIR              22,848          22,848
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL                  1,362,769       1,358,444
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
001               F-35.................       4,401,894       4,188,894
                      Program                                 [-213,000]
                      efficiencies.
002                  ADVANCE                    404,500         404,500
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  TACTICAL AIRLIFT
003               KC-46A TANKER........       2,884,591       2,884,591
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............         145,655         145,655
006               HC-130J..............         317,576         317,576
007                  ADVANCE                     20,000          20,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               MC-130J..............         548,358         548,358
009                  ADVANCE                     50,000          50,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  HELICOPTERS
010               UH-1N REPLACEMENT....          18,337          18,337
                  MISSION SUPPORT
                   AIRCRAFT
012               CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C.           2,637           2,637
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
013               TARGET DRONES........         114,656         114,656
014               RQ-4.................          12,966          12,966
015               MQ-9.................         122,522         122,522
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
016               B-2A.................          46,729          46,729
017               B-1B.................         116,319         116,319
018               B-52.................         109,020         109,020
                  TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
020               A-10.................           1,289           1,289
021               F-15.................         105,685         105,685
022               F-16.................          97,331         114,331
                      Active missile                            [12,000]
                      warning system.
                      Anti-jam global                            [5,000]
                      positioning
                      system (GPS)
                      upgrade.
023               F-22A................         163,008         163,008
024               F-35 MODIFICATIONS...         175,811         175,811
025               INCREMENT 3.2B.......          76,410          76,410
026                  ADVANCE                      2,000           2,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
027               C-5..................          24,192          24,192
029               C-17A................          21,555          21,555
030               C-21.................           5,439           5,439
031               C-32A................          35,235          35,235
032               C-37A................           5,004           5,004
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
033               GLIDER MODS..........             394             394
034               T-6..................          12,765          12,765
035               T-1..................          25,073          17,073
                      Production                                [-8,000]
                      schedule slip.
036               T-38.................          45,090          45,090
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
037               U-2 MODS.............          36,074          36,074
038               KC-10A (ATCA)........           4,570           4,570
039               C-12.................           1,995           1,995
040               VC-25A MOD...........         102,670         102,670
041               C-40.................          13,984          13,984
042               C-130................           9,168          81,668
                      8-Bladed                                  [16,000]
                      Propellers.
                      Electronic                                [13,500]
                      Propeller Control
                      Systems.
                      In-flight                                  [1,500]
                      Propeller
                      Balancing System
                      Certification.
                      T56 3.5 Engine                            [41,500]
                      Upgrade Kits.
043               C-130J MODS..........          89,424          89,424
044               C-135................          64,161          64,161
045               COMPASS CALL MODS....         130,257          59,857
                      Compass Call                             [-70,400]
                      Program
                      Restructure.
046               RC-135...............         211,438         211,438
047               E-3..................          82,786          82,786
048               E-4..................          53,348          53,348
049               E-8..................           6,244           6,244
050               AIRBORNE WARNING AND          223,427         223,427
                   CONTROL SYSTEM.
051               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-          4,673           4,673
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
052               H-1..................           9,007           9,007
054               H-60.................          91,357          91,357
055               RQ-4 MODS............          32,045          32,045
056               HC/MC-130                      30,767          30,767
                   MODIFICATIONS.
057               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......          33,886          33,886
059               MQ-9 MODS............         141,929         141,929
060               CV-22 MODS...........          63,395          63,395
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
061               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR         686,491         673,291
                   PARTS.
                      Compass Call                             [-13,200]
                      Program
                      Restructure.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
062               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT          121,935         121,935
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  POST PRODUCTION
                   SUPPORT
063               B-2A.................             154             154
064               B-2A.................          43,330          43,330
065               B-52.................          28,125          28,125
066               C-17A................          23,559          23,559
069               F-15.................           2,980           2,980
070               F-16.................          15,155          39,955
                      Additional                                [24,800]
                      mission trainers.
071               F-22A................          48,505          48,505
074               RQ-4 POST PRODUCTION               99              99
                   CHARGES.
                  INDUSTRIAL
                   PREPAREDNESS
075               INDUSTRIAL                     14,126          14,126
                   RESPONSIVENESS.
                  WAR CONSUMABLES
076               WAR CONSUMABLES......         120,036         120,036
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
077               OTHER PRODUCTION            1,252,824       1,252,824
                   CHARGES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
077A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          16,952         119,952
                      Compass Call                             [103,000]
                      Program
                      Restructure.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        13,922,917      13,835,617
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  MISSILE REPLACEMENT
                   EQUIPMENT--BALLISTIC
001               MISSILE REPLACEMENT            70,247          70,247
                   EQ-BALLISTIC.
                  TACTICAL
002               JOINT AIR-SURFACE             431,645         431,645
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
003               LRASM0...............          59,511          59,511
004               SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)..         127,438         127,438
005               AMRAAM...............         350,144         339,392
                      Pricing                                  [-10,752]
                      adjustment.
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE              33,955          33,955
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..          92,361          92,361
                  INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
008               INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/             977             977
                   POL PREVENTION.
                  CLASS IV
009               ICBM FUZE MOD........          17,095          17,095
010               MM III MODIFICATIONS.          68,692          68,692
011               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....             282             282
013               AIR LAUNCH CRUISE              21,762          21,762
                   MISSILE (ALCM).
014               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..          15,349          15,349
                  MISSILE SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
015               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          81,607          81,607
                   PARTS.
                  SPECIAL PROGRAMS
030               SPECIAL UPDATE                 46,125          46,125
                   PROGRAMS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
030A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..       1,009,431       1,009,431
                       TOTAL MISSILE          2,426,621       2,415,869
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  SPACE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
001               ADVANCED EHF.........         645,569         645,569
002               AF SATELLITE COMM              42,375          42,375
                   SYSTEM.
003               COUNTERSPACE SYSTEMS.          26,984          26,984
004               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         88,963          88,963
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
005               WIDEBAND GAPFILLER             86,272          86,272
                   SATELLITES(SPACE).
006               GPS III SPACE SEGMENT          34,059          34,059
007               GLOBAL POSTIONING               2,169           2,169
                   (SPACE).
008               SPACEBORNE EQUIP               46,708          46,708
                   (COMSEC).
009               GLOBAL POSITIONING             13,171          10,271
                   (SPACE).
                      Excess to Need...                         [-2,900]
010               MILSATCOM............          41,799          41,799
011               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            768,586         742,586
                   LAUNCH CAPABILITY.
                      Early to need....                        [-26,000]
012               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            737,853         536,853
                   LAUNCH VEH(SPACE).
                      Early to need....                       [-201,000]
013               SBIR HIGH (SPACE)....         362,504         362,504
014               NUDET DETECTION                 4,395           4,395
                   SYSTEM.
015               SPACE MODS...........           8,642           8,642
016               SPACELIFT RANGE               123,088         123,088
                   SYSTEM SPACE.
                  SSPARES
017               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          22,606          22,606
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL SPACE            3,055,743       2,825,843
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............          18,734          18,734
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........         220,237         220,237
                  BOMBS
003               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          97,106          97,106
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         581,561         581,561
005               MASSIVE ORDNANCE                3,600           3,600
                   PENETRATOR (MOP).
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           303,988         297,988
                   MUNITION.
                      Pricing                                   [-6,000]
                      adjustment for
                      increased
                      quantity.
                  OTHER ITEMS
007               CAD/PAD..............          38,890          38,890
008               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              5,714           5,714
                   DISPOSAL (EOD).
009               SPARES AND REPAIR                 740             740
                   PARTS.
010               MODIFICATIONS........             573             573
011               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              5,156           5,156
                   MILLION.
                  FLARES
012               FLARES...............         134,709         134,709
                  FUZES
013               FUZES................         229,252         229,252
                  SMALL ARMS
014               SMALL ARMS...........          37,459          37,459
                       TOTAL                  1,677,719       1,671,719
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING             14,437          14,437
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                24,812          24,812
                   VEHICLE.
003               CAP VEHICLES.........             984             984
004               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             11,191          11,191
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               SECURITY AND TACTICAL           5,361           5,361
                   VEHICLES.
006               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              4,623           4,623
                   MILLION.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
007               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            12,451          12,451
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             18,114          18,114
                   MILLION.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &             2,310           2,310
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             46,868          46,868
                   MILLION.
                  COMM SECURITY
                   EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
012               COMSEC EQUIPMENT.....          72,359          72,359
                  INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
014               INTELLIGENCE TRAINING           6,982           6,982
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               INTELLIGENCE COMM              30,504          30,504
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
016               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          55,803          55,803
                   LANDING SYS.
017               NATIONAL AIRSPACE               2,673           2,673
                   SYSTEM.
018               BATTLE CONTROL                  5,677           5,677
                   SYSTEM--FIXED.
019               THEATER AIR CONTROL             1,163           1,163
                   SYS IMPROVEMENTS.
020               WEATHER OBSERVATION            21,667          21,667
                   FORECAST.
021               STRATEGIC COMMAND AND          39,803          39,803
                   CONTROL.
022               CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN              24,618          24,618
                   COMPLEX.
023               MISSION PLANNING               15,868          15,868
                   SYSTEMS.
025               INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN           9,331           9,331
                   & ANALY NETWORK
                   (ISPAN).
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
026               GENERAL INFORMATION            41,779          41,779
                   TECHNOLOGY.
027               AF GLOBAL COMMAND &            15,729          15,729
                   CONTROL SYS.
028               MOBILITY COMMAND AND            9,814           9,814
                   CONTROL.
029               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL             99,460          99,460
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
030               COMBAT TRAINING                34,850          34,850
                   RANGES.
031               MINIMUM ESSENTIAL             198,925         198,925
                   EMERGENCY COMM N.
032               WIDE AREA                       6,943           6,943
                   SURVEILLANCE (WAS).
033               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...          19,580          19,580
034               GCSS-AF FOS..........           1,743           1,743
036               THEATER BATTLE MGT C2           9,659           9,659
                   SYSTEM.
037               AIR & SPACE                    15,474          15,474
                   OPERATIONS CTR-WPN
                   SYS.
038               AIR OPERATIONS CENTER          30,623          15,323
                   (AOC) 10.2.
                      Fielding.........                        [-15,300]
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
039               INFORMATION TRANSPORT          40,043          40,043
                   SYSTEMS.
040               AFNET................         146,897         146,897
041               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            5,182           5,182
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
042               USCENTCOM............          13,418          13,418
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
052               TACTICAL C-E                  109,836         109,836
                   EQUIPMENT.
053               RADIO EQUIPMENT......          16,266          16,266
054               CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL                7,449           7,449
                   EQUIPMENT.
055               BASE COMM                     109,215         109,215
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  MODIFICATIONS
056               COMM ELECT MODS......          65,700          65,700
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
058               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             54,416          54,416
                   MILLION.
                  DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS
                   HANDLING EQ
059               MECHANIZED MATERIAL             7,344           7,344
                   HANDLING EQUIP.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
060               BASE PROCURED                   6,852           6,852
                   EQUIPMENT.
063               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...           8,146           8,146
064               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             28,427          28,427
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
066               DARP RC135...........          25,287          25,287
067               DCGS-AF..............         169,201         169,201
069               SPECIAL UPDATE                576,710         576,710
                   PROGRAM.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
070A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..      15,119,705      15,119,705
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
072               SPARES AND REPAIR              15,784          15,784
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER           17,438,056      17,422,756
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
037               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD.          29,211          29,211
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
036               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             4,399           4,399
                   SECURITY PROGRAM
                   (ISSP).
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
040               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS.          24,979          24,979
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
006               INFORMATION SYSTEMS            21,347          21,347
                   SECURITY.
007               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....          50,597          50,597
008               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             10,420          10,420
                   MILLION.
009               NET CENTRIC                     1,634           1,634
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICES
                   (NCES).
010               DEFENSE INFORMATION            87,235          87,235
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
011               CYBER SECURITY                  4,528           4,528
                   INITIATIVE.
012               WHITE HOUSE                    36,846          36,846
                   COMMUNICATION AGENCY.
013               SENIOR LEADERSHIP             599,391         599,391
                   ENTERPRISE.
015               JOINT REGIONAL                150,221         150,221
                   SECURITY STACKS
                   (JRSS).
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
017               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           2,055           2,055
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
020               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           1,057           1,057
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCAA
001               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              2,964           2,964
                   MILLION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
038               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS.           7,988           7,988
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
023               THAAD................         369,608         369,608
024               AEGIS BMD............         463,801         528,801
                      Increasing BMD                            [65,000]
                      capability for
                      Aegis Ships.
025               BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS.           5,503           5,503
026               ARROW UPPER TIER.....                         120,000
                      Increase for                             [120,000]
                      Arrow 3
                      Coproduction
                      subject to Title
                      XVI.
027               DAVID'S SLING........                         150,000
                      Increase for DSWS                        [150,000]
                      Coproduction
                      subject to Title
                      XVI.
028               AEGIS ASHORE PHASE             57,493          57,493
                   III.
029               IRON DOME............          42,000          62,000
                      Increase for                              [20,000]
                      Coproduction of
                      Iron Dome Tamir
                      Interceptors
                      subject to Title
                      XVI.
030               AEGIS BMD HARDWARE             50,098          50,098
                   AND SOFTWARE.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
003               PERSONNEL                      14,232          14,232
                   ADMINISTRATION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
021               VEHICLES.............             200             200
022               OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT           6,437           6,437
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DODEA
019               AUTOMATION/                       288             288
                   EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
                   & LOGISTICS.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
002               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......              92              92
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DMACT
018               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           8,060           8,060
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
040A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         568,864         568,864
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
042               ROTARY WING UPGRADES          150,396         150,396
                   AND SUSTAINMENT.
043               UNMANNED ISR.........          21,190          21,190
045               NON-STANDARD AVIATION           4,905           4,905
046               U-28.................           3,970           3,970
047               MH-47 CHINOOK........          25,022          25,022
049               CV-22 MODIFICATION...          19,008          19,008
051               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL           10,598          10,598
                   VEHICLE.
053               PRECISION STRIKE              213,122         200,072
                   PACKAGE.
                      SOCOM requested                          [-13,050]
                      transfer.
054               AC/MC-130J...........          73,548          86,598
                      SOCOM requested                           [13,050]
                      transfer.
055               C-130 MODIFICATIONS..          32,970          32,970
                  SHIPBUILDING
056               UNDERWATER SYSTEMS...          37,098          37,098
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
057               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..         105,267         105,267
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
058               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.          79,963          79,963
059               DISTRIBUTED COMMON             13,432          13,432
                   GROUND/SURFACE
                   SYSTEMS.
060               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....          66,436          66,436
061               COMBATANT CRAFT                55,820          55,820
                   SYSTEMS.
062               SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....         107,432         107,432
063               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          67,849          67,849
064               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.         245,781         245,781
065               COMBAT MISSION                 19,566          19,566
                   REQUIREMENTS.
066               GLOBAL VIDEO                    3,437           3,437
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   ACTIVITIES.
067               OPERATIONAL                    17,299          17,299
                   ENHANCEMENTS
                   INTELLIGENCE.
069               OPERATIONAL                   219,945         219,945
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                  CBDP
070               CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL           148,203         148,203
                   SITUATIONAL
                   AWARENESS.
071               CB PROTECTION &               161,113         161,113
                   HAZARD MITIGATION.
                       TOTAL                  4,524,918       4,879,918
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
001               JOINT URGENT                   99,300               0
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND.
                      Program decrease.                        [-99,300]
                       TOTAL JOINT               99,300               0
                       URGENT
                       OPERATIONAL
                       NEEDS FUND.
 
                  NATIONAL GUARD AND
                   RESERVE EQUIPMENT
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
007               MISCELLANEOUS                                 250,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Program increase.                        [250,000]
                       TOTAL NATIONAL                           250,000
                       GUARD AND
                       RESERVE
                       EQUIPMENT.
 
                       TOTAL                101,971,592     102,422,660
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
      SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                         Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
      Line                 Item             Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
015               MULTI SENSOR ABN               21,400          21,400
                   RECON (MIP).
020               EMARSS SEMA MODS               42,700          42,700
                   (MIP).
026               RQ-7 UAV MODS........           1,775           1,775
027               UAS MODS.............           4,420           4,420
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
030               CMWS.................          56,115          56,115
031               CIRCM................         108,721         108,721
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           235,131         235,131
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
004               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.         305,830         305,830
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
007               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)               15,567          15,567
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
008               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          80,652          80,652
010               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET             75,991          75,991
                   (GMLRS).
012               LETHAL MINIATURE               51,277          51,277
                   AERIAL MISSILE
                   SYSTEM (LMAMS.
                       TOTAL MISSILE            529,317         529,317
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
007               PALADIN INTEGRATED            125,184         125,184
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
009               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           5,950           5,950
014               ABRAMS UPGRADE                                 72,000
                   PROGRAM.
                      Army requested                           [172,000]
                      realignment (ERI).
                      Realign APS Unit                        [-100,000]
                      Set Requirements
                      to Base.
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
017               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......          22,410          22,410
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
036               BRADLEY PROGRAM......                          72,800
                      Army requested                            [72,800]
                      realignment (ERI).
                       TOTAL                    153,544         298,344
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL                9,642           9,642
                   TYPES.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL               6,607           6,607
                   TYPES.
005               CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES.           1,077           1,077
006               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.          28,534          28,534
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          20,000          20,000
008               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.           7,423           7,423
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
009               60MM MORTAR, ALL               10,000          10,000
                   TYPES.
010               81MM MORTAR, ALL                2,677           2,677
                   TYPES.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,               8,999           8,999
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
014               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,          30,348          30,348
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED               140             140
                   RANGE M982.
016               ARTILLERY                      29,655          29,655
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                  MINES
017               MINES & CLEARING               16,866          16,866
                   CHARGES, ALL TYPES.
                  NETWORKED MUNITIONS
018               SPIDER NETWORK                 10,353          10,353
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
                  ROCKETS
019               SHOULDER LAUNCHED              63,210          63,210
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL          42,851          42,851
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
022               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           6,373           6,373
                   ALL TYPES.
023               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..           4,143           4,143
024               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           1,852           1,852
                  MISCELLANEOUS
027               NON-LETHAL                        773             773
                   AMMUNITION, ALL
                   TYPES.
                       TOTAL                    301,523         301,523
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
002               SEMITRAILERS,                   4,180           4,180
                   FLATBED:.
008               FAMILY OF MEDIUM              147,476         147,476
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
010               FAMILY OF HEAVY                 6,122           6,122
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
011               PLS ESP..............         106,358         106,358
012               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE           203,766         203,766
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
013               TACTICAL WHEELED              101,154         101,154
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
014               MODIFICATION OF IN            155,456         155,456
                   SVC EQUIP.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
019               WIN-T--GROUND FORCES            9,572           9,572
                   TACTICAL NETWORK.
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
025               SHF TERM.............          24,000          24,000
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
047               CI AUTOMATION                   1,550           1,550
                   ARCHITECTURE.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
051               COMMUNICATIONS                  1,928           1,928
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
052               DEFENSIVE CYBER                26,500          26,500
                   OPERATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
056               INSTALLATION INFO              20,510          20,510
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
062               DCGS-A (MIP).........          33,032          33,032
064               TROJAN (MIP).........           3,305           3,305
066               CI HUMINT AUTO                  7,233           7,233
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
069               BIOMETRIC TACTICAL              5,670           5,670
                   COLLECTION DEVICES
                   (MIP).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
070               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER            25,892          25,892
                   MORTAR RADAR.
074               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT           11,610          11,610
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   CAPABILITIE.
075               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/           23,890          23,890
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
080               INDIRECT FIRE                  76,270          76,270
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
089               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL             2,572           2,572
                   SYSTEM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
092               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              69,958          69,958
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
102               AUTOMATED DATA                  9,900           9,900
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
                  ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
108               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M                96              96
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
114               CBRN DEFENSE.........           1,841           1,841
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
115               TACTICAL BRIDGING....          26,000          26,000
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
124               ROBOTICS AND APPLIQUE             268             268
                   SYSTEMS.
128               FAMILY OF BOATS AND               280             280
                   MOTORS.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
129               HEATERS AND ECU'S....             894             894
134               FORCE PROVIDER.......          53,800          53,800
135               FIELD FEEDING                   2,665           2,665
                   EQUIPMENT.
136               CARGO AERIAL DEL &              2,400           2,400
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
137               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT           9,789           9,789
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
138               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M               300             300
                   (ENG SPT).
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
139               QUALITY SURVEILLANCE            4,800           4,800
                   EQUIPMENT.
140               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          78,240          78,240
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
141               COMBAT SUPPORT                  5,763           5,763
                   MEDICAL.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
142               MOBILE MAINTENANCE              1,609           1,609
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
143               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M             145             145
                   (MAINT EQ).
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
144               GRADER, ROAD MTZD,              3,047           3,047
                   HVY, 6X4 (CCE).
148               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED           4,426           4,426
151               HIGH MOBILITY                   2,900           2,900
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
155               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M              96              96
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                  GENERATORS
158               GENERATORS AND                 21,861          21,861
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
160               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..             846             846
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
168               TEST EQUIPMENT                  1,140           1,140
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
170               RAPID EQUIPPING                 8,500           8,500
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
                       TOTAL OTHER            1,309,610       1,309,610
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPROVISED-
                   THREAT DEFEAT FUND
                  NETWORK ATTACK
001               RAPID ACQUISITION AND         332,000         332,000
                   THREAT RESPONSE.
                  STAFF AND
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
002               MISSION ENABLERS.....          62,800          62,800
                       TOTAL JOINT              394,800         394,800
                       IMPROVISED-
                       THREAT DEFEAT
                       FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
002               F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER)           184,912         184,912
                   HORNET.
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
026               STUASL0 UAV..........          70,000          70,000
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
037               EP-3 SERIES..........           7,505           7,505
047               SPECIAL PROJECT                14,869          14,869
                   AIRCRAFT.
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.          70,780          70,780
059               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR                8,740           8,740
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
063               SPARES AND REPAIR               1,500           1,500
                   PARTS.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
065               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL               524             524
                   FACILITIES.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           358,830         358,830
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
010               HELLFIRE.............           8,600           8,600
                       TOTAL WEAPONS              8,600           8,600
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          40,366          40,366
002               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL           8,860           8,860
                   TYPES.
006               AIR EXPENDABLE                  7,060           7,060
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                 1,122           1,122
                   DEMOLITION.
014               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            3,495           3,495
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
015               SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION           1,205           1,205
017               40 MM, ALL TYPES.....             539             539
018               60MM, ALL TYPES......             909             909
020               120MM, ALL TYPES.....             530             530
022               ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...             469             469
023               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.           1,196           1,196
024               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,             261             261
                   ALL TYPES.
025               FUZE, ALL TYPES......             217             217
                       TOTAL                     66,229          66,229
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
081               DCGS-N...............          12,000          12,000
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
116               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             40,000          40,000
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
124               FIRE FIGHTING                     630             630
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
133               FIRST DESTINATION                  25              25
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
137               COMMAND SUPPORT                10,562          10,562
                   EQUIPMENT.
139               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 5,000           5,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
150A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           1,660           1,660
                       TOTAL OTHER               69,877          69,877
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
006               WEAPONS AND COMBAT                572             572
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.
                  GUIDED MISSILES
010               JAVELIN..............           1,606           1,606
                  OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
018               MODIFICATION KITS....           2,600           2,600
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
019               ITEMS UNDER $5                  2,200           2,200
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
026               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           20,981          20,981
                   EQUIPMENT.
029               RQ-11 UAV............           3,817           3,817
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
035               COMMON COMPUTER                 2,600           2,600
                   RESOURCES.
037               RADIO SYSTEMS........           9,563           9,563
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
053               EOD SYSTEMS..........          75,000          75,000
                       TOTAL                    118,939         118,939
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............          73,000          73,000
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
015               MQ-9.................         273,600         186,600
                      Air Force                                [-87,000]
                      requested
                      transfer to line
                      61 for spares.
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
019               LARGE AIRCRAFT                135,801         135,801
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  TACTICAL AIRCRAFT
020               A-10.................          23,850          23,850
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
047               E-3..................           6,600           6,600
056               HC/MC-130                      13,550          13,550
                   MODIFICATIONS.
057               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......           7,500           7,500
059               MQ-9 MODS............         112,068         112,068
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
061               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          25,600          87,000
                   PARTS.
                      Air Force                                 [87,000]
                      requested
                      transfer from
                      line 15 for
                      spares.
                      Compass Call                             [-25,600]
                      Program
                      Restructure.
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
077               OTHER PRODUCTION                8,400           8,400
                   CHARGES.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           679,969         654,369
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE             145,125         145,125
                   MISSILE.
                  CLASS IV
011               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....           9,720           9,720
                       TOTAL MISSILE            154,845         154,845
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........           9,830           9,830
                  BOMBS
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS           7,921           7,921
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           140,126         130,876
                   MUNITION.
                      Pricing                                   [-9,250]
                      adjustment.
                  FLARES
012               FLARES...............           6,531           6,531
                       TOTAL                    164,408         155,158
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING              2,003           2,003
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                 9,066           9,066
                   VEHICLE.
004               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             12,264          12,264
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
006               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             16,789          16,789
                   MILLION.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
007               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            48,590          48,590
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              2,366           2,366
                   MILLION.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &             6,468           6,468
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              9,271           9,271
                   MILLION.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
016               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          42,650          42,650
                   LANDING SYS.
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
029               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL              7,500           7,500
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
033               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...             620             620
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
052               TACTICAL C-E                    8,100           8,100
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  MODIFICATIONS
056               COMM ELECT MODS......           3,800           3,800
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
061               ENGINEERING AND EOD            53,900          53,900
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
067               DCGS-AF..............             800             800
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
070A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..       3,609,978       3,609,978
                       TOTAL OTHER            3,834,165       3,834,165
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
007               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....           1,900           1,900
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
040A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          32,482          32,482
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
041               MC-12................           5,000           5,000
043               UNMANNED ISR.........          11,880          11,880
046               U-28.................          38,283          38,283
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
057               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..          52,504          52,504
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
058               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.          22,000          22,000
060               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....          11,580          11,580
062               SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....          13,549          13,549
063               TACTICAL VEHICLES....           3,200           3,200
069               OPERATIONAL                    42,056          22,806
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                      Classified                               [-19,250]
                      adjustment.
                       TOTAL                    234,434         215,184
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                       TOTAL                  8,614,221       8,704,921
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4103. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR BASE 
REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4103. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR BASE
                 REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
      Line                 Item             Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  ROTARY
006               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK             78,040          78,040
                   IIIA REMAN.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT            78,040          78,040
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
004               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.         150,000         150,000
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
007               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)                              104,200
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
                      Army unfunded                            [104,200]
                      requirement.
010               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET                             76,000
                   (GMLRS).
                      Army unfunded                             [76,000]
                      requirement.
                  MODIFICATIONS
014               ATACMS MODS..........                          15,900
                      Army unfunded                             [15,900]
                      requirement.
                       TOTAL MISSILE            150,000         346,100
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL                                4,000
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                              [4,000]
                      requirement.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL                               14,000
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                             [14,000]
                      requirement.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL                               9,000
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                              [9,000]
                      requirement.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL                              20,000
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                             [20,000]
                      requirement.
005               CTG, 20MM, ALL TYPES.                          14,000
                      Army unfunded                             [14,000]
                      requirement.
007               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.                           8,200
                      Army unfunded                              [8,200]
                      requirement.
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
011               120MM MORTAR, ALL                              30,000
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                             [30,000]
                      requirement.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
012               CARTRIDGES, TANK,                              35,000
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                             [35,000]
                      requirement.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
015               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED                            23,500
                   RANGE M982.
                      Army unfunded                             [23,500]
                      requirement.
016               ARTILLERY                                      10,000
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                      Army unfunded                             [10,000]
                      requirement.
                  ROCKETS
019               SHOULDER LAUNCHED                              30,000
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                             [30,000]
                      requirement.
020               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL                          42,500
                   TYPES.
                      Army unfunded                             [27,500]
                      requirement.
                      Army unfunded                             [15,000]
                      requirement-
                      guided hydra
                      rockets.
                       TOTAL                                    240,200
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
008               FAMILY OF MEDIUM              152,000         152,000
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
                  GENERATORS
158               GENERATORS AND                  9,900           9,900
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
                       TOTAL OTHER              161,900         161,900
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPROVISED-
                   THREAT DEFEAT FUND
                  NETWORK ATTACK
001               RAPID ACQUISITION AND         113,272         113,272
                   THREAT RESPONSE.
                       TOTAL JOINT              113,272         113,272
                       IMPROVISED-
                       THREAT DEFEAT
                       FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
035               SH-60 SERIES.........           3,000           3,000
036               H-1 SERIES...........           3,740           3,740
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.          27,460          27,460
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT            34,200          34,200
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............                          84,200
                      Scope Increase...                         [84,200]
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
005               SIDEWINDER...........                          33,000
                      Navy unfunded                             [33,000]
                      requirement.
                       TOTAL WEAPONS                            117,200
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS                          58,000
                      Navy unfunded                             [58,000]
                      requirement--JDAM
                      components.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
023               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.                          19,200
                      Marine Corps                              [19,200]
                      unfunded
                      requirement-
                      GMLRS AW
                      munitions.
                       TOTAL                                     77,200
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
116               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             59,329          59,329
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
                       TOTAL OTHER               59,329          59,329
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
015               MQ-9.................         179,430         179,430
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           179,430         179,430
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..         167,800         167,800
                  CLASS IV
011               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....          16,900          16,900
                       TOTAL MISSILE            184,700         184,700
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............          60,000          60,000
                  BOMBS
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           263,000         263,000
                   MUNITION.
                       TOTAL                    323,000         323,000
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
007               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....           2,000           2,000
016               DEFENSE INFORMATION             2,000           2,000
                   SYSTEMS NETWORK.
                       TOTAL                      4,000           4,000
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                       TOTAL                  1,287,871       1,918,571
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
              Program                          FY 2017       Conference
  Line       Element            Item          Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL,
                           ARMY
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601101A         IN-HOUSE                12,381         12,381
                           LABORATORY
                           INDEPENDENT
                           RESEARCH.
   002   0601102A         DEFENSE RESEARCH       253,116        253,116
                           SCIENCES.
   003   0601103A         UNIVERSITY              69,166         69,166
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
   004   0601104A         UNIVERSITY AND          94,280         94,280
                           INDUSTRY
                           RESEARCH
                           CENTERS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            428,943        428,943
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   005   0602105A         MATERIALS               31,533         37,033
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Ground                             [5,500]
                              vehicle
                              coating
                              system.
   006   0602120A         SENSORS AND             36,109         38,109
                           ELECTRONIC
                           SURVIVABILITY.
         ...............      Program                            [2,000]
                              increase.
   007   0602122A         TRACTOR HIP.....         6,995          6,995
   008   0602211A         AVIATION                65,914         65,914
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   009   0602270A         ELECTRONIC              25,466         25,466
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   010   0602303A         MISSILE                 44,313         44,313
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   011   0602307A         ADVANCED WEAPONS        28,803         28,803
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   012   0602308A         ADVANCED                27,688         27,688
                           CONCEPTS AND
                           SIMULATION.
   013   0602601A         COMBAT VEHICLE          67,959         67,959
                           AND AUTOMOTIVE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   014   0602618A         BALLISTICS              85,436         85,436
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   015   0602622A         CHEMICAL, SMOKE          3,923          3,923
                           AND EQUIPMENT
                           DEFEATING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   016   0602623A         JOINT SERVICE            5,545          5,545
                           SMALL ARMS
                           PROGRAM.
   017   0602624A         WEAPONS AND             53,581         53,581
                           MUNITIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0602705A         ELECTRONICS AND         56,322         56,322
                           ELECTRONIC
                           DEVICES.
   019   0602709A         NIGHT VISION            36,079         36,079
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0602712A         COUNTERMINE             26,497         26,497
                           SYSTEMS.
   021   0602716A         HUMAN FACTORS           23,671         23,671
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   022   0602720A         ENVIRONMENTAL           22,151         22,151
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   023   0602782A         COMMAND,                37,803         37,803
                           CONTROL,
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0602783A         COMPUTER AND            13,811         13,811
                           SOFTWARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0602784A         MILITARY                67,416         67,416
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   026   0602785A         MANPOWER/               26,045         26,045
                           PERSONNEL/
                           TRAINING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   027   0602786A         WARFIGHTER              37,403         42,403
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Program                            [5,000]
                              Increase.
   028   0602787A         MEDICAL                 77,111         77,111
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            907,574        920,074
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   029   0603001A         WARFIGHTER              38,831         38,831
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   030   0603002A         MEDICAL ADVANCED        68,365         68,365
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   031   0603003A         AVIATION                94,280         94,280
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   032   0603004A         WEAPONS AND             68,714         68,714
                           MUNITIONS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   033   0603005A         COMBAT VEHICLE         122,132        152,132
                           AND AUTOMOTIVE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Emerging                          [30,000]
                              requirement.
   034   0603006A         SPACE                    3,904          3,904
                           APPLICATION
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   035   0603007A         MANPOWER,               14,417         14,417
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           TRAINING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   037   0603009A         TRACTOR HIKE....         8,074         21,374
         ...............      Classified                        [13,300]
                              adjustment.
   038   0603015A         NEXT GENERATION         18,969         18,969
                           TRAINING &
                           SIMULATION
                           SYSTEMS.
   039   0603020A         TRACTOR ROSE....        11,910         11,910
   040   0603125A         COMBATING               27,686         27,686
                           TERRORISM--TECH
                           NOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   041   0603130A         TRACTOR NAIL....         2,340          2,340
   042   0603131A         TRACTOR EGGS....         2,470          2,470
   043   0603270A         ELECTRONIC              27,893         27,893
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   044   0603313A         MISSILE AND             52,190         52,190
                           ROCKET ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   045   0603322A         TRACTOR CAGE....        11,107         11,107
   046   0603461A         HIGH PERFORMANCE       177,190        179,190
                           COMPUTING
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Program                            [2,000]
                              increase.
   047   0603606A         LANDMINE WARFARE        17,451         17,451
                           AND BARRIER
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   048   0603607A         JOINT SERVICE            5,839          5,839
                           SMALL ARMS
                           PROGRAM.
   049   0603710A         NIGHT VISION            44,468         44,468
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   050   0603728A         ENVIRONMENTAL           11,137         11,137
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   051   0603734A         MILITARY                20,684         20,684
                           ENGINEERING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   052   0603772A         ADVANCED                44,239         44,239
                           TACTICAL
                           COMPUTER
                           SCIENCE AND
                           SENSOR
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   053   0603794A         C3 ADVANCED             35,775         35,775
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            930,065        975,365
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   054   0603305A         ARMY MISSLE              9,433          9,433
                           DEFENSE SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   055   0603308A         ARMY SPACE              23,056         23,056
                           SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   056   0603619A         LANDMINE WARFARE        72,117         72,117
                           AND BARRIER--
                           ADV DEV.
   057   0603627A         SMOKE, OBSCURANT        28,244         28,244
                           AND TARGET
                           DEFEATING SYS-
                           ADV DEV.
   058   0603639A         TANK AND MEDIUM         40,096         40,096
                           CALIBER
                           AMMUNITION.
   059   0603747A         SOLDIER SUPPORT         10,506         10,506
                           AND
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   060   0603766A         TACTICAL                15,730         15,730
                           ELECTRONIC
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM--ADV DEV.
   061   0603774A         NIGHT VISION            10,321         10,321
                           SYSTEMS
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   062   0603779A         ENVIRONMENTAL            7,785          7,785
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY--DEM/
                           VAL.
   063   0603790A         NATO RESEARCH            2,300          2,300
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   064   0603801A         AVIATION--ADV           10,014         10,014
                           DEV.
   065   0603804A         LOGISTICS AND           20,834         20,834
                           ENGINEER
                           EQUIPMENT--ADV
                           DEV.
   066   0603807A         MEDICAL SYSTEMS--       33,503         33,503
                           ADV DEV.
   067   0603827A         SOLDIER SYSTEMS--       31,120         40,520
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Accelerate                         [9,400]
                              small arms
                              improvement.
   068   0604100A         ANALYSIS OF              6,608          6,608
                           ALTERNATIVES.
   069   0604114A         LOWER TIER AIR          35,132         35,132
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           (LTAMD) SENSOR.
   070   0604115A         TECHNOLOGY              70,047         61,038
                           MATURATION
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      Excess                            [-9,009]
                              growth.
   071   0604120A         ASSURED                 83,279         83,279
                           POSITIONING,
                           NAVIGATION AND
                           TIMING (PNT).
   073   0305251A         CYBERSPACE              40,510         30,510
                           OPERATIONS
                           FORCES AND
                           FORCE SUPPORT.
         ...............      Inadequate                       [-10,000]
                              justificatio
                              n.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            550,635        541,026
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   074   0604201A         AIRCRAFT                83,248         83,248
                           AVIONICS.
   075   0604270A         ELECTRONIC              34,642         34,642
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   077   0604290A         MID-TIER                12,172         12,172
                           NETWORKING
                           VEHICULAR RADIO
                           (MNVR).
   078   0604321A         ALL SOURCE               3,958          3,958
                           ANALYSIS SYSTEM.
   079   0604328A         TRACTOR CAGE....        12,525         12,525
   080   0604601A         INFANTRY SUPPORT        66,943         66,943
                           WEAPONS.
   082   0604611A         JAVELIN.........        20,011         20,011
   083   0604622A         FAMILY OF HEAVY         11,429         11,429
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLES.
   084   0604633A         AIR TRAFFIC              3,421          3,421
                           CONTROL.
   085   0604641A         TACTICAL                39,282         39,282
                           UNMANNED GROUND
                           VEHICLE (TUGV).
   086   0604642A         LIGHT TACTICAL             494            494
                           WHEELED
                           VEHICLES.
   087   0604645A         ARMORED SYSTEMS          9,678          9,678
                           MODERNIZATION
                           (ASM)--ENG DEV.
   088   0604710A         NIGHT VISION            84,519         84,519
                           SYSTEMS--ENG
                           DEV.
   089   0604713A         COMBAT FEEDING,          2,054          2,054
                           CLOTHING, AND
                           EQUIPMENT.
   090   0604715A         NON-SYSTEM              30,774         30,774
                           TRAINING
                           DEVICES--ENG
                           DEV.
   091   0604741A         AIR DEFENSE             53,332         61,332
                           COMMAND,
                           CONTROL AND
                           INTELLIGENCE--E
                           NG DEV.
         ...............      Program                            [8,000]
                              increase-
                              all digital
                              radar
                              technology
                              for CRAM.
   092   0604742A         CONSTRUCTIVE            17,887         17,887
                           SIMULATION
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   093   0604746A         AUTOMATIC TEST           8,813          8,813
                           EQUIPMENT
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   094   0604760A         DISTRIBUTIVE            10,487         10,487
                           INTERACTIVE
                           SIMULATIONS
                           (DIS)--ENG DEV.
   095   0604780A         COMBINED ARMS           15,068         15,068
                           TACTICAL
                           TRAINER (CATT)
                           CORE.
   096   0604798A         BRIGADE                 89,716         89,716
                           ANALYSIS,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           EVALUATION.
   097   0604802A         WEAPONS AND             80,365         80,365
                           MUNITIONS--ENG
                           DEV.
   098   0604804A         LOGISTICS AND           75,098         86,198
                           ENGINEER
                           EQUIPMENT--ENG
                           DEV.
         ...............      Program                           [11,100]
                              Increase-
                              next
                              generation
                              signature
                              management.
   099   0604805A         COMMAND,                 4,245          4,245
                           CONTROL,
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS--ENG
                           DEV.
   100   0604807A         MEDICAL MATERIEL/       41,124         41,124
                           MEDICAL
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           EQUIPMENT--ENG
                           DEV.
   101   0604808A         LANDMINE WARFARE/       39,630         39,630
                           BARRIER--ENG
                           DEV.
   102   0604818A         ARMY TACTICAL          205,590        205,590
                           COMMAND &
                           CONTROL
                           HARDWARE &
                           SOFTWARE.
   103   0604820A         RADAR                   15,983         15,983
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   104   0604822A         GENERAL FUND             6,805          6,805
                           ENTERPRISE
                           BUSINESS SYSTEM
                           (GFEBS).
   105   0604823A         FIREFINDER......         9,235          9,235
   106   0604827A         SOLDIER SYSTEMS--       12,393         12,393
                           WARRIOR DEM/VAL.
   107   0604854A         ARTILLERY                1,756          1,756
                           SYSTEMS--EMD.
   108   0605013A         INFORMATION             74,236         74,236
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   109   0605018A         INTEGRATED             155,584        144,584
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                           (IPPS-A).
         ...............      Unjustified                      [-11,000]
                              growth.
   110   0605028A         ARMORED MULTI-         184,221        184,221
                           PURPOSE VEHICLE
                           (AMPV).
   111   0605029A         INTEGRATED               4,980          4,980
                           GROUND SECURITY
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           RESPONSE
                           CAPABILITY
                           (IGSSR-C).
   112   0605030A         JOINT TACTICAL          15,041         15,041
                           NETWORK CENTER
                           (JTNC).
   113   0605031A         JOINT TACTICAL          16,014         16,014
                           NETWORK (JTN).
   114   0605032A         TRACTOR TIRE....        27,254         27,254
   115   0605033A         GROUND-BASED             5,032          5,032
                           OPERATIONAL
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM--EXPEDIT
                           IONARY (GBOSS-
                           E).
   116   0605034A         TACTICAL                 2,904          2,904
                           SECURITY SYSTEM
                           (TSS).
   117   0605035A         COMMON INFRARED         96,977         96,977
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (CIRCM).
   118   0605036A         COMBATING                2,089          2,089
                           WEAPONS OF MASS
                           DESTRUCTION
                           (CWMD).
   119   0605041A         DEFENSIVE CYBER         33,836         33,836
                           TOOL
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   120   0605042A         TACTICAL NETWORK        18,824         18,824
                           RADIO SYSTEMS
                           (LOW-TIER).
   121   0605047A         CONTRACT WRITING        20,663         20,663
                           SYSTEM.
   122   0605051A         AIRCRAFT                41,133         41,133
                           SURVIVABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   123   0605052A         INDIRECT FIRE           83,995         83,995
                           PROTECTION
                           CAPABILITY INC
                           2--BLOCK 1.
   125   0605380A         AMF JOINT                5,028          5,028
                           TACTICAL RADIO
                           SYSTEM (JTRS).
   126   0605450A         JOINT AIR-TO-           42,972         42,972
                           GROUND MISSILE
                           (JAGM).
   128   0605457A         ARMY INTEGRATED        252,811        252,811
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE (AIAMD).
   131   0605766A         NATIONAL                 4,955          4,955
                           CAPABILITIES
                           INTEGRATION
                           (MIP).
   132   0605812A         JOINT LIGHT             11,530         11,530
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLE (JLTV)
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           MANUFACTURING
                           DEVELOPMENT PH.
   133   0605830A         AVIATION GROUND          2,142          2,142
                           SUPPORT
                           EQUIPMENT.
   134   0210609A         PALADIN                 41,498         41,498
                           INTEGRATED
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (PIM).
   135   0303032A         TROJAN--RH12....         4,273          4,273
   136   0304270A         ELECTRONIC              14,425         14,425
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          2,265,094      2,273,194
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  RDT&E MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   137   0604256A         THREAT SIMULATOR        25,675         25,675
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   138   0604258A         TARGET SYSTEMS          19,122         19,122
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   139   0604759A         MAJOR T&E               84,777         84,777
                           INVESTMENT.
   140   0605103A         RAND ARROYO             20,658         20,658
                           CENTER.
   141   0605301A         ARMY KWAJALEIN         236,648        236,648
                           ATOLL.
   142   0605326A         CONCEPTS                25,596         25,596
                           EXPERIMENTATION
                           PROGRAM.
   144   0605601A         ARMY TEST RANGES       293,748        293,748
                           AND FACILITIES.
   145   0605602A         ARMY TECHNICAL          52,404         52,404
                           TEST
                           INSTRUMENTATION
                           AND TARGETS.
   146   0605604A         SURVIVABILITY/          38,571         38,571
                           LETHALITY
                           ANALYSIS.
   147   0605606A         AIRCRAFT                 4,665          4,665
                           CERTIFICATION.
   148   0605702A         METEOROLOGICAL           6,925          6,925
                           SUPPORT TO
                           RDT&E
                           ACTIVITIES.
   149   0605706A         MATERIEL SYSTEMS        21,677         21,677
                           ANALYSIS.
   150   0605709A         EXPLOITATION OF         12,415         12,415
                           FOREIGN ITEMS.
   151   0605712A         SUPPORT OF              49,684         49,684
                           OPERATIONAL
                           TESTING.
   152   0605716A         ARMY EVALUATION         55,905         55,905
                           CENTER.
   153   0605718A         ARMY MODELING &          7,959          7,959
                           SIM X-CMD
                           COLLABORATION &
                           INTEG.
   154   0605801A         PROGRAMWIDE             51,822         51,822
                           ACTIVITIES.
   155   0605803A         TECHNICAL               33,323         33,323
                           INFORMATION
                           ACTIVITIES.
   156   0605805A         MUNITIONS               40,545         40,545
                           STANDARDIZATION
                           , EFFECTIVENESS
                           AND SAFETY.
   157   0605857A         ENVIRONMENTAL            2,130          2,130
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY MGMT
                           SUPPORT.
   158   0605898A         MANAGEMENT HQ--         49,885         49,885
                           R&D.
   159   0303260A         DEFENSE MILITARY         2,000          2,000
                           DECEPTION
                           INITIATIVE.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,136,134      1,136,134
                             RDT&E
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   161   0603778A         MLRS PRODUCT             9,663          9,663
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   162   0603813A         TRACTOR PULL....         3,960          3,960
   163   0605024A         ANTI-TAMPER              3,638          3,638
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           SUPPORT.
   164   0607131A         WEAPONS AND             14,517         14,517
                           MUNITIONS
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   165   0607133A         TRACTOR SMOKE...         4,479          4,479
   166   0607134A         LONG RANGE              39,275         39,275
                           PRECISION FIRES
                           (LRPF).
   167   0607135A         APACHE PRODUCT          66,441         66,441
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   168   0607136A         BLACKHAWK               46,765         46,765
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   169   0607137A         CHINOOK PRODUCT         91,848         91,848
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   170   0607138A         FIXED WING                 796            796
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   171   0607139A         IMPROVED TURBINE       126,105        126,105
                           ENGINE PROGRAM.
   172   0607140A         EMERGING                 2,369          2,369
                           TECHNOLOGIES
                           FROM NIE.
   173   0607141A         LOGISTICS                4,563          4,563
                           AUTOMATION.
   174   0607665A         FAMILY OF               12,098         12,098
                           BIOMETRICS.
   175   0607865A         PATRIOT PRODUCT         49,482         49,482
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   176   0202429A         AEROSTAT JOINT          45,482          2,482
                           PROJECT--COCOM
                           EXERCISE.
         ...............      Program                          [-43,000]
                              reduction.
   178   0203728A         JOINT AUTOMATED         30,455         30,455
                           DEEP OPERATION
                           COORDINATION
                           SYSTEM (JADOCS).
   179   0203735A         COMBAT VEHICLE         316,857        316,857
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   180   0203740A         MANEUVER CONTROL         4,031          4,031
                           SYSTEM.
   181   0203744A         AIRCRAFT                35,793         35,793
                           MODIFICATIONS/
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   182   0203752A         AIRCRAFT ENGINE            259            259
                           COMPONENT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   183   0203758A         DIGITIZATION....         6,483          6,483
   184   0203801A         MISSILE/AIR              5,122          5,122
                           DEFENSE PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   185   0203802A         OTHER MISSILE            7,491          7,491
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   186   0203808A         TRACTOR CARD....        20,333         20,333
   188   0205410A         MATERIALS                  124            124
                           HANDLING
                           EQUIPMENT.
   190   0205456A         LOWER TIER AIR          69,417         69,417
                           AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE (AMD)
                           SYSTEM.
   191   0205778A         GUIDED MULTIPLE-        22,044         22,044
                           LAUNCH ROCKET
                           SYSTEM (GMLRS).
   192   0208053A         JOINT TACTICAL          12,649         12,649
                           GROUND SYSTEM.
   194   0303028A         SECURITY AND            11,619         11,619
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   195   0303140A         INFORMATION             38,280         38,280
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   196   0303141A         GLOBAL COMBAT           27,223         27,223
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   197   0303142A         SATCOM GROUND           18,815         18,815
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           (SPACE).
   198   0303150A         WWMCCS/GLOBAL            4,718          4,718
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM.
   202   0305204A         TACTICAL                 8,218          8,218
                           UNMANNED AERIAL
                           VEHICLES.
   203   0305206A         AIRBORNE                11,799         11,799
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
   204   0305208A         DISTRIBUTED             32,284         32,284
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   205   0305219A         MQ-1C GRAY EAGLE        13,470         13,470
                           UAS.
   206   0305232A         RQ-11 UAV.......         1,613          1,613
   207   0305233A         RQ-7 UAV........         4,597          4,597
   209   0310349A         WIN-T INCREMENT          4,867          4,867
                           2--INITIAL
                           NETWORKING.
   210   0708045A         END ITEM                62,287         62,287
                           INDUSTRIAL
                           PREPAREDNESS
                           ACTIVITIES.
  210A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED               4,625          4,625
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,296,954      1,253,954
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL           7,515,399      7,528,690
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, ARMY.
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL,
                           NAVY
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601103N         UNIVERSITY             101,714        121,714
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      Program                           [20,000]
                              increase.
   002   0601152N         IN-HOUSE                18,508         18,508
                           LABORATORY
                           INDEPENDENT
                           RESEARCH.
   003   0601153N         DEFENSE RESEARCH       422,748        422,748
                           SCIENCES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            542,970        562,970
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602114N         POWER PROJECTION        41,371         41,371
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   005   0602123N         FORCE PROTECTION       158,745        158,745
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   006   0602131M         MARINE CORPS            51,590         51,590
                           LANDING FORCE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   007   0602235N         COMMON PICTURE          41,185         41,185
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   008   0602236N         WARFIGHTER              45,467         45,467
                           SUSTAINMENT
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   009   0602271N         ELECTROMAGNETIC        118,941        118,941
                           SYSTEMS APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   010   0602435N         OCEAN                   42,618         72,618
                           WARFIGHTING
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
         ...............      Service Life                      [30,000]
                              Extension
                              Program--AGO
                              R.
   011   0602651M         JOINT NON-LETHAL         6,327          6,327
                           WEAPONS APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   012   0602747N         UNDERSEA WARFARE       126,313        126,313
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   013   0602750N         FUTURE NAVAL           165,103        165,103
                           CAPABILITIES
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   014   0602782N         MINE AND                33,916         33,916
                           EXPEDITIONARY
                           WARFARE APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   015   0602898N         SCIENCE AND             29,575         29,575
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           MANAGEMENT--ONR
                           HEADQUARTERS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            861,151        891,151
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   016   0603114N         POWER PROJECTION        96,406         96,406
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   017   0603123N         FORCE PROTECTION        48,438         48,438
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0603271N         ELECTROMAGNETIC         26,421         26,421
                           SYSTEMS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   019   0603640M         USMC ADVANCED          140,416        140,416
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATION
                           (ATD).
   020   0603651M         JOINT NON-LETHAL        13,117         13,117
                           WEAPONS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   021   0603673N         FUTURE NAVAL           249,092        247,092
                           CAPABILITIES
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Capable                           [-2,000]
                              manpower,
                              and power
                              and energy.
   022   0603680N         MANUFACTURING           56,712         56,712
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   023   0603729N         WARFIGHTER               4,789          4,789
                           PROTECTION
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0603747N         UNDERSEA WARFARE        25,880         25,880
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0603758N         NAVY WARFIGHTING        60,550         60,550
                           EXPERIMENTS AND
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   026   0603782N         MINE AND                15,167         15,167
                           EXPEDITIONARY
                           WARFARE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            736,988        734,988
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   027   0603207N         AIR/OCEAN               48,536         48,536
                           TACTICAL
                           APPLICATIONS.
   028   0603216N         AVIATION                 5,239          5,239
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   030   0603251N         AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS         1,519          1,519
   031   0603254N         ASW SYSTEMS              7,041          7,041
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   032   0603261N         TACTICAL                 3,274          3,274
                           AIRBORNE
                           RECONNAISSANCE.
   033   0603382N         ADVANCED COMBAT         57,034         15,496
                           SYSTEMS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Rapid                            [-30,267]
                              prototype
                              development
                              excess
                              growth.
         ...............      Unmanned                         [-11,271]
                              rapid
                              prototype
                              development
                              excess
                              growth.
   034   0603502N         SURFACE AND            165,775        143,548
                           SHALLOW WATER
                           MINE
                           COUNTERMEASURES.
         ...............      Excess prior                      [-1,500]
                              year funds.
         ...............      LDUUV                            [-13,800]
                              product
                              development
                              excess
                              growth.
         ...............      USV with AQS-                     [-5,750]
                              20 product
                              development
                              excess
                              growth.
         ...............      USV with AQS-                     [-1,177]
                              20 support
                              excess
                              growth.
   035   0603506N         SURFACE SHIP            87,066         87,066
                           TORPEDO DEFENSE.
   036   0603512N         CARRIER SYSTEMS          7,605          7,605
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   037   0603525N         PILOT FISH......       132,068        132,068
   038   0603527N         RETRACT LARCH...        14,546         14,546
   039   0603536N         RETRACT JUNIPER.       115,435        115,435
   040   0603542N         RADIOLOGICAL               702            702
                           CONTROL.
   041   0603553N         SURFACE ASW.....         1,081          1,081
   042   0603561N         ADVANCED               100,565        100,565
                           SUBMARINE
                           SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   043   0603562N         SUBMARINE                8,782          8,782
                           TACTICAL
                           WARFARE SYSTEMS.
   044   0603563N         SHIP CONCEPT            14,590         14,590
                           ADVANCED DESIGN.
   045   0603564N         SHIP PRELIMINARY        15,805         15,805
                           DESIGN &
                           FEASIBILITY
                           STUDIES.
   046   0603570N         ADVANCED NUCLEAR       453,313        453,313
                           POWER SYSTEMS.
   047   0603573N         ADVANCED SURFACE        36,655         36,655
                           MACHINERY
                           SYSTEMS.
   048   0603576N         CHALK EAGLE.....       367,016        367,016
   049   0603581N         LITTORAL COMBAT         51,630         51,630
                           SHIP (LCS).
   050   0603582N         COMBAT SYSTEM           23,530         23,530
                           INTEGRATION.
   051   0603595N         OHIO REPLACEMENT       700,811        700,811
   052   0603596N         LCS MISSION            160,058        129,187
                           MODULES.
         ...............      Program                          [-30,871]
                              Restructure.
   053   0603597N         AUTOMATED TEST                          8,000
                           AND ANALYSIS.
         ...............      Program                            [8,000]
                              increase.
   054   0603599N         FRIGATE                 84,900         84,900
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   055   0603609N         CONVENTIONAL             8,342          8,342
                           MUNITIONS.
   056   0603611M         MARINE CORPS           158,682        138,762
                           ASSAULT
                           VEHICLES.
         ...............      Product                          [-19,920]
                              development
                              prior year
                              carryover.
   057   0603635M         MARINE CORPS             1,303          1,303
                           GROUND COMBAT/
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   058   0603654N         JOINT SERVICE           46,911         46,911
                           EXPLOSIVE
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   060   0603713N         OCEAN                    4,556          4,556
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   061   0603721N         ENVIRONMENTAL           20,343         20,343
                           PROTECTION.
   062   0603724N         NAVY ENERGY             52,479         52,479
                           PROGRAM.
   063   0603725N         FACILITIES               5,458          5,458
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   064   0603734N         CHALK CORAL.....       245,860        245,860
   065   0603739N         NAVY LOGISTIC            3,089          3,089
                           PRODUCTIVITY.
   066   0603746N         RETRACT MAPLE...       323,526        323,526
   067   0603748N         LINK PLUMERIA...       318,497        318,497
   068   0603751N         RETRACT ELM.....        52,834         52,834
   069   0603764N         LINK EVERGREEN..        48,116         48,116
   070   0603787N         SPECIAL                 13,619         13,619
                           PROCESSES.
   071   0603790N         NATO RESEARCH            9,867          9,867
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   072   0603795N         LAND ATTACK              6,015          6,015
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   073   0603851M         JOINT NON-LETHAL        27,904         27,904
                           WEAPONS TESTING.
   074   0603860N         JOINT PRECISION        104,144        102,722
                           APPROACH AND
                           LANDING
                           SYSTEMS--DEM/
                           VAL.
         ...............      UCLASS test                       [-1,422]
                              support
                              unjustified
                              request.
   075   0603925N         DIRECTED ENERGY         32,700         32,700
                           AND ELECTRIC
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   076   0604112N         GERALD R. FORD          70,528         70,528
                           CLASS NUCLEAR
                           AIRCRAFT
                           CARRIER (CVN
                           78--80).
   077   0604122N         REMOTE                   3,001          3,001
                           MINEHUNTING
                           SYSTEM (RMS).
   078   0604272N         TACTICAL AIR            34,920         34,920
                           DIRECTIONAL
                           INFRARED
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (TADIRCM).
   080   0604292N         MH-XX...........         1,620          1,620
   081   0604454N         LX (R)..........         6,354          6,354
   082   0604536N         ADVANCED                78,589         44,189
                           UNDERSEA
                           PROTOTYPING.
         ...............      Ahead of                         [-34,400]
                              need.
   084   0604659N         PRECISION STRIKE         9,910          9,910
                           WEAPONS
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   085   0604707N         SPACE AND               23,971         23,971
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (SEW)
                           ARCHITECTURE/
                           ENGINEERING
                           SUPPORT.
   086   0604786N         OFFENSIVE ANTI-        252,409        250,371
                           SURFACE WARFARE
                           WEAPON
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Increment II                      [-2,038]
                              early to
                              need.
   087   0605812M         JOINT LIGHT             23,197         23,197
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLE (JLTV)
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           MANUFACTURING
                           DEVELOPMENT PH.
   088   0303354N         ASW SYSTEMS              9,110          9,110
                           DEVELOPMENT--MI
                           P.
   089   0304270N         ELECTRONIC                 437            437
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT--MI
                           P.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          4,662,867      4,518,451
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   090   0603208N         TRAINING SYSTEM         19,938         19,938
                           AIRCRAFT.
   091   0604212N         OTHER HELO               6,268          6,268
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   092   0604214N         AV-8B AIRCRAFT--        33,664         33,664
                           ENG DEV.
   093   0604215N         STANDARDS                1,300          1,300
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   094   0604216N         MULTI-MISSION            5,275          5,275
                           HELICOPTER
                           UPGRADE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   095   0604218N         AIR/OCEAN                3,875          3,875
                           EQUIPMENT
                           ENGINEERING.
   096   0604221N         P-3                      1,909          1,909
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   097   0604230N         WARFARE SUPPORT         13,237         13,237
                           SYSTEM.
   098   0604231N         TACTICAL COMMAND        36,323         36,323
                           SYSTEM.
   099   0604234N         ADVANCED HAWKEYE       363,792        363,792
   100   0604245N         H-1 UPGRADES....        27,441         27,441
   101   0604261N         ACOUSTIC SEARCH         34,525         34,525
                           SENSORS.
   102   0604262N         V-22A...........       174,423        157,698
         ...............      Hardware                          [-8,474]
                              development
                              airframe
                              excess
                              growth.
         ...............      Refueling                         [-8,251]
                              system
                              development
                              excess
                              growth.
   103   0604264N         AIR CREW SYSTEMS        13,577         13,577
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   104   0604269N         EA-18...........       116,761        116,761
   105   0604270N         ELECTRONIC              48,766         48,766
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   106   0604273N         EXECUTIVE HELO         338,357        338,357
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   107   0604274N         NEXT GENERATION        577,822        577,822
                           JAMMER (NGJ).
   108   0604280N         JOINT TACTICAL           2,365          2,365
                           RADIO SYSTEM--
                           NAVY (JTRS-
                           NAVY).
   109   0604282N         NEXT GENERATION         52,065         42,065
                           JAMMER (NGJ)
                           INCREMENT II.
         ...............      Program                          [-10,000]
                              growth.
   110   0604307N         SURFACE                282,764        282,764
                           COMBATANT
                           COMBAT SYSTEM
                           ENGINEERING.
   111   0604311N         LPD-17 CLASS               580            580
                           SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   112   0604329N         SMALL DIAMETER          97,622         97,622
                           BOMB (SDB).
   113   0604366N         STANDARD MISSILE       120,561        120,561
                           IMPROVEMENTS.
   114   0604373N         AIRBORNE MCM....        45,622         45,622
   116   0604378N         NAVAL INTEGRATED        25,750         25,750
                           FIRE CONTROL--
                           COUNTER AIR
                           SYSTEMS
                           ENGINEERING.
   118   0604501N         ADVANCED ABOVE          85,868         85,868
                           WATER SENSORS.
   119   0604503N         SSN-688 AND            117,476        117,476
                           TRIDENT
                           MODERNIZATION.
   120   0604504N         AIR CONTROL.....        47,404         47,404
   121   0604512N         SHIPBOARD              112,158        112,158
                           AVIATION
                           SYSTEMS.
   122   0604518N         COMBAT                   6,283          6,283
                           INFORMATION
                           CENTER
                           CONVERSION.
   123   0604522N         AIR AND MISSILE        144,395        144,395
                           DEFENSE RADAR
                           (AMDR) SYSTEM.
   124   0604558N         NEW DESIGN SSN..       113,013        113,013
   125   0604562N         SUBMARINE               43,160         43,160
                           TACTICAL
                           WARFARE SYSTEM.
   126   0604567N         SHIP CONTRACT           65,002         85,002
                           DESIGN/ LIVE
                           FIRE T&E.
         ...............      CVN Design..                      [20,000]
   127   0604574N         NAVY TACTICAL            3,098          3,098
                           COMPUTER
                           RESOURCES.
   128   0604580N         VIRGINIA PAYLOAD        97,920         97,920
                           MODULE (VPM).
   129   0604601N         MINE DEVELOPMENT        10,490         10,490
   130   0604610N         LIGHTWEIGHT             20,178         20,178
                           TORPEDO
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   131   0604654N         JOINT SERVICE            7,369          7,369
                           EXPLOSIVE
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   132   0604703N         PERSONNEL,               4,995          4,995
                           TRAINING,
                           SIMULATION, AND
                           HUMAN FACTORS.
   133   0604727N         JOINT STANDOFF             412            412
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   134   0604755N         SHIP SELF              134,619        134,619
                           DEFENSE (DETECT
                           & CONTROL).
   135   0604756N         SHIP SELF              114,475        105,475
                           DEFENSE
                           (ENGAGE: HARD
                           KILL).
         ...............      Program                           [-9,000]
                              Execution.
   136   0604757N         SHIP SELF              114,211        111,211
                           DEFENSE
                           (ENGAGE: SOFT
                           KILL/EW).
         ...............      Decoy                             [-3,000]
                              development
                              effort
                              unjustified
                              growth.
   137   0604761N         INTELLIGENCE            11,029         11,029
                           ENGINEERING.
   138   0604771N         MEDICAL                  9,220          9,220
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   139   0604777N         NAVIGATION/ID           42,723         42,723
                           SYSTEM.
   140   0604800M         JOINT STRIKE           531,426        531,426
                           FIGHTER (JSF)--
                           EMD.
   141   0604800N         JOINT STRIKE           528,716        528,716
                           FIGHTER (JSF)--
                           EMD.
   142   0604810M         JOINT STRIKE            74,227         71,977
                           FIGHTER FOLLOW
                           ON DEVELOPMENT--
                           MARINE CORPS.
         ...............      Follow-on                         [-2,250]
                              development
                              excess funds.
   143   0604810N         JOINT STRIKE            63,387         61,137
                           FIGHTER FOLLOW
                           ON DEVELOPMENT--
                           NAVY.
         ...............      Follow-on                         [-2,250]
                              development
                              excess funds.
   144   0605013M         INFORMATION              4,856          4,856
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   145   0605013N         INFORMATION             97,066         97,066
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   146   0605024N         ANTI-TAMPER              2,500          2,500
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           SUPPORT.
   147   0605212N         CH-53K RDTE.....       404,810        373,297
         ...............      Program                          [-31,513]
                              delay.
   148   0605215N         MISSION PLANNING        33,570         33,570
   149   0605217N         COMMON AVIONICS.        51,599         51,599
   150   0605220N         SHIP TO SHORE           11,088         11,088
                           CONNECTOR (SSC).
   151   0605327N         T-AO (X)........         1,095          1,095
   152   0605414N         MQ-XX...........        89,000         77,000
         ...............      Excess                           [-12,000]
                              Obligation.
   153   0605450N         JOINT AIR-TO-           17,880         17,880
                           GROUND MISSILE
                           (JAGM).
   154   0605500N         MULTI-MISSION           59,126         59,126
                           MARITIME
                           AIRCRAFT (MMA).
   155   0605504N         MULTI-MISSION          182,220        152,220
                           MARITIME (MMA)
                           INCREMENT III.
         ...............      Program                          [-30,000]
                              execution.
   156   0204202N         DDG-1000........        45,642         45,642
   159   0304231N         TACTICAL COMMAND           676            676
                           SYSTEM--MIP.
   160   0304785N         TACTICAL                36,747         36,747
                           CRYPTOLOGIC
                           SYSTEMS.
   161   0305124N         SPECIAL                 35,002         35,002
                           APPLICATIONS
                           PROGRAM.
   162   0306250M         CYBER OPERATIONS         4,942          4,942
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          6,025,655      5,928,917
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   163   0604256N         THREAT SIMULATOR        16,633         16,633
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   164   0604258N         TARGET SYSTEMS          36,662         36,662
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   165   0604759N         MAJOR T&E               42,109         42,109
                           INVESTMENT.
   166   0605126N         JOINT THEATER            2,998          2,998
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE
                           ORGANIZATION.
   167   0605152N         STUDIES AND              3,931          3,931
                           ANALYSIS
                           SUPPORT--NAVY.
   168   0605154N         CENTER FOR NAVAL        46,634         46,634
                           ANALYSES.
   169   0605285N         NEXT GENERATION          1,200          1,200
                           FIGHTER.
   171   0605804N         TECHNICAL                  903            903
                           INFORMATION
                           SERVICES.
   172   0605853N         MANAGEMENT,             87,077         87,077
                           TECHNICAL &
                           INTERNATIONAL
                           SUPPORT.
   173   0605856N         STRATEGIC                3,597          3,597
                           TECHNICAL
                           SUPPORT.
   174   0605861N         RDT&E SCIENCE           62,811         62,811
                           AND TECHNOLOGY
                           MANAGEMENT.
   175   0605863N         RDT&E SHIP AND         106,093        106,093
                           AIRCRAFT
                           SUPPORT.
   176   0605864N         TEST AND               349,146        349,146
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   177   0605865N         OPERATIONAL TEST        18,160         18,160
                           AND EVALUATION
                           CAPABILITY.
   178   0605866N         NAVY SPACE AND           9,658          9,658
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (SEW)
                           SUPPORT.
   179   0605867N         SEW SURVEILLANCE/        6,500          6,500
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SUPPORT.
   180   0605873M         MARINE CORPS            22,247         22,247
                           PROGRAM WIDE
                           SUPPORT.
   181   0605898N         MANAGEMENT HQ--         16,254         16,254
                           R&D.
   182   0606355N         WARFARE                 21,123         21,123
                           INNOVATION
                           MANAGEMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            853,736        853,736
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   188   0607658N         COOPERATIVE             84,501         84,501
                           ENGAGEMENT
                           CAPABILITY
                           (CEC).
   189   0607700N         DEPLOYABLE JOINT         2,970          2,970
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL.
   190   0101221N         STRATEGIC SUB &        136,556        136,556
                           WEAPONS SYSTEM
                           SUPPORT.
   191   0101224N         SSBN SECURITY           33,845         33,845
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   192   0101226N         SUBMARINE                9,329          9,329
                           ACOUSTIC
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   193   0101402N         NAVY STRATEGIC          17,218         17,218
                           COMMUNICATIONS.
   195   0204136N         F/A-18 SQUADRONS       189,125        189,125
   196   0204163N         FLEET                   48,225         48,225
                           TELECOMMUNICATI
                           ONS (TACTICAL).
   197   0204228N         SURFACE SUPPORT.        21,156         21,156
   198   0204229N         TOMAHAWK AND            71,355         71,355
                           TOMAHAWK
                           MISSION
                           PLANNING CENTER
                           (TMPC).
   199   0204311N         INTEGRATED              58,542         57,058
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM.
         ...............      TASW                              [-1,484]
                              prototypes
                              excess
                              growth.
   200   0204413N         AMPHIBIOUS              13,929         13,929
                           TACTICAL
                           SUPPORT UNITS
                           (DISPLACEMENT
                           CRAFT).
   201   0204460M         GROUND/AIR TASK         83,538         83,538
                           ORIENTED RADAR
                           (G/ATOR).
   202   0204571N         CONSOLIDATED            38,593         38,593
                           TRAINING
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   203   0204574N         CRYPTOLOGIC              1,122          1,122
                           DIRECT SUPPORT.
   204   0204575N         ELECTRONIC              99,998         99,998
                           WARFARE (EW)
                           READINESS
                           SUPPORT.
   205   0205601N         HARM IMPROVEMENT        48,635         48,635
   206   0205604N         TACTICAL DATA          124,785        124,785
                           LINKS.
   207   0205620N         SURFACE ASW             24,583         24,583
                           COMBAT SYSTEM
                           INTEGRATION.
   208   0205632N         MK-48 ADCAP.....        39,134         39,134
   209   0205633N         AVIATION               120,861        120,861
                           IMPROVEMENTS.
   210   0205675N         OPERATIONAL            101,786        101,786
                           NUCLEAR POWER
                           SYSTEMS.
   211   0206313M         MARINE CORPS            82,159         82,159
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS.
   212   0206335M         COMMON AVIATION         11,850         11,850
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM
                           (CAC2S).
   213   0206623M         MARINE CORPS            47,877         47,877
                           GROUND COMBAT/
                           SUPPORTING ARMS
                           SYSTEMS.
   214   0206624M         MARINE CORPS            13,194         13,194
                           COMBAT SERVICES
                           SUPPORT.
   215   0206625M         USMC                    17,171         17,171
                           INTELLIGENCE/
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE SYSTEMS
                           (MIP).
   216   0206629M         AMPHIBIOUS              38,020         38,020
                           ASSAULT VEHICLE.
   217   0207161N         TACTICAL AIM            56,285         56,285
                           MISSILES.
   218   0207163N         ADVANCED MEDIUM         40,350         40,350
                           RANGE AIR-TO-
                           AIR MISSILE
                           (AMRAAM).
   219   0219902M         GLOBAL COMBAT            9,128          9,128
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM--
                           MARINE CORPS
                           (GCSS-MC).
   223   0303109N         SATELLITE               37,372         37,372
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           (SPACE).
   224   0303138N         CONSOLIDATED            23,541         23,541
                           AFLOAT NETWORK
                           ENTERPRISE
                           SERVICES
                           (CANES).
   225   0303140N         INFORMATION             38,510         38,510
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   228   0305192N         MILITARY                 6,019          6,019
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           PROGRAM (MIP)
                           ACTIVITIES.
   229   0305204N         TACTICAL                 8,436          8,436
                           UNMANNED AERIAL
                           VEHICLES.
   230   0305205N         UAS INTEGRATION         36,509         33,509
                           AND
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y.
         ...............      Prior year                        [-3,000]
                              carryover.
   231   0305208M         DISTRIBUTED              2,100          2,100
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   232   0305208N         DISTRIBUTED             44,571         44,571
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   233   0305220N         MQ-4C TRITON....       111,729        111,729
   234   0305231N         MQ-8 UAV........        26,518         26,518
   235   0305232M         RQ-11 UAV.......           418            418
   236   0305233N         RQ-7 UAV........           716            716
   237   0305234N         SMALL (LEVEL 0)          5,071          5,071
                           TACTICAL UAS
                           (STUASL0).
   238   0305239M         RQ-21A..........         9,497          9,497
   239   0305241N         MULTI-                  77,965         77,965
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           SENSOR
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   240   0305242M         UNMANNED AERIAL         11,181         11,181
                           SYSTEMS (UAS)
                           PAYLOADS (MIP).
   241   0305421N         RQ-4                   181,266        181,266
                           MODERNIZATION.
   242   0308601N         MODELING AND             4,709          4,709
                           SIMULATION
                           SUPPORT.
   243   0702207N         DEPOT                   49,322         49,322
                           MAINTENANCE
                           (NON-IF).
   245   0708730N         MARITIME                 3,204          3,204
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (MARITECH).
  245A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED           1,228,460      1,228,460
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,592,934      3,588,450
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          17,276,301     17,078,663
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, NAVY.
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL, AF
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601102F         DEFENSE RESEARCH       340,812        340,812
                           SCIENCES.
   002   0601103F         UNIVERSITY             145,044        145,044
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
   003   0601108F         HIGH ENERGY             14,168         14,168
                           LASER RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            500,024        500,024
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602102F         MATERIALS.......       126,152        131,152
         ...............      Precision                          [5,000]
                              measuring
                              tools.
   005   0602201F         AEROSPACE              122,831        127,831
                           VEHICLE
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
         ...............      Reusable                           [5,000]
                              Hypersonic
                              vehicle
                              structures
                              development.
   006   0602202F         HUMAN                  111,647        111,647
                           EFFECTIVENESS
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   007   0602203F         AEROSPACE              185,671        190,671
                           PROPULSION.
         ...............      Program                            [5,000]
                              increase.
   008   0602204F         AEROSPACE              155,174        155,174
                           SENSORS.
   009   0602601F         SPACE TECHNOLOGY       117,915        117,915
   010   0602602F         CONVENTIONAL           109,649        109,649
                           MUNITIONS.
   011   0602605F         DIRECTED ENERGY        127,163        127,163
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   012   0602788F         DOMINANT               161,650        161,650
                           INFORMATION
                           SCIENCES AND
                           METHODS.
   013   0602890F         HIGH ENERGY             42,300         42,300
                           LASER RESEARCH.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,260,152      1,275,152
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   014   0603112F         ADVANCED                35,137         45,137
                           MATERIALS FOR
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
         ...............      Metals                            [10,000]
                              Affordabilit
                              y Initiative.
   015   0603199F         SUSTAINMENT             20,636         20,636
                           SCIENCE AND
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (S&T).
   016   0603203F         ADVANCED                40,945         40,945
                           AEROSPACE
                           SENSORS.
   017   0603211F         AEROSPACE              130,950        130,950
                           TECHNOLOGY DEV/
                           DEMO.
   018   0603216F         AEROSPACE               94,594         99,594
                           PROPULSION AND
                           POWER
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Silicon                            [5,000]
                              Carbide for
                              aerospace
                              power
                              application.
   019   0603270F         ELECTRONIC              58,250         58,250
                           COMBAT
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0603401F         ADVANCED                61,593         61,593
                           SPACECRAFT
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   021   0603444F         MAUI SPACE              11,681         11,681
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM (MSSS).
   022   0603456F         HUMAN                   26,492         26,492
                           EFFECTIVENESS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   023   0603601F         CONVENTIONAL           102,009        102,009
                           WEAPONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0603605F         ADVANCED WEAPONS        39,064         39,064
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0603680F         MANUFACTURING           46,344         46,344
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   026   0603788F         BATTLESPACE             58,110         58,110
                           KNOWLEDGE
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            725,805        740,805
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   027   0603260F         INTELLIGENCE             5,598          5,598
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   028   0603438F         SPACE CONTROL            7,534          7,534
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   029   0603742F         COMBAT                  24,418         24,418
                           IDENTIFICATION
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   030   0603790F         NATO RESEARCH            4,333          4,333
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   032   0603830F         SPACE SECURITY          32,399         32,399
                           AND DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM.
   033   0603851F         INTERCONTINENTAL       108,663        108,663
                           BALLISTIC
                           MISSILE--DEM/
                           VAL.
   035   0604015F         LONG RANGE           1,358,309      1,358,309
                           STRIKE--BOMBER.
   036   0604257F         ADVANCED                34,818         34,818
                           TECHNOLOGY AND
                           SENSORS.
   037   0604317F         TECHNOLOGY               3,368          3,368
                           TRANSFER.
   038   0604327F         HARD AND DEEPLY         74,308         74,308
                           BURIED TARGET
                           DEFEAT SYSTEM
                           (HDBTDS)
                           PROGRAM.
   039   0604422F         WEATHER SYSTEM         118,953        113,953
                           FOLLOW-ON.
         ...............      Transfer                          [-5,000]
                              Cloud
                              Characteriza
                              tion and
                              Theater
                              Weather
                              Imagery to
                              NRO.
   040   0604425F         SPACE SITUATION          9,901          9,901
                           AWARENESS
                           SYSTEMS.
   041   0604776F         DEPLOYMENT &            25,890         25,890
                           DISTRIBUTION
                           ENTERPRISE R&D.
   042   0604857F         OPERATIONALLY            7,921         18,421
                           RESPONSIVE
                           SPACE.
         ...............      Program                           [10,500]
                              increase.
   043   0604858F         TECH TRANSITION        347,304        347,304
                           PROGRAM.
   044   0605230F         GROUND BASED           113,919        113,919
                           STRATEGIC
                           DETERRENT.
   046   0207110F         NEXT GENERATION         20,595         20,595
                           AIR DOMINANCE.
   047   0207455F         THREE                   49,491         49,491
                           DIMENSIONAL
                           LONG-RANGE
                           RADAR (3DELRR).
   048   0305164F         NAVSTAR GLOBAL         278,147        278,147
                           POSITIONING
                           SYSTEM (USER
                           EQUIPMENT)
                           (SPACE).
   049   0305236F         COMMON DATA LINK        42,338         42,338
                           EXECUTIVE AGENT
                           (CDL EA).
   050   0306250F         CYBER OPERATIONS       158,002        158,002
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   051   0306415F         ENABLED CYBER           15,842         15,842
                           ACTIVITIES.
   052   0901410F         CONTRACTING              5,782          5,782
                           INFORMATION
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           SYSTEM.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          2,847,833      2,853,333
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   054   0604270F         ELECTRONIC              12,476          9,176
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Improved GPS                      [-3,300]
   055   0604281F         TACTICAL DATA           82,380         82,380
                           NETWORKS
                           ENTERPRISE.
   056   0604287F         PHYSICAL                 8,458          8,458
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT.
   057   0604329F         SMALL DIAMETER          54,838         47,038
                           BOMB (SDB)--EMD.
         ...............      Improved GPS                      [-7,800]
   058   0604421F         COUNTERSPACE            34,394         34,394
                           SYSTEMS.
   059   0604425F         SPACE SITUATION         23,945         23,945
                           AWARENESS
                           SYSTEMS.
   060   0604426F         SPACE FENCE.....       168,364        168,364
   061   0604429F         AIRBORNE                 9,187          9,187
                           ELECTRONIC
                           ATTACK.
   062   0604441F         SPACE BASED            181,966        181,966
                           INFRARED SYSTEM
                           (SBIRS) HIGH
                           EMD.
   063   0604602F         ARMAMENT/               20,312         20,312
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   064   0604604F         SUBMUNITIONS....         2,503          2,503
   065   0604617F         AGILE COMBAT            53,680         53,680
                           SUPPORT.
   066   0604618F         JOINT DIRECT             9,901          9,901
                           ATTACK MUNITION.
   067   0604706F         LIFE SUPPORT             7,520          7,520
                           SYSTEMS.
   068   0604735F         COMBAT TRAINING         77,409         77,409
                           RANGES.
   069   0604800F         F-35--EMD.......       450,467        450,467
   070   0604853F         EVOLVED                296,572        160,000
                           EXPENDABLE
                           LAUNCH VEHICLE
                           PROGRAM
                           (SPACE)--EMD.
         ...............      Launch                           [160,000]
                              System
                              Development.
         ...............      Next                            [-296,572]
                              Generation
                              Launch
                              System
                              Investment.
  070A   0604XXXF         ROCKET                                220,000
                           PROPULSION
                           SYSTEM.
         ...............      Rocket                           [220,000]
                              Propulsion
                              System
                              Replacement
                              of RD-180.
   071   0604932F         LONG RANGE              95,604         95,604
                           STANDOFF WEAPON.
   072   0604933F         ICBM FUZE              189,751        189,751
                           MODERNIZATION.
   073   0605030F         JOINT TACTICAL           1,131          1,131
                           NETWORK CENTER
                           (JTNC).
   074   0605213F         F-22                    70,290         70,290
                           MODERNIZATION
                           INCREMENT 3.2B.
   075   0605214F         GROUND ATTACK              937            937
                           WEAPONS FUZE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   076   0605221F         KC-46...........       261,724        121,724
         ...............      Scope                           [-140,000]
                              Reduction.
   077   0605223F         ADVANCED PILOT          12,377          7,377
                           TRAINING.
         ...............      Early to                          [-5,000]
                              need.
   078   0605229F         CSAR HH-60             319,331        304,331
                           RECAPITALIZATIO
                           N.
         ...............      Forward                          [-15,000]
                              financing.
   080   0605431F         ADVANCED EHF           259,131        229,131
                           MILSATCOM
                           (SPACE).
         ...............      Delayed                          [-30,000]
                              analysis of
                              alternatives.
   081   0605432F         POLAR MILSATCOM         50,815         50,815
                           (SPACE).
   082   0605433F         WIDEBAND GLOBAL         41,632         51,632
                           SATCOM (SPACE).
         ...............      COMSATCOM                         [10,000]
                              pilot
                              program.
   083   0605458F         AIR & SPACE OPS         28,911         28,911
                           CENTER 10.2
                           RDT&E.
   084   0605931F         B-2 DEFENSIVE          315,615        288,915
                           MANAGEMENT
                           SYSTEM.
         ...............      Scope                            [-26,700]
                              Reduction.
   085   0101125F         NUCLEAR WEAPONS        137,909        137,909
                           MODERNIZATION.
   086   0207171F         F-15 EPAWSS.....       256,669        256,669
   087   0207701F         FULL COMBAT             12,051         12,051
                           MISSION
                           TRAINING.
   088   0305176F         COMBAT SURVIVOR         29,253         29,253
                           EVADER LOCATOR.
   089   0307581F         JSTARS RECAP....       128,019        128,019
   090   0401319F         PRESIDENTIAL           351,220        351,220
                           AIRCRAFT
                           REPLACEMENT
                           (PAR).
   091   0701212F         AUTOMATED TEST          19,062         19,062
                           SYSTEMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          4,075,804      3,941,432
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   092   0604256F         THREAT SIMULATOR        21,630         21,630
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   093   0604759F         MAJOR T&E               66,385         66,385
                           INVESTMENT.
   094   0605101F         RAND PROJECT AIR        34,641         34,641
                           FORCE.
   096   0605712F         INITIAL                 11,529         11,529
                           OPERATIONAL
                           TEST &
                           EVALUATION.
   097   0605807F         TEST AND               661,417        661,417
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   098   0605860F         ROCKET SYSTEMS          11,198         11,198
                           LAUNCH PROGRAM
                           (SPACE).
   099   0605864F         SPACE TEST              27,070         27,070
                           PROGRAM (STP).
   100   0605976F         FACILITIES             134,111        134,111
                           RESTORATION AND
                           MODERNIZATION--
                           TEST AND
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   101   0605978F         FACILITIES              28,091         28,091
                           SUSTAINMENT--TE
                           ST AND
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   102   0606017F         REQUIREMENTS            29,100         29,100
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           MATURATION.
   103   0606116F         SPACE TEST AND          18,528         18,528
                           TRAINING RANGE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   104   0606392F         SPACE AND              176,666        176,666
                           MISSILE CENTER
                           (SMC) CIVILIAN
                           WORKFORCE.
   105   0308602F         ENTEPRISE                4,410          4,410
                           INFORMATION
                           SERVICES (EIS).
   106   0702806F         ACQUISITION AND         14,613         14,613
                           MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   107   0804731F         GENERAL SKILL            1,404          1,404
                           TRAINING.
   109   1001004F         INTERNATIONAL            4,784          4,784
                           ACTIVITIES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,245,577      1,245,577
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   110   0603423F         GLOBAL                 393,268        393,268
                           POSITIONING
                           SYSTEM III--
                           OPERATIONAL
                           CONTROL SEGMENT.
   111   0604233F         SPECIALIZED             15,427         15,427
                           UNDERGRADUATE
                           FLIGHT TRAINING.
   112   0604445F         WIDE AREA               46,695         46,695
                           SURVEILLANCE.
   115   0605018F         AF INTEGRATED           10,368         10,368
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           PAY SYSTEM (AF-
                           IPPS).
   116   0605024F         ANTI-TAMPER             31,952         31,952
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           EXECUTIVE
                           AGENCY.
   117   0605117F         FOREIGN MATERIEL        42,960         42,960
                           ACQUISITION AND
                           EXPLOITATION.
   118   0605278F         HC/MC-130 RECAP         13,987         13,987
                           RDT&E.
   119   0101113F         B-52 SQUADRONS..        78,267         78,267
   120   0101122F         AIR-LAUNCHED               453            453
                           CRUISE MISSILE
                           (ALCM).
   121   0101126F         B-1B SQUADRONS..         5,830          5,830
   122   0101127F         B-2 SQUADRONS...       152,458        152,458
   123   0101213F         MINUTEMAN              182,958        182,958
                           SQUADRONS.
   124   0101313F         STRAT WAR               39,148         39,148
                           PLANNING
                           SYSTEM--USSTRAT
                           COM.
   126   0101316F         WORLDWIDE JOINT          6,042          6,042
                           STRATEGIC
                           COMMUNICATIONS.
   128   0102110F         UH-1N                   14,116         14,116
                           REPLACEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   129   0102326F         REGION/SECTOR           10,868         10,868
                           OPERATION
                           CONTROL CENTER
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   130   0105921F         SERVICE SUPPORT          8,674          8,674
                           TO STRATCOM--
                           SPACE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   131   0205219F         MQ-9 UAV........       151,373        161,373
         ...............      Auto take-                        [10,000]
                              off and
                              landing
                              capability.
   133   0207131F         A-10 SQUADRONS..        14,853         14,853
   134   0207133F         F-16 SQUADRONS..       132,795        132,795
   135   0207134F         F-15E SQUADRONS.       356,717        356,717
   136   0207136F         MANNED                  14,773         14,773
                           DESTRUCTIVE
                           SUPPRESSION.
   137   0207138F         F-22A SQUADRONS.       387,564        379,464
         ...............      Improved GPS                      [-8,100]
   138   0207142F         F-35 SQUADRONS..       153,045        147,545
         ...............      Follow-on                         [-5,500]
                              development-
                              -excess
                              funds.
   139   0207161F         TACTICAL AIM            52,898         52,898
                           MISSILES.
   140   0207163F         ADVANCED MEDIUM         62,470         62,470
                           RANGE AIR-TO-
                           AIR MISSILE
                           (AMRAAM).
   143   0207227F         COMBAT RESCUE--            362            362
                           PARARESCUE.
   144   0207247F         AF TENCAP.......        28,413         28,413
   145   0207249F         PRECISION ATTACK           649            649
                           SYSTEMS
                           PROCUREMENT.
   146   0207253F         COMPASS CALL....        13,723         50,823
         ...............      Compass Call                      [37,100]
                              Program
                              Restructure.
   147   0207268F         AIRCRAFT ENGINE        109,859        109,859
                           COMPONENT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   148   0207325F         JOINT AIR-TO-           30,002         30,002
                           SURFACE
                           STANDOFF
                           MISSILE (JASSM).
   149   0207410F         AIR & SPACE             37,621         25,343
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (AOC).
         ...............      Weapon                           [-12,278]
                              system
                              modification.
   150   0207412F         CONTROL AND             13,292         13,292
                           REPORTING
                           CENTER (CRC).
   151   0207417F         AIRBORNE WARNING        86,644         86,644
                           AND CONTROL
                           SYSTEM (AWACS).
   152   0207418F         TACTICAL                 2,442          2,442
                           AIRBORNE
                           CONTROL SYSTEMS.
   154   0207431F         COMBAT AIR              10,911         15,911
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           SYSTEM
                           ACTIVITIES.
         ...............      Geospatial                         [5,000]
                              software
                              development.
   155   0207444F         TACTICAL AIR            11,843         11,843
                           CONTROL PARTY-
                           MOD.
   156   0207448F         C2ISR TACTICAL           1,515          1,515
                           DATA LINK.
   157   0207452F         DCAPES..........        14,979         14,979
   158   0207590F         SEEK EAGLE......        25,308         25,308
   159   0207601F         USAF MODELING           16,666         16,666
                           AND SIMULATION.
   160   0207605F         WARGAMING AND            4,245          4,245
                           SIMULATION
                           CENTERS.
   161   0207697F         DISTRIBUTED              3,886          3,886
                           TRAINING AND
                           EXERCISES.
   162   0208006F         MISSION PLANNING        71,785         71,785
                           SYSTEMS.
   164   0208087F         AF OFFENSIVE            25,025         25,025
                           CYBERSPACE
                           OPERATIONS.
   165   0208088F         AF DEFENSIVE            29,439         29,439
                           CYBERSPACE
                           OPERATIONS.
   168   0301017F         GLOBAL SENSOR            3,470          3,470
                           INTEGRATED ON
                           NETWORK (GSIN).
   169   0301112F         NUCLEAR PLANNING         4,060          4,060
                           AND EXECUTION
                           SYSTEM (NPES).
   175   0301400F         SPACE                   13,880         13,880
                           SUPERIORITY
                           INTELLIGENCE.
   176   0302015F         E-4B NATIONAL           30,948         30,948
                           AIRBORNE
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (NAOC).
   177   0303001F         FAMILY OF               42,378         42,378
                           ADVANCED BLOS
                           TERMINALS (FAB-
                           T).
   178   0303131F         MINIMUM                 47,471         47,471
                           ESSENTIAL
                           EMERGENCY
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           NETWORK (MEECN).
   179   0303140F         INFORMATION             46,388         46,388
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   180   0303141F         GLOBAL COMBAT               52             52
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   181   0303142F         GLOBAL FORCE             2,099          2,099
                           MANAGEMENT--DAT
                           A INITIATIVE.
   184   0304260F         AIRBORNE SIGINT         90,762         90,762
                           ENTERPRISE.
   187   0305099F         GLOBAL AIR               4,354          4,354
                           TRAFFIC
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (GATM).
   188   0305110F         SATELLITE               15,624         15,624
                           CONTROL NETWORK
                           (SPACE).
   189   0305111F         WEATHER SERVICE.        19,974         22,974
         ...............      Commercial                         [3,000]
                              Weather
                              Pilot
                              Program.
   190   0305114F         AIR TRAFFIC              9,770          9,770
                           CONTROL,
                           APPROACH, AND
                           LANDING SYSTEM
                           (ATCALS).
   191   0305116F         AERIAL TARGETS..         3,051          3,051
   194   0305128F         SECURITY AND               405            405
                           INVESTIGATIVE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   195   0305145F         ARMS CONTROL             4,844          4,844
                           IMPLEMENTATION.
   196   0305146F         DEFENSE JOINT              339            339
                           COUNTERINTELLIG
                           ENCE ACTIVITIES.
   199   0305173F         SPACE AND                3,989          3,989
                           MISSILE TEST
                           AND EVALUATION
                           CENTER.
   200   0305174F         SPACE                    3,070          3,070
                           INNOVATION,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           RAPID
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   201   0305179F         INTEGRATED               8,833          8,833
                           BROADCAST
                           SERVICE (IBS).
   202   0305182F         SPACELIFT RANGE         11,867         11,867
                           SYSTEM (SPACE).
   203   0305202F         DRAGON U-2......        37,217         37,217
   205   0305206F         AIRBORNE                 3,841         18,841
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
         ...............      Wide area                         [15,000]
                              motion
                              imagery.
   206   0305207F         MANNED                  20,975         20,975
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
   207   0305208F         DISTRIBUTED             18,902         18,902
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   208   0305220F         RQ-4 UAV........       256,307        256,307
   209   0305221F         NETWORK-CENTRIC         22,610         22,610
                           COLLABORATIVE
                           TARGETING.
   211   0305238F         NATO AGS........        38,904         38,904
   212   0305240F         SUPPORT TO DCGS         23,084         23,084
                           ENTERPRISE.
   213   0305258F         ADVANCED               116,143        116,143
                           EVALUATION
                           PROGRAM.
   214   0305265F         GPS III SPACE          141,888        141,888
                           SEGMENT.
   215   0305600F         INTERNATIONAL            2,360          2,360
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           TECHNOLOGY AND
                           ARCHITECTURES.
   216   0305614F         JSPOC MISSION           72,889         72,889
                           SYSTEM.
   217   0305881F         RAPID CYBER              4,280          4,280
                           ACQUISITION.
   218   0305906F         NCMC--TW/AA              4,951          4,951
                           SYSTEM.
   219   0305913F         NUDET DETECTION         21,093         21,093
                           SYSTEM (SPACE).
   220   0305940F         SPACE SITUATION         35,002         35,002
                           AWARENESS
                           OPERATIONS.
   222   0308699F         SHARED EARLY             6,366          6,366
                           WARNING (SEW).
   223   0401115F         C-130 AIRLIFT           15,599         15,599
                           SQUADRON.
   224   0401119F         C-5 AIRLIFT             66,146         66,146
                           SQUADRONS (IF).
   225   0401130F         C-17 AIRCRAFT           12,430         12,430
                           (IF).
   226   0401132F         C-130J PROGRAM..        16,776         16,776
   227   0401134F         LARGE AIRCRAFT           5,166          5,166
                           IR
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (LAIRCM).
   229   0401314F         OPERATIONAL             13,817         13,817
                           SUPPORT AIRLIFT.
   230   0401318F         CV-22...........        16,702         16,702
   231   0408011F         SPECIAL TACTICS /        7,164          7,164
                            COMBAT CONTROL.
   232   0702207F         DEPOT                    1,518          1,518
                           MAINTENANCE
                           (NON-IF).
   233   0708610F         LOGISTICS               61,676         61,676
                           INFORMATION
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (LOGIT).
   234   0708611F         SUPPORT SYSTEMS          9,128          9,128
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   235   0804743F         OTHER FLIGHT             1,653          1,653
                           TRAINING.
   236   0808716F         OTHER PERSONNEL             57             57
                           ACTIVITIES.
   237   0901202F         JOINT PERSONNEL          3,663          3,663
                           RECOVERY AGENCY.
   238   0901218F         CIVILIAN                 3,735          3,735
                           COMPENSATION
                           PROGRAM.
   239   0901220F         PERSONNEL                5,157          5,157
                           ADMINISTRATION.
   240   0901226F         AIR FORCE                1,523          1,523
                           STUDIES AND
                           ANALYSIS AGENCY.
   242   0901538F         FINANCIAL               10,581         10,581
                           MANAGEMENT
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
  242A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED          13,091,557     13,091,557
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL         17,457,056     17,501,278
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          28,112,251     28,057,601
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, AF.
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL, DW
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601000BR        DTRA BASIC              35,436         35,436
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVE.
   002   0601101E         DEFENSE RESEARCH       362,297        362,297
                           SCIENCES.
   003   0601110D8Z       BASIC RESEARCH          36,654         36,654
                           INITIATIVES.
   004   0601117E         BASIC                   57,791         57,791
                           OPERATIONAL
                           MEDICAL
                           RESEARCH
                           SCIENCE.
   005   0601120D8Z       NATIONAL DEFENSE        69,345         79,345
                           EDUCATION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      K-12 STEM                         [10,000]
                              program
                              increase.
   006   0601228D8Z       HISTORICALLY            23,572         33,572
                           BLACK COLLEGES
                           AND
                           UNIVERSITIES/
                           MINORITY
                           INSTITUTIONS.
         ...............      Program                           [10,000]
                              increase.
   007   0601384BP        CHEMICAL AND            44,800         44,800
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            629,895        649,895
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   008   0602000D8Z       JOINT MUNITIONS         17,745         17,745
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   009   0602115E         BIOMEDICAL             115,213        115,213
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   010   0602230D8Z       DEFENSE                 30,000              0
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           INNOVATION.
         ...............      Program                          [-30,000]
                              decrease.
   011   0602234D8Z       LINCOLN                 48,269         48,269
                           LABORATORY
                           RESEARCH
                           PROGRAM.
   012   0602251D8Z       APPLIED RESEARCH        42,206         42,206
                           FOR THE
                           ADVANCEMENT OF
                           S&T PRIORITIES.
   013   0602303E         INFORMATION &          353,635        353,635
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   014   0602383E         BIOLOGICAL              21,250         21,250
                           WARFARE DEFENSE.
   015   0602384BP        CHEMICAL AND           188,715        188,715
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
   016   0602668D8Z       CYBER SECURITY          12,183         12,183
                           RESEARCH.
   017   0602702E         TACTICAL               313,843        313,843
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0602715E         MATERIALS AND          220,456        214,456
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Program                           [-6,000]
                              reduction.
   019   0602716E         ELECTRONICS            221,911        221,911
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0602718BR        WEAPONS OF MASS        154,857        154,857
                           DESTRUCTION
                           DEFEAT
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   021   0602751D8Z       SOFTWARE                 8,420          8,420
                           ENGINEERING
                           INSTITUTE (SEI)
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   022   1160401BB        SOF TECHNOLOGY          37,820         37,820
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,786,523      1,750,523
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   023   0603000D8Z       JOINT MUNITIONS         23,902         23,902
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0603122D8Z       COMBATING               73,002         73,002
                           TERRORISM
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           SUPPORT.
   026   0603133D8Z       FOREIGN                 19,343         29,343
                           COMPARATIVE
                           TESTING.
         ...............      Anti-tunnel                       [10,000]
                              defense
                              systems.
   027   0603160BR        COUNTERPROLIFERA       266,444        266,444
                           TION
                           INITIATIVES--PR
                           OLIFERATION
                           PREVENTION AND
                           DEFEAT.
   028   0603176C         ADVANCED                17,880         17,880
                           CONCEPTS AND
                           PERFORMANCE
                           ASSESSMENT.
   030   0603178C         WEAPONS                 71,843         71,843
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   031   0603179C         ADVANCED C4ISR..         3,626          3,626
   032   0603180C         ADVANCED                23,433         23,433
                           RESEARCH.
   033   0603225D8Z       JOINT DOD-DOE           17,256         17,256
                           MUNITIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   035   0603274C         SPECIAL PROGRAM--       83,745         11,795
                           MDA TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Program                          [-71,950]
                              reduction.
   036   0603286E         ADVANCED               182,327        182,327
                           AEROSPACE
                           SYSTEMS.
   037   0603287E         SPACE PROGRAMS         175,240        165,240
                           AND TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Program                          [-10,000]
                              reduction.
   038   0603288D8Z       ANALYTIC                12,048         12,048
                           ASSESSMENTS.
   039   0603289D8Z       ADVANCED                57,020         57,020
                           INNOVATIVE
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           CONCEPTS.
   041   0603375D8Z       TECHNOLOGY              39,923         19,923
                           INNOVATION.
         ...............      Program                          [-20,000]
                              decrease.
   042   0603384BP        CHEMICAL AND           127,941        127,941
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM--ADVANC
                           ED DEVELOPMENT.
   043   0603527D8Z       RETRACT LARCH...       181,977        181,977
   044   0603618D8Z       JOINT ELECTRONIC        22,030         22,030
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   045   0603648D8Z       JOINT CAPABILITY       148,184        132,184
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
         ...............      Program                          [-16,000]
                              decrease.
   046   0603662D8Z       NETWORKED                9,331          9,331
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           CAPABILITIES.
   047   0603680D8Z       DEFENSE-WIDE           158,398        158,398
                           MANUFACTURING
                           SCIENCE AND
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   048   0603680S         MANUFACTURING           31,259         31,259
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   049   0603699D8Z       EMERGING                49,895         49,895
                           CAPABILITIES
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   050   0603712S         GENERIC                 11,011         11,011
                           LOGISTICS R&D
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   052   0603716D8Z       STRATEGIC               65,078         65,078
                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                           RESEARCH
                           PROGRAM.
   053   0603720S         MICROELECTRONICS        97,826         97,826
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           SUPPORT.
   054   0603727D8Z       JOINT                    7,848          5,348
                           WARFIGHTING
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Prior year                        [-2,500]
                              carryover.
   055   0603739E         ADVANCED                49,807         49,807
                           ELECTRONICS
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   056   0603760E         COMMAND, CONTROL       155,081        155,081
                           AND
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS.
   057   0603766E         NETWORK-CENTRIC        428,894        428,894
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   058   0603767E         SENSOR                 241,288        241,288
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   060   0603781D8Z       SOFTWARE                14,264         14,264
                           ENGINEERING
                           INSTITUTE.
   061   0603826D8Z       QUICK REACTION          74,943         72,943
                           SPECIAL
                           PROJECTS.
         ...............      QRSP........                      [-2,000]
   063   0603833D8Z       ENGINEERING             17,659         17,659
                           SCIENCE &
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   064   0603941D8Z       TEST &                  87,135         87,135
                           EVALUATION
                           SCIENCE &
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   065   0604055D8Z       OPERATIONAL             37,329         41,329
                           ENERGY
                           CAPABILITY
                           IMPROVEMENT.
         ...............      Competitive                        [4,000]
                              technology
                              investment.
   066   0303310D8Z       CWMD SYSTEMS....        44,836         21,236
         ...............      Constellatio                     [-23,600]
                              n program
                              reduction.
   067   1160402BB        SOF ADVANCED            61,620         61,620
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,190,666      3,058,616
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           PROTOTYPES
   068   0603161D8Z       NUCLEAR AND             28,498         28,498
                           CONVENTIONAL
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT RDT&E
                           ADC&P.
   069   0603600D8Z       WALKOFF.........        89,643         89,643
   071   0603821D8Z       ACQUISITION              2,136          2,136
                           ENTERPRISE DATA
                           & INFORMATION
                           SERVICES.
   072   0603851D8Z       ENVIRONMENTAL           52,491         52,491
                           SECURITY
                           TECHNICAL
                           CERTIFICATION
                           PROGRAM.
   073   0603881C         BALLISTIC              206,834        206,834
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TERMINAL
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT.
   074   0603882C         BALLISTIC              862,080        862,080
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           MIDCOURSE
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT.
   075   0603884BP        CHEMICAL AND           138,187        138,187
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM--DEM/
                           VAL.
   076   0603884C         BALLISTIC              230,077        230,077
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SENSORS.
   077   0603890C         BMD ENABLING           401,594        401,594
                           PROGRAMS.
   078   0603891C         SPECIAL                321,607        304,707
                           PROGRAMS--MDA.
         ...............      Program                          [-16,900]
                              reduction.
   079   0603892C         AEGIS BMD.......       959,066        939,066
         ...............      SM-3 IIA                         [-20,000]
                              development
                              excess
                              growth.
   080   0603893C         SPACE TRACKING &        32,129         32,129
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM.
   081   0603895C         BALLISTIC               20,690         20,690
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SYSTEM SPACE
                           PROGRAMS.
   082   0603896C         BALLISTIC              439,617        443,517
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL, BATTLE
                           MANAGEMENT AND
                           COMMUNICATI.
         ...............      Post                               [3,900]
                              Intercept
                              Assessment
                              Acceleration.
   083   0603898C         BALLISTIC               47,776         47,776
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           JOINT
                           WARFIGHTER
                           SUPPORT.
   084   0603904C         MISSILE DEFENSE         54,750         54,750
                           INTEGRATION &
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (MDIOC).
   085   0603906C         REGARDING TRENCH         8,785          8,785
   086   0603907C         SEA BASED X-BAND        68,787         68,787
                           RADAR (SBX).
   087   0603913C         ISRAELI                103,835        268,735
                           COOPERATIVE
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Increase for                     [164,900]
                              Cooperative
                              Development
                              Programs
                              subject to
                              Title XVI.
   088   0603914C         BALLISTIC              293,441        293,441
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TEST.
   089   0603915C         BALLISTIC              563,576        563,576
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TARGETS.
   090   0603920D8Z       HUMANITARIAN            10,007         10,007
                           DEMINING.
   091   0603923D8Z       COALITION               10,126         10,126
                           WARFARE.
   092   0604016D8Z       DEPARTMENT OF            3,893          8,893
                           DEFENSE
                           CORROSION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Corrosion                          [5,000]
                              prevention.
   093   0604115C         TECHNOLOGY              90,266         90,266
                           MATURATION
                           INITIATIVES.
   094   0604132D8Z       MISSILE DEFEAT          45,000         45,000
                           PROJECT.
   095   0604250D8Z       ADVANCED               844,870        829,870
                           INNOVATIVE
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
         ...............      SCO.........                     [-15,000]
   097   0604400D8Z       DEPARTMENT OF            3,320          3,320
                           DEFENSE (DOD)
                           UNMANNED SYSTEM
                           COMMON
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   099   0604682D8Z       WARGAMING AND            4,000          4,000
                           SUPPORT FOR
                           STRATEGIC
                           ANALYSIS (SSA).
   102   0604826J         JOINT C5                23,642         23,642
                           CAPABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y ASSESSMENTS.
   104   0604873C         LONG RANGE             162,012        162,012
                           DISCRIMINATION
                           RADAR (LRDR).
   105   0604874C         IMPROVED               274,148        274,148
                           HOMELAND
                           DEFENSE
                           INTERCEPTORS.
   106   0604876C         BALLISTIC               63,444         63,444
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TERMINAL
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT
                           TEST.
   107   0604878C         AEGIS BMD TEST..        95,012         95,012
   108   0604879C         BALLISTIC               83,250         83,250
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SENSOR TEST.
   109   0604880C         LAND-BASED SM-3         43,293         43,293
                           (LBSM3).
   110   0604881C         AEGIS SM-3 BLOCK       106,038        106,038
                           IIA CO-
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   111   0604887C         BALLISTIC               56,481         56,481
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           MIDCOURSE
                           SEGMENT TEST.
   112   0604894C         MULTI-OBJECT            71,513         71,513
                           KILL VEHICLE.
   114   0303191D8Z       JOINT                    2,636          2,636
                           ELECTROMAGNETIC
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (JET) PROGRAM.
   115   0305103C         CYBER SECURITY             969            969
                           INITIATIVE.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          6,919,519      7,041,419
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             AND
                             PROTOTYPES.
  115A   0604XXXD         WEATHER SYSTEM                          5,000
                           FOLLOW-ON.
         ...............      Transfer                           [5,000]
                              Cloud
                              Characteriza
                              tion and
                              Theater
                              Weather
                              Imagery from
                              USAF.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL                  0          5,000
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION
   116   0604161D8Z       NUCLEAR AND             10,324         10,324
                           CONVENTIONAL
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT RDT&E
                           SDD.
   117   0604165D8Z       PROMPT GLOBAL          181,303        181,303
                           STRIKE
                           CAPABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   118   0604384BP        CHEMICAL AND           266,231        266,231
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM--EMD.
   120   0604771D8Z       JOINT TACTICAL          16,288         16,288
                           INFORMATION
                           DISTRIBUTION
                           SYSTEM (JTIDS).
   121   0605000BR        WEAPONS OF MASS          4,568          4,568
                           DESTRUCTION
                           DEFEAT
                           CAPABILITIES.
   122   0605013BL        INFORMATION             11,505         11,505
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   123   0605021SE        HOMELAND                 1,658          1,658
                           PERSONNEL
                           SECURITY
                           INITIATIVE.
   124   0605022D8Z       DEFENSE                  2,920          2,920
                           EXPORTABILITY
                           PROGRAM.
   126   0605070S         DOD ENTERPRISE          12,631         12,631
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION.
   128   0605080S         DEFENSE AGENCY          26,657         26,657
                           INTIATIVES
                           (DAI)--FINANCIA
                           L SYSTEM.
   129   0605090S         DEFENSE RETIRED          4,949          4,949
                           AND ANNUITANT
                           PAY SYSTEM
                           (DRAS).
   130   0605140D8Z       TRUSTED FOUNDRY.        69,000         69,000
   131   0605210D8Z       DEFENSE-WIDE             9,881          9,881
                           ELECTRONIC
                           PROCUREMENT
                           CAPABILITIES.
   132   0303141K         GLOBAL COMBAT            7,600          7,600
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   133   0305304D8Z       DOD ENTERPRISE           2,703          2,703
                           ENERGY
                           INFORMATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (EEIM).
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            628,218        628,218
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             AND
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   134   0604774D8Z       DEFENSE                  4,678          4,678
                           READINESS
                           REPORTING
                           SYSTEM (DRRS).
   135   0604875D8Z       JOINT SYSTEMS            4,499          4,499
                           ARCHITECTURE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   136   0604940D8Z       CENTRAL TEST AND       219,199        219,199
                           EVALUATION
                           INVESTMENT
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           (CTEIP).
   137   0604942D8Z       ASSESSMENTS AND         28,706         28,706
                           EVALUATIONS.
   138   0605001E         MISSION SUPPORT.        69,244         69,244
   139   0605100D8Z       JOINT MISSION           87,080         67,080
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           TEST CAPABILITY
                           (JMETC).
         ...............      Prior year                       [-20,000]
                              carryover
                              and minimize
                              growth.
   140   0605104D8Z       TECHNICAL               23,069         23,069
                           STUDIES,
                           SUPPORT AND
                           ANALYSIS.
   142   0605126J         JOINT INTEGRATED        32,759         32,759
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE
                           ORGANIZATION
                           (JIAMDO).
   144   0605142D8Z       SYSTEMS                 32,429         32,429
                           ENGINEERING.
   145   0605151D8Z       STUDIES AND              3,797          3,797
                           ANALYSIS
                           SUPPORT--OSD.
   146   0605161D8Z       NUCLEAR MATTERS-         5,302          5,302
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY.
   147   0605170D8Z       SUPPORT TO               7,246          7,246
                           NETWORKS AND
                           INFORMATION
                           INTEGRATION.
   148   0605200D8Z       GENERAL SUPPORT          1,874          1,874
                           TO USD
                           (INTELLIGENCE).
   149   0605384BP        CHEMICAL AND            85,754         85,754
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
   158   0605790D8Z       SMALL BUSINESS           2,187          2,187
                           INNOVATION
                           RESEARCH (SBIR)/
                            SMALL BUSINESS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           TRANSFER.
   159   0605798D8Z       DEFENSE                 22,650         22,650
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           ANALYSIS.
   160   0605801KA        DEFENSE                 43,834         43,834
                           TECHNICAL
                           INFORMATION
                           CENTER (DTIC).
   161   0605803SE        R&D IN SUPPORT          22,240         22,240
                           OF DOD
                           ENLISTMENT,
                           TESTING AND
                           EVALUATION.
   162   0605804D8Z       DEVELOPMENT TEST        19,541         23,541
                           AND EVALUATION.
         ...............      Program                            [4,000]
                              increase.
   163   0605898E         MANAGEMENT HQ--          4,759          4,759
                           R&D.
   164   0605998KA        MANAGEMENT HQ--          4,400          4,400
                           DEFENSE
                           TECHNICAL
                           INFORMATION
                           CENTER (DTIC).
   165   0606100D8Z       BUDGET AND               4,014          4,014
                           PROGRAM
                           ASSESSMENTS.
   166   0203345D8Z       DEFENSE                  2,072          2,072
                           OPERATIONS
                           SECURITY
                           INITIATIVE
                           (DOSI).
   167   0204571J         JOINT STAFF              7,464          7,464
                           ANALYTICAL
                           SUPPORT.
   170   0303166J         SUPPORT TO                 857            857
                           INFORMATION
                           OPERATIONS (IO)
                           CAPABILITIES.
   171   0303260D8Z       DEFENSE MILITARY           916            916
                           DECEPTION
                           PROGRAM OFFICE
                           (DMDPO).
   172   0305172K         COMBINED                15,336         15,336
                           ADVANCED
                           APPLICATIONS.
   173   0305193D8Z       CYBER                   18,523         13,523
                           INTELLIGENCE.
         ...............      Program                           [-5,000]
                              decrease.
   175   0804767D8Z       COCOM EXERCISE          34,384         34,384
                           ENGAGEMENT AND
                           TRAINING
                           TRANSFORMATION
                           (CE2T2)--MHA.
   176   0901598C         MANAGEMENT HQ--         31,160         31,160
                           MDA.
   179   0903235D8W       JOINT SERVICE              827            827
                           PROVIDER (JSP).
  180A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED              56,799         56,799
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            897,599        876,599
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT
   181   0604130V         ENTERPRISE               4,241          4,241
                           SECURITY SYSTEM
                           (ESS).
   182   0605127T         REGIONAL                 1,424          1,424
                           INTERNATIONAL
                           OUTREACH (RIO)
                           AND PARTNERSHIP
                           FOR PEACE
                           INFORMATION
                           MANA.
   183   0605147T         OVERSEAS                   287            287
                           HUMANITARIAN
                           ASSISTANCE
                           SHARED
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEM (OHASIS).
   184   0607210D8Z       INDUSTRIAL BASE         16,195         16,195
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           SUSTAINMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   185   0607310D8Z       CWMD SYSTEMS:            4,194          4,194
                           OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   186   0607327T         GLOBAL THEATER           7,861          7,861
                           SECURITY
                           COOPERATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEMS (G-
                           TSCMIS).
   187   0607384BP        CHEMICAL AND            33,361         33,361
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           (OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT).
   189   0208043J         PLANNING AND             3,038          3,038
                           DECISION AID
                           SYSTEM (PDAS).
   190   0208045K         C4I                     57,501         57,501
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y.
   192   0301144K         JOINT/ALLIED             5,935          5,935
                           COALITION
                           INFORMATION
                           SHARING.
   196   0302016K         NATIONAL                   575            575
                           MILITARY
                           COMMAND SYSTEM-
                           WIDE SUPPORT.
   197   0302019K         DEFENSE INFO            18,041         18,041
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           INTEGRATION.
   198   0303126K         LONG-HAUL               13,994         13,994
                           COMMUNICATIONS-
                           -DCS.
   199   0303131K         MINIMUM                 12,206         12,206
                           ESSENTIAL
                           EMERGENCY
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           NETWORK (MEECN).
   200   0303135G         PUBLIC KEY              34,314         34,314
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           (PKI).
   201   0303136G         KEY MANAGEMENT          36,602         36,602
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           (KMI).
   202   0303140D8Z       INFORMATION              8,876          8,876
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   203   0303140G         INFORMATION            159,068        161,068
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      SHARKSEER                          [2,000]
                              Program
                              Increase.
   204   0303150K         GLOBAL COMMAND          24,438         24,438
                           AND CONTROL
                           SYSTEM.
   205   0303153K         DEFENSE SPECTRUM        13,197         13,197
                           ORGANIZATION.
   207   0303228K         JOINT                    2,789          2,789
                           INFORMATION
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           (JIE).
   209   0303430K         FEDERAL                 75,000         75,000
                           INVESTIGATIVE
                           SERVICES
                           INFORMATION
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   210   0303610K         TELEPORT PROGRAM           657            657
   215   0305103K         CYBER SECURITY           1,553          1,553
                           INITIATIVE.
   220   0305186D8Z       POLICY R&D               6,204          4,204
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Program                           [-2,000]
                              decrease.
   221   0305199D8Z       NET CENTRICITY..        17,971         17,971
   223   0305208BB        DISTRIBUTED              5,415          5,415
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   226   0305208K         DISTRIBUTED              3,030          3,030
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   229   0305327V         INSIDER THREAT..         5,034          5,034
   230   0305387D8Z       HOMELAND DEFENSE         2,037          2,037
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           TRANSFER
                           PROGRAM.
   236   0307577D8Z       INTELLIGENCE            13,800         13,800
                           MISSION DATA
                           (IMD).
   238   0708012S         PACIFIC DISASTER         1,754          1,754
                           CENTERS.
   239   0708047S         DEFENSE PROPERTY         2,154          2,154
                           ACCOUNTABILITY
                           SYSTEM.
   240   0902298J         MANAGEMENT HQ--            826            826
                           OJCS.
   241   1105219BB        MQ-9 UAV........        17,804         17,804
   244   1160403BB        AVIATION SYSTEMS       159,143        159,143
   245   1160405BB        INTELLIGENCE             7,958          7,958
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   246   1160408BB        OPERATIONAL             64,895         64,895
                           ENHANCEMENTS.
   247   1160431BB        WARRIOR SYSTEMS.        44,885         44,885
   248   1160432BB        SPECIAL PROGRAMS         1,949          1,949
   249   1160434BB        UNMANNED ISR....        22,117         22,117
   250   1160480BB        SOF TACTICAL             3,316          3,316
                           VEHICLES.
   251   1160483BB        MARITIME SYSTEMS        54,577         54,577
   252   1160489BB        GLOBAL VIDEO             3,841          3,841
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   253   1160490BB        OPERATIONAL             11,834         11,834
                           ENHANCEMENTS
                           INTELLIGENCE.
  253A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED           3,270,515      3,270,515
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          4,256,406      4,256,406
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          18,308,826     18,266,676
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, DW.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL TEST
                           & EVAL, DEFENSE
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   001   0605118OTE       OPERATIONAL TEST        78,047         78,047
                           AND EVALUATION.
   002   0605131OTE       LIVE FIRE TEST          48,316         48,316
                           AND EVALUATION.
   003   0605814OTE       OPERATIONAL TEST        52,631         52,631
                           ACTIVITIES AND
                           ANALYSES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            178,994        178,994
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL             178,994        178,994
                               OPERATIONAL
                               TEST &
                               EVAL,
                               DEFENSE.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL RDT&E    71,391,771     71,110,624
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS
            CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Program Element                       FY 2017      Conference
  Line                           Item          Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   055   0603308A          ARMY SPACE              9,375          9,375
                            SYSTEMS
                            INTEGRATION.
         ................      SUBTOTAL            9,375          9,375
                               ADVANCED
                               COMPONENT
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               & PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION
   091   0604741A          AIR DEFENSE            78,700         78,700
                            COMMAND,
                            CONTROL AND
                            INTELLIGENCE--E
                            NG DEV.
   114   0605032A          TRACTOR TIRE....       10,000         10,000
   117   0605035A          COMMON INFRARED        10,900         10,900
                            COUNTERMEASURES
                            (CIRCM).
   119   0605041A          DEFENSIVE CYBER        50,500         50,500
                            TOOL
                            DEVELOPMENT.
   122   0605051A          AIRCRAFT               73,110         73,110
                            SURVIVABILITY
                            DEVELOPMENT.
         ................      SUBTOTAL          223,210        223,210
                               SYSTEM
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               &
                               DEMONSTRATIO
                               N.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
   208   0307665A          BIOMETRICS              7,104          7,104
                            ENABLED
                            INTELLIGENCE.
         ................      SUBTOTAL            7,104          7,104
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL            239,689        239,689
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, ARMY.
         ................
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   038   0603527N          RETRACT LARCH...        3,907          3,907
         ................      SUBTOTAL            3,907          3,907
                               ADVANCED
                               COMPONENT
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               & PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
  245A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             36,426         36,426
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL           36,426         36,426
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             40,333         40,333
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, NAVY.
         ................
         ................  SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION
   058   0604421F          COUNTERSPACE              425            425
                            SYSTEMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL              425            425
                               SYSTEM
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               &
                               DEMONSTRATIO
                               N.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
   200   0305174F          SPACE                   4,715          4,715
                            INNOVATION,
                            INTEGRATION AND
                            RAPID
                            TECHNOLOGY
                            DEVELOPMENT.
  242A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             27,765         27,765
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL           32,480         32,480
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             32,905         32,905
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, AF.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT
  253A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED            165,419        165,419
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL          165,419        165,419
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEM
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL            165,419        165,419
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, DW.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL RDT&E      478,346        478,346
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4203. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR BASE REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4203. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS
  CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR BASE OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Program Element                       FY 2017      Conference
  Line                           Item          Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            ARMY
         ................  SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            DEMONSTRATION
   090   0604715A          NON-SYSTEM                 33             33
                            TRAINING
                            DEVICES--ENG
                            DEV.
         ................      SUBTOTAL               33             33
                               SYSTEM
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               &
                               DEMONSTRATIO
                               N.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL                 33             33
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, ARMY.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   078   0604272N          TACTICAL AIR           37,990         37,990
                            DIRECTIONAL
                            INFRARED
                            COUNTERMEASURES
                            (TADIRCM).
         ................      SUBTOTAL           37,990         37,990
                               ADVANCED
                               COMPONENT
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               & PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             37,990         37,990
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, NAVY.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL RDT&E       38,023         38,023
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
     SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
  Line                Item                  Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................         791,450         841,450
             Home station training                              [50,000]
             unfunded requirement......
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          68,373          68,373
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         438,823         438,823
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         660,258         660,258
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         863,928         863,928
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............       1,360,597       1,461,097
             Eleventh CAB..............                         [32,500]
             Flying hour program                                [68,000]
             unfunded requirement......
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS           3,086,443       3,086,443
          SUPPORT......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.         439,488         439,488
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.       1,013,452       1,032,852
             Depot maintenance unfunded                         [19,400]
             requirement...............
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       7,816,343       7,838,443
             Eleventh CAB Support......                         [22,100]
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              2,234,546       2,319,946
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [85,400]
             shortfalls................
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL             452,105         452,105
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   130   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              155,658         155,658
          OPERATIONS...................
   170   COMBATANT COMMANDS DIRECT              441,143         441,143
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      19,822,607      20,100,007
 
         MOBILIZATION
   180   STRATEGIC MOBILITY............         336,329         336,329
   190   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS.....         390,848         415,848
             Program increase..........                         [25,000]
   200   INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS.......           7,401           7,401
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         734,578         759,578
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   210   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         131,942         131,942
   220   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          47,846          47,846
   230   ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING.....          45,419          45,419
   240   SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS                482,747         482,747
          TRAINING CORPS...............
   250   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         921,025         927,525
             Defense Foreign Language                            [6,500]
             Program...................
   260   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         902,845         945,779
             Graduate pilot training                             [5,405]
             unfunded requirement......
             School Air OPTEMPO                                 [31,125]
             unfunded requirement......
             Train full ARPINT load of                           [6,404]
             990.......................
   270   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               216,583         248,183
          EDUCATION....................
             Military Training and PME.                         [31,600]
   280   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         607,534         607,534
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         550,599         525,599
             Unjustified program growth                        [-25,000]
   300   EXAMINING.....................         187,263         187,263
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 189,556         189,556
          EDUCATION....................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 182,835         182,835
          TRAINING.....................
   330   JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER                 171,167         171,167
          TRAINING CORPS...............
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            4,637,361       4,693,395
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         230,739         295,739
             Restore cricital                                   [65,000]
             shortfalls................
   360   CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES.....         850,060         850,060
   370   LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...         778,757         778,757
   380   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT.........         370,010         370,010
   390   ADMINISTRATION................         451,556         451,556
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....       1,888,123       1,888,123
   410   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........         276,403         276,403
   420   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         369,443         369,443
   430   OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT.........       1,096,074       1,096,074
   440   ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES........         207,800         207,800
   450   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........         240,641         240,641
   460   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT         250,612         250,612
          READINESS....................
   470   INTERNATIONAL MILITARY                 416,587         416,587
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   480   MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS          36,666          36,666
   530   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,151,023       1,151,023
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE         8,614,494       8,679,494
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   540   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -400,200
             Excessive standard price                          [-56,100]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                 [-194,100]
             adjustments...............
             Working Capital Fund                             [-150,000]
             Carryover Above Allowable
             Ceiling...................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -400,200
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              33,809,040      33,832,274
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          11,435          11,435
   020   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         491,772         511,772
             Home station training                              [20,000]
             unfunded requirement......
   030   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         116,163         116,163
   040   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         563,524         563,524
   050   AVIATION ASSETS...............          91,162          91,162
   060   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             347,459         347,659
          SUPPORT......................
             Defense Language Program..                            [200]
   070   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.         101,926         101,926
   080   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.          56,219          56,219
   090   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         573,843         573,843
   100   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                214,955         223,055
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                 [8,100]
             shortfalls................
   110   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL              37,620          37,620
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,606,078       2,634,378
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   120   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          11,027          11,027
   130   ADMINISTRATION................          16,749          16,749
   140   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          17,825          17,825
   150   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           6,177           6,177
   160   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          54,475          54,475
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             106,253         106,253
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   180   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                          -6,800
             Excessive standard price                           [-6,800]
             for fuel..................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                          -6,800
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               2,712,331       2,733,831
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................         708,251         758,251
             Home station training                              [50,000]
             unfunded requirement......
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......         197,251         197,251
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         792,271         792,271
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........          80,341          80,341
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT          37,138          37,138
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............         887,625         884,825
             Unjustified program growth                         [-2,800]
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             696,267         690,152
          SUPPORT......................
             Defense Language Program..                            [200]
             Unjustified program growth                         [-6,315]
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          61,240          61,240
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.         219,948         219,948
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       1,040,012       1,040,012
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                676,715         691,115
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [14,400]
             shortfalls................
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL           1,021,144       1,021,144
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,418,203       6,473,688
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....           6,396           6,396
   140   ADMINISTRATION................          68,528          69,678
             State Partnership Program.                          [1,150]
   150   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          76,524          76,524
   160   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           7,712           7,712
   170   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         245,046         245,046
   180   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........           2,961           2,961
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             407,167         408,317
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   190   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -29,000
             Excessive standard price                          [-29,000]
             for fuel..................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -29,000
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,825,370       6,853,005
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT             4,094,765       4,094,765
          OPERATIONS...................
   020   FLEET AIR TRAINING............       1,722,473       1,722,473
   030   AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &               52,670          52,670
          ENGINEERING SERVICES.........
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY               97,584          97,584
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT...........         446,733         453,233
             Marine Corps unfunded                               [5,300]
             requirement--accelerate
             readiness - H-1...........
             Marine Corps unfunded                               [1,200]
             requirement--accelerate
             readiness - MV-22B........
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....       1,007,681       1,071,681
             AC Depot maintenance                               [34,000]
             unfunded requirement......
             Navy unfunded requirement--                        [30,000]
             Improve Afloat Readiness..
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS               38,248          38,248
          SUPPORT......................
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS............         564,720         598,220
             E-6B and F-35 sustainment                          [16,000]
             unfunded requirement......
             Marine Corps unfunded                               [6,800]
             requirement--accelerate
             readiness - KC-130J.......
             Marine Corps unfunded                              [10,700]
             requirement--accelerate
             readiness - MV-22B........
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP               3,513,083       3,861,283
          OPERATIONS...................
             Cruiser Modernization.....                         [90,200]
             Navy unfunded requirement--                       [158,000]
             Improve Afloat Readiness..
             Navy unfunded requirement--                        [41,000]
             Restore 3 CG Deployments..
             Navy unfunded requirement--                        [59,000]
             Reverse PONCE (LPD-15)
             Inactivation..............
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &              743,765         763,465
          TRAINING.....................
             Navy unfunded requirement--                        [19,700]
             Restore Fleet Training....
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE........       5,168,273       5,486,873
             Cruiser Modernization.....                         [71,100]
             Navy unfunded requirement--                       [238,000]
             Ship Depot Wholeness......
             Program increase..........                          [9,500]
   120   SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT.       1,575,578       1,654,578
             Navy unfunded requirement--                        [79,000]
             Increase Alfoat Readiness.
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS.........         558,727         558,727
   140   ELECTRONIC WARFARE............         105,680         105,680
   150   SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE         180,406         180,406
   160   WARFARE TACTICS...............         470,032         470,032
   170   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND            346,703         346,703
          OCEANOGRAPHY.................
   180   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........       1,158,688       1,158,688
   190   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.........         113,692         113,692
   200   DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT......           2,509           2,509
   210   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE               91,019          91,019
          OPERATIONS...................
   220   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             74,780          74,780
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
   230   CRUISE MISSILE................         106,030         106,030
   240   FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE.......       1,233,805       1,233,805
   250   IN-SERVICE WEAPONS SYSTEMS             163,025         163,025
          SUPPORT......................
   260   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........         553,269         553,269
   270   OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT..         350,010         350,010
   280   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........         790,685         790,685
   290   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND         1,642,742       1,697,842
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                [55,100]
             shortfalls................
   300   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       4,206,136       4,206,136
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      31,173,511      32,098,111
 
         MOBILIZATION
   310   SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE.         893,517         893,517
   320   READY RESERVE FORCE...........         274,524         274,524
   330   AIRCRAFT ACTIVATIONS/                    6,727           6,727
          INACTIVATIONS................
   340   SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS         288,154         288,154
   350   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES           95,720          95,720
          SYSTEMS......................
   360   INDUSTRIAL READINESS..........           2,109           2,109
   370   COAST GUARD SUPPORT...........          21,114          21,114
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....       1,581,865       1,581,865
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   380   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         143,815         143,815
   390   RECRUIT TRAINING..............           8,519           8,519
   400   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING              143,445         143,445
          CORPS........................
   410   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         699,214         699,214
   420   FLIGHT TRAINING...............           5,310           5,310
   430   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               172,852         172,852
          EDUCATION....................
   440   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         222,728         222,728
   450   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         225,647         225,647
   460   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 130,569         130,569
          EDUCATION....................
   470   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                  73,730          73,730
          TRAINING.....................
   480   JUNIOR ROTC...................          50,400          50,400
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            1,876,229       1,876,229
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   490   ADMINISTRATION................         917,453         917,453
   500   EXTERNAL RELATIONS............          14,570          14,570
   510   CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND                  124,070         124,070
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   520   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                  369,767         369,767
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   530   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         285,927         285,927
   540   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         319,908         319,908
   570   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         171,659         171,659
   590   PLANNING, ENGINEERING AND              270,863         270,863
          DESIGN.......................
   600   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM              1,112,766       1,112,766
          MANAGEMENT...................
   610   HULL, MECHANICAL AND                    49,078          49,078
          ELECTRICAL SUPPORT...........
   620   COMBAT/WEAPONS SYSTEMS........          24,989          24,989
   630   SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE            72,966          72,966
          SYSTEMS......................
   640   NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE...         595,711         595,711
   700   INTERNATIONAL HEADQUARTERS AND           4,809           4,809
          AGENCIES.....................
   730   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         517,440         517,440
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           4,851,976       4,851,976
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   740   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -416,900
             Excessive standard price                         [-390,500]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                  [-26,400]
             adjustments...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -416,900
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              39,483,581      39,991,281
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          MARINE CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES............         674,613         760,313
             Enterprise network defense                          [5,700]
             unfunded requirement......
             Exercise program unfunded                          [58,000]
             requirement...............
             Marine Corps unfunded                              [22,000]
             requirement- enhanced
             combat helmets............
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS...............         947,424         983,674
             Critical/ no fail EOD                                 [600]
             unfunded requirement......
             Marine Corps unfunded                              [13,200]
             requirement- rifle combat
             optic modernization.......
             Marine Corps unfunded                               [8,250]
             requirement- SPMAGTF--C4
             UUNS......................
             Nano/VTOL unfunded                                 [14,200]
             requirement...............
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         206,783         214,583
             Depot maintenance unfunded                          [7,800]
             requirement...............
   040   MARITIME PREPOSITIONING.......          85,276          85,276
   050   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &             632,673         694,673
          MODERNIZATION................
             Facility demolition                                [39,200]
             unfunded requirement......
             Restore Sustainment                                [22,800]
             shortfalls................
   060   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       2,136,626       2,136,626
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       4,683,395       4,875,145
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   070   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          15,946          15,946
   080   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........             935             935
   090   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          99,305          99,305
   100   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                45,495          45,495
          EDUCATION....................
   110   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         369,979         369,979
   120   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         165,566         165,566
   130   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                  35,133          35,133
          EDUCATION....................
   140   JUNIOR ROTC...................          23,622          23,622
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              755,981         755,981
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          34,534          34,534
   160   ADMINISTRATION................         355,932         355,932
   180   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                 76,896          76,896
          MANAGEMENT...................
   200   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          47,520          47,520
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             514,882         514,882
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   210   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                          -6,400
             Excessive standard price                           [-4,900]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                   [-1,500]
             adjustments...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                          -6,400
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               5,954,258       6,139,608
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT               526,190         526,190
          OPERATIONS...................
   020   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE......           6,714           6,714
   030   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....          86,209          90,209
             Navy unfunded requirement--                         [4,000]
             Improve Afloat Readiness..
   040   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                  389             389
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AVIATION LOGISTICS............          10,189          10,189
   070   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                  560             860
          TRAINING.....................
             Navy unfunded requirement--                           [300]
             Restore Fleet Training....
   090   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS.........          13,173          13,173
   100   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         109,053         109,053
   120   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........          27,226          27,226
   130   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            27,571          28,671
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                 [1,100]
             shortfalls................
   140   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........          99,166          99,166
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         906,440         911,840
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   ADMINISTRATION................           1,351           1,351
   160   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                   13,251          13,251
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   170   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....           3,445           3,445
   180   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                  3,169           3,169
          MANAGEMENT...................
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              21,216          21,216
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   200   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -26,600
             Excessive standard price                          [-26,600]
             for fuel..................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -26,600
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                 927,656         906,456
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES..............          94,154          94,154
   020   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          18,594          18,594
   030   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            25,470          26,170
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                   [700]
             shortfalls................
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         111,550         111,550
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         249,768         250,468
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....             902             902
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          11,130          11,130
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....           8,833           8,833
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              20,865          20,865
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   090   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                            -800
             Excessive standard price                             [-800]
             for fuel..................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                            -800
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                 270,633         270,533
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       3,294,124       3,294,124
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES.....       1,682,045       1,684,845
             HH-60 unfunded requirement                          [2,800]
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,        1,730,757       1,730,757
          MAINTAIN SKILLS).............
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       7,042,988       7,156,064
             Compass Call Program                              [-56,500]
             Restructure...............
             Weapon system sustainment                         [169,576]
             unfunded requirement......
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              1,657,019       1,710,019
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [53,000]
             shortfalls................
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................       2,787,216       2,787,216
   070   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING..         887,831         927,831
             Air Force unfunded                                 [40,000]
             requirement--Ground Based
             Radars....................
   080   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS.       1,070,178       1,070,178
   100   LAUNCH FACILITIES.............         208,582         208,582
   110   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS.........         362,250         362,250
   120   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT            907,245         907,245
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
   130   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              199,171         199,171
          OPERATIONS...................
   135   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         930,757         930,757
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      22,760,163      22,969,039
 
         MOBILIZATION
   140   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS............       1,703,059       1,703,059
   150   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS.....         138,899         138,899
   160   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       1,553,439       1,619,863
             Weapon system sustainment                          [66,424]
             unfunded requirement......
   170   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                258,328         266,628
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                 [8,300]
             shortfalls................
   180   BASE SUPPORT..................         722,756         722,756
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....       4,376,481       4,451,205
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   190   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         120,886         120,886
   200   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          23,782          23,782
   210   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING               77,692          77,692
          CORPS (ROTC).................
   220   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                236,254         243,854
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                 [7,600]
             shortfalls................
   230   BASE SUPPORT..................         819,915         819,915
   240   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         387,446         387,446
   250   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         725,134         725,134
   260   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               264,213         264,213
          EDUCATION....................
   270   TRAINING SUPPORT..............          86,681          86,681
   280   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         305,004         305,004
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         104,754         104,754
   300   EXAMINING.....................           3,944           3,944
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 184,841         184,841
          EDUCATION....................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 173,583         173,583
          TRAINING.....................
   330   JUNIOR ROTC...................          58,877          58,877
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            3,573,006       3,580,606
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   340   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS..........       1,107,846       1,107,846
   350   TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..         924,185         924,185
   360   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          48,778          48,778
   370   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                321,013         331,313
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [10,300]
             shortfalls................
   380   BASE SUPPORT..................       1,115,910       1,115,910
   390   ADMINISTRATION................         811,650         811,650
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         269,809         269,809
   410   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES..         961,304         961,304
   420   CIVIL AIR PATROL..............          25,735          28,535
             Civil Air Patrol O&M                                [2,800]
             Support...................
   450   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.........          90,573          90,573
   460   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,131,603       1,131,603
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           6,808,406       6,821,506
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   470   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -484,700
             Excessive standard price                         [-368,000]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                 [-116,700]
             adjustments...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -484,700
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              37,518,056      37,337,656
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       1,707,882       1,707,882
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         230,016         230,016
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         541,743         541,743
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                113,470         116,170
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                 [2,700]
             shortfalls................
   050   BASE SUPPORT..................         384,832         384,832
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,977,943       2,980,643
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          54,939          54,939
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          14,754          14,754
   080   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS              12,707          12,707
          MGMT (ARPC)..................
   090   OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY           7,210           7,210
          COMP)........................
   100   AUDIOVISUAL...................             376             376
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             89,986          89,986
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   110   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -59,700
             Excessive standard price                          [-59,700]
             for fuel..................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -59,700
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               3,067,929       3,010,929
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS...........       3,282,238       3,278,238
             Unjustifed growth.........                         [-4,000]
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         723,062         723,062
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       1,824,329       1,867,529
             Weapon system sustainment                           [3,200]
             engines unfunded
             requirement...............
             Weapon system sustainment                          [40,000]
             unfunded requirement......
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                245,840         254,940
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                 [9,100]
             shortfalls................
   050   BASE SUPPORT..................         575,548         575,548
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,651,017       6,699,317
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-
          WIDE ACTIVITIES
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          23,715          23,715
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          28,846          28,846
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             52,561          52,561
             AND SERVICE-WIDE
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   080   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -117,700
             Excessive standard price                         [-117,700]
             for fuel..................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -117,700
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,703,578       6,634,178
              MAINTENANCE, ANG.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........         506,113         506,113
   020   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF             524,439         524,439
          DEFENSE......................
   030   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/          4,898,159       4,889,359
          OPERATING FORCES.............
             Unjustified growth in                              [-8,800]
             total civilian
             compensation..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       5,928,711       5,919,911
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   040   DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY         138,658         138,658
   050   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........          85,701          85,701
   070   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/            365,349         365,349
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING......
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              589,708         589,708
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   080   CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS.......         160,480         195,819
             National Guard Youth                               [10,339]
             Challenge Program.........
             STARBASE..................                         [25,000]
   100   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY.         630,925         630,925
   110   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT          1,356,380       1,356,380
          AGENCY.......................
   120   DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES                683,620         683,620
          ACTIVITY.....................
   130   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS          1,439,891       1,439,891
          AGENCY.......................
   150   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY.          24,984          24,984
   160   DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY......         357,964         352,164
             Price Comparability Office                         [-5,800]
             unjustified growth........
   170   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY........         223,422         223,422
   180   DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING           112,681         112,681
          AGENCY.......................
   190   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION           496,754         621,754
          AGENCY.......................
             Transfer from Drug                                [125,000]
             Interdiction and Counter-
             Drug Activities...........
   200   DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE......         538,711         538,711
   230   DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY             35,417          35,417
          ADMINISTRATION...............
   240   DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION               448,146         448,146
          AGENCY.......................
   260   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                2,671,143       2,701,143
          EDUCATION ACTIVITY...........
             Impact Aid................                         [25,000]
             Impact Aid severe                                   [5,000]
             disabilities..............
   270   MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY........         446,975         446,975
   290   OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT.         155,399         136,199
             Guam public health lab....                        [-19,200]
   300   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF           1,481,643       1,487,293
          DEFENSE......................
             BRAC 2017 Round Planning                           [-3,530]
             and Analyses..............
             CWMD Sustainment:                                  [-3,800]
             Constellation program
             reduction.................
             DOD rewards early to need.                         [-1,000]
             Intelligence Management--                          [-1,000]
             program reduction.........
             Reeadiness environmental                           [14,980]
             protection initiative.....
   310   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/             89,429          89,429
          ADMIN & SVC-WIDE ACTIVITIES..
   320   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                629,874         629,874
          SERVICES.....................
   330   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........      14,069,333      14,069,333
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION         26,053,171      26,224,160
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   340   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -47,100
             Excessive standard price                          [-17,800]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                  [-34,300]
             adjustments...............
             Temporary Duty Assignment                           [5,000]
             Per Diem Rate Waiver......
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -47,100
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              32,571,590      32,686,679
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
         MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
         MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
   010   US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE             14,194          14,194
          ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE........
   020   OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN,                 105,125         105,125
          DISASTER AND CIVIC AID.......
   030   COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION..         325,604         325,604
   050   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             170,167         170,167
          ARMY.........................
   060   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             281,762         281,762
          NAVY.........................
   070   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR         371,521         371,521
          FORCE........................
   080   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,               9,009           9,009
          DEFENSE......................
   090   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION              197,084         197,084
          FORMERLY USED SITES..........
             SUBTOTAL MISCELLANEOUS           1,474,466       1,474,466
             APPROPRIATIONS............
 
              TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS             1,474,466       1,474,466
              APPROPRIATIONS...........
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &             171,318,488     171,870,896
              MAINTENANCE..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
      SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY
                  OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2017        Conference
  Line                 Item                  Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................         427,063        416,263
             Army requested realignment                        [-10,800]
             (ERI)......................
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........       1,834,423      1,834,423
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.         558,086        426,086
             Army requested realignment                       [-132,000]
             (ERI)......................
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................          58,620         58,620
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS            1,552,468      1,550,468
          SUPPORT.......................
             Army requested realignment                         [-2,000]
             (ERI)......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS..         476,853        476,853
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          45,749         45,749
   140   ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES..........       8,234,566      8,234,566
   150   COMMANDERS EMERGENCY RESPONSE             5,000          5,000
          PROGRAM.......................
   160   RESET..........................       1,100,722      1,100,722
   170   COMBATANT COMMANDS DIRECT                79,568         79,568
          MISSION SUPPORT...............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..      14,373,118     14,228,318
 
         MOBILIZATION
   190   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS......         350,200        130,000
             Army requested realignment                       [-220,200]
             (ERI)......................
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......         350,200        130,000
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         720,399        840,399
             Army requested realignment                        [120,000]
             (ERI)......................
   380   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT..........          13,974         13,974
   420   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT........         105,508        105,508
   450   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT.........         185,904        185,904
   530   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............         909,278        909,278
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE          1,935,063      2,055,063
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               16,658,381     16,413,381
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           6,252          6,252
   040   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.           2,075          2,075
   060   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                1,140          1,140
          SUPPORT.......................
   090   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          14,653         14,653
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          24,120         24,120
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   24,120         24,120
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................          10,564         10,564
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.......             748            748
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           5,751          5,751
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........             200            200
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................          27,183         27,183
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                2,741          2,741
          SUPPORT.......................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          18,800         18,800
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL                  920            920
          HEADQUARTERS..................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          66,907         66,907
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   66,907         66,907
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG.........
 
         AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
          FUND
         MINISTRY OF DEFENSE
   010   SUSTAINMENT....................       2,173,341      2,173,341
   020   INFRASTRUCTURE.................          48,262         48,262
   030   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION...         821,716        821,716
   040   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS........         289,139        289,139
             SUBTOTAL MINISTRY OF              3,332,458      3,332,458
             DEFENSE....................
 
         MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
   050   SUSTAINMENT....................         860,441        860,441
   060   INFRASTRUCTURE.................          20,837         20,837
   070   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION...           8,153          8,153
   080   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS........          41,326         41,326
             SUBTOTAL MINISTRY OF                930,757        930,757
             INTERIOR...................
 
              TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY       4,263,215      4,263,215
              FORCES FUND...............
 
         IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
         IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
   010   IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND......         919,500              0
             Transfer to Counter-ISIL                         [-919,500]
             Fund.......................
             SUBTOTAL IRAQ TRAIN AND             919,500              0
             EQUIP FUND.................
 
              TOTAL IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP         919,500              0
              FUND......................
 
         SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
         SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
   010   SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND.....         250,000              0
             Transfer to Counter-ISIL                         [-250,000]
             Fund.......................
             SUBTOTAL SYRIA TRAIN AND            250,000              0
             EQUIP FUND.................
 
              TOTAL SYRIA TRAIN AND              250,000              0
              EQUIP FUND................
 
         COUNTER-ISIL FUND
         COUNTER-ISIL FUND
   010   COUNTER-ISIL FUND..............                      1,169,500
             Transfer from Iraq Train                          [919,500]
             and Equip..................
             Transfer from Syria Train                         [250,000]
             and Equip..................
             SUBTOTAL COUNTER-ISIL FUND.                      1,169,500
 
              TOTAL COUNTER-ISIL FUND...                      1,169,500
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT                427,452        427,452
          OPERATIONS....................
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY                 4,603          4,603
          SUPPORT.......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT............         159,049        159,049
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE.....         113,994        113,994
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                 1,840          1,840
          SUPPORT.......................
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS.............          35,529         35,529
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                1,073,080      1,073,080
          OPERATIONS....................
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                17,306         17,306
          TRAINING......................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE.........       2,128,431      2,128,431
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS..........          21,257         21,257
   160   WARFARE TACTICS................          22,603         22,603
   170   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND              22,934         22,934
          OCEANOGRAPHY..................
   180   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES..........         575,305        575,305
   190   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE..........          11,358         11,358
   250   IN-SERVICE WEAPONS SYSTEMS               61,000         61,000
          SUPPORT.......................
   260   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE............         309,045        309,045
   270   OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT...           8,000          8,000
   290   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND              7,819          7,819
          MODERNIZATION.................
   300   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........          61,493         61,493
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       5,062,098      5,062,098
 
         MOBILIZATION
   330   AIRCRAFT ACTIVATIONS/                     1,530          1,530
          INACTIVATIONS.................
   350   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES             6,713          6,713
          SYSTEMS.......................
   370   COAST GUARD SUPPORT............         162,692        162,692
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......         170,935        170,935
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   410   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....          43,365         43,365
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                43,365         43,365
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   490   ADMINISTRATION.................           3,764          3,764
   500   EXTERNAL RELATIONS.............             515            515
   520   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL           5,409          5,409
          MANAGEMENT....................
   530   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT........           1,578          1,578
   570   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         126,700        126,700
   600   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                   9,261          9,261
          MANAGEMENT....................
   640   NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE....           1,501          1,501
   730   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          16,280         16,280
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              165,008        165,008
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                5,441,406      5,441,406
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE
          CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES.............         571,935        571,935
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS................         266,094        266,094
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         147,000        147,000
   060   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........          18,576         18,576
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       1,003,605      1,003,605
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   110   TRAINING SUPPORT...............          31,750         31,750
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                31,750         31,750
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....          73,800         73,800
   200   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............           3,650          3,650
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD               77,450         77,450
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                1,112,805      1,112,805
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS.
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE.....          16,500         16,500
   050   AVIATION LOGISTICS.............           2,522          2,522
   100   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES..........           7,243          7,243
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          26,265         26,265
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   26,265         26,265
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES...............           2,500          2,500
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........             804            804
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..           3,304          3,304
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                    3,304          3,304
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES..........       1,852,159      1,890,159
             Enhancing readiness levels                         [10,000]
             of DCA aircraft............
             ERI nuclear readiness......                        [28,000]
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES......       1,127,319      1,127,319
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,           152,278        152,278
          MAINTAIN SKILLS)..............
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............       1,061,506      1,087,106
            Compass Call Program                                [25,600]
             Restructure................
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                  56,700         56,700
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
   060   BASE SUPPORT...................         941,714        941,714
   070   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING...          30,219         30,219
   080   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS..         213,696        218,696
             Promoting additional DCA                            [5,000]
             burden sharing.............
   100   LAUNCH FACILITIES..............             869            869
   110   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS..........           5,008          5,008
   120   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             100,081        100,081
          MISSION SUPPORT...............
   135   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          79,893         79,893
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       5,621,442      5,690,042
 
         MOBILIZATION
   140   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS.............       2,606,729      2,606,729
   150   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS......         108,163        108,163
   160   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         891,102        891,102
   180   BASE SUPPORT...................           3,686          3,686
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......       3,609,680      3,609,680
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   230   BASE SUPPORT...................          52,740         52,740
   240   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....           4,500          4,500
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                57,240         57,240
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   340   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS...........          86,716         86,716
   380   BASE SUPPORT...................          59,133         59,133
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS.....         165,348        165,348
   410   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...         141,883        116,825
             Program reduction..........                       [-25,058]
   450   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT..........              61             61
   460   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          15,823         15,823
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              468,964        443,906
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                9,757,326      9,800,868
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............          51,086         51,086
   050   BASE SUPPORT...................           6,500          6,500
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          57,586         57,586
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   57,586         57,586
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS.....           3,400          3,400
   050   BASE SUPPORT...................          16,600         16,600
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          20,000         20,000
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   20,000         20,000
              MAINTENANCE, ANG..........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF..........                         10,000
             Enhancing exercise of DCA                          [10,000]
             aircraft...................
   030   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/           2,853,363      2,853,363
          OPERATING FORCES..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       2,853,363      2,863,363
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   100   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY..          13,436         13,436
   110   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT              13,564         13,564
          AGENCY........................
   130   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS              34,299         34,299
          AGENCY........................
   150   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY..         111,986        111,986
   170   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY.........          13,317         13,317
   190   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION          1,412,000      2,162,000
          AGENCY........................
             Transfer from                                     [750,000]
             Counterterrorism
             Partnership Fund...........
   260   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION          67,000         67,000
          ACTIVITY......................
   300   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF               31,106         31,106
          DEFENSE.......................
   320   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                   3,137          3,137
          SERVICES......................
   330   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............       1,803,880      1,803,880
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND       3,503,725      4,253,725
             SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.....
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                6,357,088      7,117,088
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               44,957,903     45,516,445
              MAINTENANCE...............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4303. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS FOR BASE REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
      SEC. 4303. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY
       OPERATIONS FOR BASE REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2017        Conference
  Line                 Item                  Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................         317,093        317,093
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.......           5,904          5,904
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........          38,614         38,614
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........           8,361          8,361
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.         279,072        279,072
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................         106,424        106,424
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS              253,533        253,533
          SUPPORT.......................
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE..         350,000        350,000
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                113,800
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                            [113,800]
             Modernization funding......
   140   ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES..........          11,200         11,200
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       1,370,201      1,484,001
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   250   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....           3,565          3,565
   270   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                  9,021          9,021
          EDUCATION.....................
   280   TRAINING SUPPORT...............           2,434          2,434
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING.....                        284,800
             Recruiting and Advertising                        [284,800]
             Add........................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND TRAINING           1,254          1,254
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                16,274        301,074
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         200,000        200,000
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE            200,000        200,000
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   540   UNDISTRIBUTED..................                        563,400
             Additional funding to                             [563,400]
             support increase in Army
             end strength...............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.....                        563,400
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                1,586,475      2,548,475
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES.......             708            708
   020   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           8,570          8,570
   030   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........             375            375
   040   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.              13             13
   050   AVIATION ASSETS................             608            608
   060   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                4,285          4,285
          SUPPORT.......................
   100   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                 13,100
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                             [13,100]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          14,559         27,659
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   180   UNDISTRIBUTED..................                         82,700
             Additional funding to                              [82,700]
             support increase in Army
             Reserve end strength.......
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.....                         82,700
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   14,559        110,359
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................           5,585          5,585
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........          28,956         28,956
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........          10,272         10,272
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................           5,621          5,621
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                9,694          9,694
          SUPPORT.......................
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                  1,500
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                              [1,500]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          60,128         61,628
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   190   UNDISTRIBUTED..................                        127,300
             Additional funding to                             [127,300]
             support increase in Army
             National Guard end strength
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.....                        127,300
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   60,128        188,928
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT                500,000        500,000
          OPERATIONS....................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE.........         775,000        775,000
   290   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND             19,270         45,370
          MODERNIZATION.................
             Increase Restoration &                             [26,100]
             Modernization funding......
   300   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........         158,032        158,032
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       1,452,302      1,478,402
 
         MOBILIZATION
   350   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES             3,597          3,597
          SYSTEMS.......................
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......           3,597          3,597
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   540   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS.....          25,617         25,617
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD               25,617         25,617
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                1,481,516      1,507,616
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE
          CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES.............         300,000        300,000
   050   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &                               7,200
          MODERNIZATION.................
             Increase Restoration &                              [7,200]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..         300,000        307,200
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  300,000        307,200
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS.
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   130   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND                               500
          MODERNIZATION.................
             Increase Restoration &                                [500]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..                            500
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                                     500
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND                             1,000
          MODERNIZATION.................
             Increase Restoration &                              [1,000]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..                          1,000
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                                   1,000
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         124,000        124,000
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                 32,900
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                             [32,900]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..         124,000        156,900
 
         MOBILIZATION
   170   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                  5,100
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                              [5,100]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......                          5,100
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   220   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                  4,700
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                              [4,700]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                                4,700
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   370   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                  6,400
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                              [6,400]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                               6,400
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  124,000        173,100
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                  1,600
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                              [1,600]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..                          1,600
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                                   1,600
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                                  4,300
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
             Increase Restoration &                              [4,300]
             Modernization funding......
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..                          4,300
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                                   4,300
              MAINTENANCE, ANG..........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/              14,344         14,344
          OPERATING FORCES..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          14,344         14,344
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   130   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS              14,700         14,700
          AGENCY........................
   330   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............           9,000          9,000
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND          23,700         23,700
             SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.....
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   38,044         38,044
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                3,604,722      4,881,122
              MAINTENANCE...............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
                 Item                       Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....     128,902,332      128,202,564
Military Personnel Pay Raise..........                         [330,000]
Marine Corps--Bonus Pay/PCS Resotral/                           [49,000]
 Foreign Language Bonus...............
Foreign currency adjustments..........                        [-200,400]
Historical unobligated balances.......                        [-880,050]
National Guard State Partnership                                   [841]
 Program, Army, Special Training......
National Guard State Partnership                                   [841]
 Program, Air Force, Special Training.
 
Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Fund        6,366,908        6,366,908
 Contributions........................
 
  Total, Military Personnel...........     135,269,240      134,569,472
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                         Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
                 Item                       Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....       3,644,161        3,644,161
 
  Total, Military Personnel                  3,644,161        3,644,161
   Appropriations.....................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4403. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR 
BASE REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4403. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR
              BASE REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
                 Item                       Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....          62,965        1,350,465
Fund Active Army End Strength to 476k.                         [719,000]
Fund Army National Guard End Strength                          [129,600]
 to 343k..............................
Fund Army Reserves End Strength to                              [53,300]
 199k.................................
Fund Active Navy End Strength to                                [29,600]
 323.9k...............................
Fund Active Air Force End Strength to                          [116,000]
 321k.................................
Fund Active Marine Corps End Strength                          [240,000]
 to 185k..............................
 
  Total, Military Personnel...........          62,965        1,350,465
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
        SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
             Program Title                  Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY...............          56,469           56,469
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY...          56,469           56,469
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS................          63,967           63,967
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR              63,967           63,967
   FORCE..............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT--DEF..........          37,132           37,132
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-         37,132           37,132
   WIDE...............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
COMMISSARY............................       1,214,045        1,214,045
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA...       1,214,045        1,214,045
 
CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE...............         147,282          147,282
RDT&E.................................         388,609          388,609
PROCUREMENT...........................          15,132           15,132
   TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS               551,023          551,023
   DESTRUCTION........................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG             730,087          605,087
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
     Transfer to Defense Security                             [-125,000]
     Cooperation Agency...............
DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM.........         114,713          114,713
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG          844,800          719,800
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.............         318,882          318,882
RDT&E.................................           3,153            3,153
   TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR               322,035          322,035
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................       9,240,160        9,240,160
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................      15,738,759       15,738,759
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........       2,367,759        2,367,759
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT................       1,743,749        1,743,749
MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.................         311,380          311,380
EDUCATION AND TRAINING................         743,231          743,231
BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS........       2,086,352        2,086,352
   SUBTOTAL OPERATION & MAINTENANCE...      32,231,390       32,231,390
 
RDT&E
RESEARCH..............................           9,097            9,097
EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT................          58,517           58,517
ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT..................         221,226          221,226
DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION..............          96,602           96,602
ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT...............         364,057          364,057
MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT................          58,410           58,410
CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT..............          14,998           14,998
   SUBTOTAL RDT&E.....................         822,907          822,907
 
PROCUREMENT
INITIAL OUTFITTING....................          20,611           20,611
REPLACEMENT & MODERNIZATION...........         360,727          360,727
JOINT OPERATIONAL MEDICINE INFORMATION           2,413            2,413
 SYSTEM...............................
DOD HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM                29,468           29,468
 MODERNIZATION........................
   SUBTOTAL PROCUREMENT...............         413,219          413,219
 
UNDISTRIBUTED
     Historical unobligated balances..                        [-399,100]
     Reduction for unjustified travel                           [-6,500]
     expenses.........................
     Reimbursement rates for                                    [32,000]
     Comprehensive Autism Care
     Demonstration program............
   SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED.............                         -373,600
 
   TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.......      33,467,516       33,093,916
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........      36,556,987       36,058,387
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                         Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
             Program Title                  Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY...............          46,833           46,833
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY...          46,833           46,833
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA)........          93,800           93,800
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-         93,800           93,800
   WIDE...............................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG             191,533          191,533
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG          191,533          191,533
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.............          22,062           22,062
   TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR                22,062           22,062
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................          95,366           95,366
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................         235,620          235,620
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........           3,325            3,325
   SUBTOTAL OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.         334,311          334,311
 
   TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.......         334,311          334,311
 
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE...........                          350,000
     Program increase.................                         [350,000]
   TOTAL UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE..                          350,000
 
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND....       1,000,000                0
     Program decrease.................                        [-250,000]
     Transfer to Counter-ISIL Fund....                        [-750,000]
   TOTAL COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS       1,000,000                0
   FUND...............................
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........       1,688,539        1,038,539
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4503. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR 
BASE REQUIREMENTS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4503. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR
              BASE REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2017        Conference
             Program Title                  Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG              23,800           23,800
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG           23,800           23,800
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........          23,800           23,800
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                     FY 2017       Conference
          Account                  Installation               Project Title           Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             Alaska
Army                           Fort Wainwright         Unmanned Aerial Vehicle            47,000         47,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             California
Army                           Concord                 Access Control Point.......        12,600         12,600
                             Colorado
Army                           Fort Carson             Automated Infantry Platoon          8,100          8,100
                                                        Battle Course.
Army                           Fort Carson             Unmanned Aerial Vehicle             5,000          5,000
                                                        Hangar.
                             Cuba
Army                           Guantanamo Bay          Guantanamo Bay Naval               33,000         33,000
                                                        Station Migration Complex.
                             Georgia
Army                           Fort Gordon             Access Control Point.......             0              0
Army                           Fort Gordon             Company Operations Facility             0         10,600
Army                           Fort Gordon             Cyber Protection Team Ops          90,000         90,000
                                                        Facility.
Army                           Fort Stewart            Automated Qualification/           14,800         14,800
                                                        Training Range.
                             Germany
Army                           East Camp Grafenwoehr   Training Support Center....        22,000         22,000
Army                           Garmisch                Dining Facility............         9,600          9,600
Army                           Wiesbaden Army          Controlled Humidity                16,500         16,500
                                Airfield                Warehouse.
Army                           Wiesbaden Army          Hazardous Material Storage          2,700          2,700
                                Airfield                Building.
                             Hawaii
Army                           Fort Shafter            Command and Control                40,000         40,000
                                                        Facility, Incr 2.
                             Missouri
Army                           Fort Leonard Wood       Fire Station...............             0          6,900
                             Texas
Army                           Fort Hood               Automated Infantry Platoon          7,600          7,600
                                                        Battle Course.
                             Utah
Army                           Camp Williams           Live Fire Exercise                  7,400          7,400
                                                        Shoothouse.
                             Virginia
Army                           Fort Belvoir            Secure Admin/Operations            64,000         64,000
                                                        Facility, Incr 2.
Army                           Fort Belvoir            Vehicle Maintenance Shop...             0         23,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support FY17...        18,000         18,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Minor Construction FY17....        25,000         35,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design FY17...        80,159         80,159
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                  503,459        553,959
                               ......................
                             Arizona
Navy                           Yuma                    VMX-22 Maintenance Hangar..        48,355         48,355
                             California
Navy                           Coronado                Coastal Campus Entry               13,044         13,044
                                                        Control Point.
Navy                           Coronado                Coastal Campus Utilities           81,104         81,104
                                                        Infrastructure.
Navy                           Coronado                Grace Hopper Data Center           10,353         10,353
                                                        Power Upgrades.
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Engine Repair                26,723         26,723
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Miramar                 Aircraft Maintenance                    0         79,399
                                                        Hangar, Incr 1.
Navy                           Miramar                 Communications Complex &                0         34,700
                                                        Infrastructure Upgrade.
Navy                           Miramar                 F-35 Aircraft Parking Apron             0         40,000
Navy                           San Diego               Energy Security Hospital            6,183              0
                                                        Microgrid.
Navy                           Seal Beach              Missile Magazines..........        21,007         21,007
                             Florida
Navy                           Eglin AFB               WMD Field Training                 20,489         20,489
                                                        Facilities.
Navy                           Mayport NS              Advanced Wastewater                     0              0
                                                        Treatment Plant.
Navy                           Pensacola               A-School Dormitory.........             0              0
                             Guam
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Hardening of Guam POL              26,975         26,975
                                                        Infrastructure.
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Power Upgrade--Harmon......        62,210         62,210
                             Hawaii
Navy                           Barking Sands           Upgrade Power Plant &              43,384         43,384
                                                        Electrical Distrib Sys.
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             Regimental Consolidated            72,565         72,565
                                                        Comm/Elec Facility.
                             Japan
Navy                           Kadena AB               Aircraft Maintenance               26,489         26,489
                                                        Complex.
Navy                           Sasebo                  Shore Power (Juliet Pier)..        16,420         16,420
                             Maine
Navy                           Kittery                 Unaccompanied Housing......        17,773         17,773
Navy                           Kittery                 Utility Improvements for           30,119         30,119
                                                        Nuclear Platforms.
                             Maryland
Navy                           Patuxent River          UCLASS RDT&E Hangar........        40,576         40,576
                             Nevada
Navy                           Fallon                  Air Wing Simulator Facility        13,523         13,523
                             North Carolina
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            Range Facilities Safety            18,482         18,482
                                                        Improvements.
Navy                           Cherry Point            Central Heating Plant              12,515         12,515
                                                        Conversion.
                             South Carolina
Navy                           Beaufort                Aircraft Maintenance Hangar        83,490         83,490
Navy                           Parris Island           Recruit Reconditioning             29,882         29,882
                                                        Center & Barracks.
                             Spain
Navy                           Rota                    Communication Station......        23,607         23,607
                             Virginia
Navy                           Norfolk                 Chambers Field Magazine                 0         27,000
                                                        Recap Ph I.
                             Washington
Navy                           Bangor                  SEAWOLF Class Service Pier.             0         73,000
Navy                           Bangor                  Service Pier Electrical            18,939         18,939
                                                        Upgrades.
Navy                           Bangor                  Submarine Refit Maint              21,476         21,476
                                                        Support Facility.
Navy                           Bremerton               Nuclear Repair Facility....         6,704          6,704
Navy                           Whidbey Island          EA-18G Maintenance Hangar..        45,501         45,501
Navy                           Whidbey Island          Triton Mission Control             30,475         30,475
                                                        Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        88,230         88,230
                                Locations
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  29,790         29,790
                                Locations               Construction.
Navy                           Various Worldwide       Triton Forward Operating           41,380         41,380
                                Locations               Base Hangar.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                1,027,763      1,275,679
                               ......................
                             Alabama
AF                             Maxwell AFB             Jag School Expansion.......             0         15,500
                             Alaska
AF                             Clear AFS               Fire Station...............        20,000         20,000
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A ADAL Field Training          22,100         22,100
                                                        Detachment Fac.
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Aircraft Weather             82,300         82,300
                                                        Shelter (Sqd 2).
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Aircraft Weather             79,500         79,500
                                                        Shelters (Sqd 1).
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Earth Covered                11,300         11,300
                                                        Magazines.
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Hangar/Propulsion MX/        44,900         44,900
                                                        Dispatch.
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Hangar/Squad Ops/AMU         42,700         42,700
                                                        Sq #2.
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Missile Maintenance          12,800         12,800
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Joint Base Elmendorf-   Add/Alter AWACS Alert              29,000         29,000
                                Richardson              Hangar.
                             Arizona
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35A Squad Ops/Aircraft           20,000         20,000
                                                        Maint Unit #5.
                             Australia
AF                             Darwin                  APR--Aircraft MX Support            1,800          1,800
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Darwin                  APR--Expand Parking Apron..        28,600         28,600
                             California
AF                             Edwards AFB             Flightline Fire Station....        24,000         24,000
                             Colorado
AF                             Buckley AFB             Small Arms Range Complex...        13,500         13,500
                             Delaware
AF                             Dover AFB               Aircraft Maintenance Hangar        39,000         39,000
                             Florida
AF                             Eglin AFB               Advanced Munitions                 75,000         75,000
                                                        Technology Complex.
AF                             Eglin AFB               Dormitories (288 rooms)....             0         35,000
AF                             Eglin AFB               Flightline Fire Station....        13,600         13,600
AF                             Patrick AFB             Fire/Crash Rescue Station..        13,500         13,500
                             Georgia
AF                             Moody AFB               Personnel Recovery 4-Bay           30,900         30,900
                                                        Hangar/Helo MX Unit.
                             Germany
AF                             Ramstein AB             37 AS Squadron Operations/         13,437         13,437
                                                        Aircraft Maint Unit.
AF                             Spangdahlem AB          EIC--Site Development and          43,465         43,465
                                                        Infrastructure.
                             Guam
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   APR--Munitions Storage             35,300         35,300
                                                        Igloos, Ph 2.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   APR--SATCOM C4I Facility...        14,200         14,200
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   Block 40 Maintenance Hangar        31,158         31,158
                             Illinois
AF                             Scott AFB               Consolidated Corrosion                  0         41,000
                                                        Facility add/alter.
                             Japan
AF                             Kadena AB               APR--Replace Munitions             19,815         19,815
                                                        Structures.
AF                             Yokota AB               C-130J Corrosion Control           23,777         23,777
                                                        Hangar.
AF                             Yokota AB               Construct Combat Arms               8,243          8,243
                                                        Training & Maint Fac.
                             Kansas
AF                             McConnell AFB           Air Traffic Control Tower..        11,200         11,200
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A ADAL Taxiway Delta..         5,600          5,600
AF                             McConnell AFB           KC-46A Alter Flight                 3,000          3,000
                                                        Simulator Bldgs.
                             Louisiana
AF                             Barksdale AFB           Consolidated Communication         21,000         21,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Mariana Islands
AF                             Unspecified Location    APR--Land Acquisition......         9,000          9,000
                             Maryland
AF                             Joint Base Andrews      21 Points Enclosed Firing          13,000         13,000
                                                        Range.
AF                             Joint Base Andrews      Consolidated Communications             0         50,000
                                                        Center.
AF                             Joint Base Andrews      PAR Relocate JADOC                  3,500          3,500
                                                        Satellite Site.
                             Massachusetts
AF                             Hanscom AFB             Construct Vandenberg Gate               0         10,965
                                                        Complex.
AF                             Hanscom AFB             System Management                  20,000         20,000
                                                        Engineering Facility.
                             Montana
AF                             Malmstrom AFB           Missile Maintenance                14,600         14,600
                                                        Facility.
                             Nevada
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-35A POL Fill Stand               10,600         10,600
                                                        Addition.
                             New Mexico
AF                             Cannon AFB              North Fitness Center.......        21,000         21,000
AF                             Holloman AFB            Hazardous Cargo Pad and            10,600         10,600
                                                        Taxiway.
AF                             Kirtland AFB            Combat Rescue Helicopter            7,300          7,300
                                                        Simulator.
                             Ohio
AF                             Wright-Patterson AFB    Relocated Entry Control            12,600         12,600
                                                        Facility 26A.
                             Oklahoma
AF                             Altus AFB               KC-46A FTU/FTC Simulator           11,600         11,600
                                                        Facility Ph 2.
AF                             Tinker AFB              E-3G Mission and Flight                 0         26,000
                                                        Simulator Training
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Tinker AFB              KC-46A Depot System                17,000         17,000
                                                        Integration Laboratory.
                             South Carolina
AF                             Joint Base Charleston   Fire & Rescue Station......             0         17,000
                             Texas
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  BMT Recruit Dormitory 6....        67,300         67,300
                             Turkey
AF                             Incirlik AB             Airfield Fire/Crash Rescue         13,449         13,449
                                                        Station.
                             United Arab Emirates
AF                             Al Dhafra               Large Aircraft Maintenance         35,400         35,400
                                                        Hangar.
                             United Kingdom
AF                             RAF Croughton           JIAC Consolidation--Ph 3...        53,082         53,082
AF                             RAF Croughton           Main Gate Complex..........        16,500         16,500
                             Utah
AF                             Hill AFB                649 MUNS Munitions Storage          6,600          6,600
                                                        Magazines.
AF                             Hill AFB                649 MUNS Precision Guided           8,700          8,700
                                                        Missile MX Facility.
AF                             Hill AFB                649 MUNS STAMP/Maint &             12,000         12,000
                                                        Inspection Facility.
AF                             Hill AFB                Composite Aircraft Antenna          7,100          7,100
                                                        Calibration Fac.
AF                             Hill AFB                F-35A Munitions Maintenance        10,100         10,100
                                                        Complex.
                             Virginia
AF                             Joint Base Langley-     Air Force Targeting Center.        45,000         45,000
                                Eustis
AF                             Joint Base Langley-     Fuel System Maintenance            14,200         14,200
                                Eustis                  Dock.
                             Washington
AF                             Fairchild AFB           Pipeline Dorm, USAF SERE           27,000         27,000
                                                        School (150 RM).
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF                             Various Worldwide       Planning & Design..........       143,582        143,582
                                Locations
AF                             Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor Military         30,000         40,000
                                Locations               Construction.
                             Wyoming
AF                             F. E. Warren AFB        Missile Transfer Facility           5,550          5,550
                                                        Bldg 4331.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                           1,481,058      1,686,523
                               ......................
                             Alaska
Def-Wide                       Clear AFS               Long Range Discrim Radar          155,000        155,000
                                                        Sys Complex Ph 1.
Def-Wide                       Fort Greely             Missile Defense Complex             9,560          9,560
                                                        Switchgear Facility.
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Elmendorf-   Construct Truck Offload             4,900          4,900
                                Richardson              Facility.
                             Arizona
Def-Wide                       Fort Huachuca           JITC Building 52110                 4,493          4,493
                                                        Renovation.
                             California
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Human Performance              15,578         15,578
                                                        Training Center.
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Seal Team Ops Facility.        47,290         47,290
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Seal Team Ops Facility.        47,290         47,290
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Special RECON Team ONE         20,949         20,949
                                                        Operations Fac.
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Training Detachment ONE        44,305         44,305
                                                        Ops Facility.
Def-Wide                       Travis AFB              Replace Hydrant Fuel System        26,500         26,500
                             Delaware
Def-Wide                       Dover AFB               Welch ES/Dover MS                  44,115         44,115
                                                        Replacement.
                             Diego Garcia
Def-Wide                       Diego Garcia            Improve Wharf Refueling            30,000         30,000
                                                        Capability.
                             Florida
Def-Wide                       Patrick AFB             Replace Fuel Tanks.........        10,100         10,100
                             Georgia
Def-Wide                       Fort Benning            SOF Tactical Unmanned               4,820          4,820
                                                        Aerial Vehicle Hangar.
Def-Wide                       Fort Gordon             Medical Clinic Replacement.        25,000         25,000
                             Germany
Def-Wide                       Kaiserlautern AB        Sembach Elementary/Middle          45,221         45,221
                                                        School Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Rhine Ordnance          Medical Center Replacement         58,063         58,063
                                Barracks                Incr 6.
                             Japan
Def-Wide                       Iwakuni                 Construct Truck Offload &           6,664          6,664
                                                        Loading Facilities.
Def-Wide                       Kadena AB               Kadena Elementary School           84,918         84,918
                                                        Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Kadena AB               Medical Materiel Warehouse.        20,881         20,881
Def-Wide                       Kadena AB               SOF Maintenance Hangar.....        42,823         42,823
Def-Wide                       Kadena AB               SOF Simulator Facility (MC-        12,602         12,602
                                                        130).
Def-Wide                       Yokota AB               Airfield Apron.............        41,294         41,294
Def-Wide                       Yokota AB               Hangar/AMU.................        39,466         39,466
Def-Wide                       Yokota AB               Operations and Warehouse           26,710         26,710
                                                        Facilities.
Def-Wide                       Yokota AB               Simulator Facility.........         6,261          6,261
                             Kwajalein
Def-Wide                       Kwajalein Atoll         Replace Fuel Storage Tanks.        85,500         85,500
                             Maine
Def-Wide                       Kittery                 Medical/Dental Clinic              27,100         27,100
                                                        Replacement.
                             Maryland
Def-Wide                       Bethesda Naval          MEDCEN Addition/Alteration         50,000         50,000
                                Hospital                Incr 1.
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              Access Control Facility....        21,000         21,000
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Campus Feeders Phase 3        17,000         17,000
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize Building        195,000        195,000
                                                        #2 Incr 2.
                             Missouri
Def-Wide                       St. Louis               Land Acquisition--Next NGA            801            801
                                                        West Campus.
                             North Carolina
Def-Wide                       Camp Lejeune            Dental Clinic Replacement..        31,000         31,000
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Combat Medic Training          10,905         10,905
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Parachute Rigging              21,420         21,420
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Special Tactics                30,670         30,670
                                                        Facility (Ph 3).
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Tactical Equipment             23,598         23,598
                                                        Maintenance Facility.
                             South Carolina
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Charleston   Construct Hydrant Fuel             17,000         17,000
                                                        System.
                             Texas
Def-Wide                       Red River Army Depot    Construct Warehouse & Open         44,700         44,700
                                                        Storage.
Def-Wide                       Sheppard AFB            Medical/Dental Clinic              91,910         91,910
                                                        Replacement.
                             United Kingdom
Def-Wide                       RAF Croughton           Croughton Elem/Middle/High         71,424         71,424
                                                        School Replacement.
Def-Wide                       RAF Lakenheath          Construct Hydrant Fuel             13,500         13,500
                                                        System.
                             Virginia
Def-Wide                       Pentagon                Pentagon Metro Entrance            12,111         12,111
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Pentagon                Upgrade IT Facilities               8,105          8,105
                                                        Infrastructure--RRMC.
                             Wake Island
Def-Wide                       Wake Island             Test Support Facility......        11,670         11,670
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Battalion Complex..........             0              0
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Contingency Construction...        10,000              0
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Conservation                10,000              0
                                Locations               Investment Program Design.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Conservation               150,000        150,000
                                Locations               Investment Program.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor              8,631          8,631
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design,               13,450         23,450
                                Locations               Defense Wide.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design, DODEA.        23,585         23,585
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design, NGA...        71,647         36,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design, NSA...        24,000         24,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design, WHS...         3,427          3,427
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000          3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000          3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   5,994          5,994
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   8,500          8,500
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor Milcon...         3,913          3,913
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Worldwide Unspecified Minor         2,414          2,414
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning & Design, DLA.....        27,660         27,660
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning and Design, SOCOM.        27,653         27,653
                                Locations
                             Worldwide Unspecified
                              Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design, MDA.....             0         15,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                        2,056,091      2,025,444
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO                           NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          177,932        177,932
                                Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      NATO Security Investment Program Total                                             177,932        177,932
                               ......................
                             Colorado
Army NG                        Fort Carson             National Guard Readiness                0         16,500
                                                        Center.
                             Hawaii
Army NG                        Hilo                    Combined Support                   31,000         31,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Iowa
Army NG                        Davenport               National Guard Readiness           23,000         23,000
                                                        Center.
                             Kansas
Army NG                        Fort Leavenworth        National Guard Readiness           29,000         29,000
                                                        Center.
                             New Hampshire
Army NG                        Hooksett                National Guard Vehicle             11,000         11,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
Army NG                        Rochester               National Guard Vehicle              8,900          8,900
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Oklahoma
Army NG                        Ardmore                 National Guard Readiness           22,000         22,000
                                                        Center.
                             Pennsylvania
Army NG                        Fort Indiantown Gap     Access Control Buildings...             0         20,000
Army NG                        York                    National Guard Readiness            9,300          9,300
                                                        Center.
                             Rhode Island
Army NG                        East Greenwich          National Guard/Reserve             20,000         20,000
                                                        Center Building (JFHQ).
                             Utah
Army NG                        Camp Williams           National Guard Readiness           37,000         37,000
                                                        Center.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         8,729          8,729
                                Locations
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  12,001         12,001
                                Locations               Construction.
                             Wyoming
Army NG                        Camp Guernsey           General Instruction                     0         31,000
                                                        Building.
Army NG                        Laramie                 National Guard Readiness           21,000         21,000
                                                        Center.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army National Guard Total                                   232,930        300,430
                               ......................
                             Arizona
Army Res                       Phoenix                 Army Reserve Center........             0         30,000
                             California
Army Res                       Barstow                 Equipment Concentration                 0              0
                                                        Site.
Army Res                       Camp Parks              Transient Training Barracks        19,000         19,000
Army Res                       Fort Hunter Liggett     Emergency Services Center..        21,500         21,500
                             Virginia
Army Res                       Dublin                  Organizational Maintenance          6,000          6,000
                                                        Shop/AMSA.
                             Washington
Army Res                       Joint Base Lewis-       Army Reserve Center........             0              0
                                McChord
                             Wisconsin
Army Res                       Fort McCoy              AT/MOB Dining Facility.....        11,400         11,400
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         7,500          7,500
                                Locations
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   2,830          2,830
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Reserve Total                                           68,230         98,230
                               ......................
                             Louisiana
N/MC Res                       New Orleans             Joint Reserve Intelligence         11,207         11,207
                                                        Center.
                             New York
N/MC Res                       Brooklyn                Electric Feeder Ductbank...         1,964          1,964
N/MC Res                       Syracuse                Marine Corps Reserve Center        13,229         13,229
                             Texas
N/MC Res                       Galveston               Reserve Center Annex.......         8,414          8,414
                             Worldwide Unspecified
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Planning & Design.....         3,783          3,783
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Naval Reserve Total                                          38,597         38,597
                               ......................
                             Connecticut
Air NG                         Bradley IAP             Construct Small Air                 6,300          6,300
                                                        Terminal.
                             Florida
Air NG                         Jacksonville IAP        Replace Fire Crash/Rescue           9,000          9,000
                                                        Station.
                             Hawaii
Air NG                         Joint Base Pearl        F-22 Composite Repair              11,000         11,000
                                Harbor-Hickam           Facility.
                             Iowa
Air NG                         Sioux Gateway Airport   Construct Consolidated             12,600         12,600
                                                        Support Functions.
                             Maryland
Air NG                         Joint Base Andrews      Munitions Load Crew Trng/               0          5,000
                                                        Corrosion Cntrl Facility.
                             Minnesota
Air NG                         Duluth IAP              Load Crew Training/Weapon           7,600          7,600
                                                        Shops.
                             New Hampshire
Air NG                         Pease International     KC-46A Install Fuselage             1,500          1,500
                                Trade Port              Trainer Bldg 251.
                             North Carolina
Air NG                         Charlotte/Douglas IAP   C-17 Corrosion Control/Fuel        29,600         29,600
                                                        Cell Hangar.
Air NG                         Charlotte/Douglas IAP   C-17 Type III Hydrant              21,000         21,000
                                                        Refueling System.
                             Ohio
Air NG                         Toledo Express Airport  Indoor Small Arms Range....             0          6,000
                             South Carolina
Air NG                         McEntire ANGS           Replace Operations and              8,400          8,400
                                                        Training Facility.
                             Texas
Air NG                         Ellington Field         Consolidate Crew Readiness          4,500          4,500
                                                        Facility.
                             Vermont
Air NG                         Burlington IAP          F-35 Beddown 4-Bay Flight           4,500          4,500
                                                        Simulator.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air NG                         Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  17,495         17,495
                                Locations               Construction.
Air NG                         Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        10,462         10,462
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air National Guard Total                                    143,957        154,957
                               ......................
                             Guam
AF Res                         Andersen AFB            Reserve Medical Training                0              0
                                                        Facility.
                             Massachusetts
AF Res                         Westover ARB            Indoor Small Arms Range....             0              0
                             North Carolina
AF Res                         Seymour Johnson AFB     KC-46A ADAL Bldg for AGE/           5,700          5,700
                                                        Fuselage Training.
AF Res                         Seymour Johnson AFB     KC-46A ADAL Squadron                2,250          2,250
                                                        Operations Facilities.
AF Res                         Seymour Johnson AFB     KC-46A Two Bay Corrosion/          90,000         90,000
                                                        Fuel Cell Hangar.
                             Pennsylvania
AF Res                         Pittsburgh IAP          C-17 ADAL Fuel Hydrant             22,800         22,800
                                                        System.
AF Res                         Pittsburgh IAP          C-17 Const/OverlayTaxiway           8,200          8,200
                                                        and Apron.
AF Res                         Pittsburgh IAP          C-17 Construct Two Bay             54,000         54,000
                                                        Corrosion/Fuel Hangar.
                             Utah
AF Res                         Hill AFB                ADAL Life Support Facility.             0              0
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF Res                         Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design..........         4,500          4,500
                                Locations
AF Res                         Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   1,500          1,500
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Reserve Total                                     188,950        188,950
                               ......................
                             Korea
FH Con Army                    Camp Humphreys          Family Housing New                143,563        100,000
                                                        Construction, Incr 1.
FH Con Army                    Camp Walker             Family Housing New                 54,554         54,554
                                                        Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design..........         2,618          2,618
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Army Total                                            200,735        157,172
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        10,178         10,178
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              19,146         19,146
                                Locations               Support.
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................       131,761        131,761
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................        60,745         60,745
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................        40,344         40,344
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............           400            400
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................         7,993          7,993
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        55,428         55,428
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Army Total                               325,995        325,995
                               ......................
                             Mariana Islands
FH Con Navy                    Guam                    Replace Andersen Housing Ph        78,815         78,815
                                                        I.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements..        11,047         11,047
                                Locations
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design..........         4,149          4,149
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Navy And Marine Corps Total                            94,011         94,011
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        17,457         17,457
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              26,320         26,320
                                Locations               Support.
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        54,689         54,689
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................        81,254         81,254
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................        51,291         51,291
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............           364            364
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................        12,855         12,855
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        56,685         56,685
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Navy And Marine Corps Total              300,915        300,915
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Construction Improvements..        56,984         56,984
                                Locations
FH Con AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Planning & Design..........         4,368          4,368
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Air Force Total                                        61,352         61,352
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        31,690         31,690
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization              41,809         41,809
                                Locations               Support.
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        20,530         20,530
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................        85,469         85,469
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................        42,919         42,919
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............         1,745          1,745
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................        13,026         13,026
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        37,241         37,241
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Air Force Total                          274,429        274,429
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................            20             20
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................           500            500
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................           399            399
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        40,984         40,984
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        11,044         11,044
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................           349            349
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................           800            800
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management.................           388            388
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................            32             32
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................         4,100          4,100
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................           174            174
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................           367            367
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Defense-Wide Total                        59,157         59,157
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FHIF                           Unspecified Worldwide   Program Expenses...........         3,258          3,258
                                Locations
                             ........................
      DoD Family Housing Improvement Fund Total                                            3,258          3,258
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment and               14,499         24,499
                                Closure, Army           Closure.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Army Total                                            14,499         24,499
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment & Closure.       110,606        135,606
                                Closure, Navy
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-100: Planning, Design           4,604          4,604
                                Locations               and Management.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-101: Various Locations.        10,461         10,461
                                Locations
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-138: NAS Brunswick, ME.           557            557
                                Locations
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-157: MCSA Kansas City,            100            100
                                Locations               MO.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-172: NWS Seal Beach,            4,648          4,648
                                Locations               Concord, CA.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-84: JRB Willow Grove &          3,397          3,397
                                Locations               Cambria Reg AP.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Navy Total                                           134,373        159,373
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DoD BRAC Activities--Air           56,365         56,365
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Air Force Total                                       56,365         56,365
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design,                    0        -30,000
                                Locations               Defense Wide.
PYS                            Worldwide               Air Force..................             0        -51,460
PYS                            Worldwide               Army.......................             0        -29,602
PYS                            Worldwide               Defense-Wide...............             0       -141,600
PYS                            Worldwide               Navy.......................             0              0
                             Worldwide Unspecified
                              Locations
PYS                            Worldwide               HAP........................             0        -25,000
PYS                            Worldwide               NSIP.......................             0        -30,000
                             ........................
      Prior Year Savings Total                                                                 0       -307,662
                               ......................
      Total, Military Construction                                                     7,444,056      7,709,565
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4602. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                  State/Country and                                       FY 2017     Conference
           Account                   Installation                Project Title           Request     Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Army                            Unspecified Worldwide    ERI: Planning and Design....       18,900        18,900
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                     18,900        18,900
                                .......................
                              Iceland
Navy                            Keflavik                 ERI: P-8A Aircraft Rinse            5,000         5,000
                                                          Rack.
Navy                            Keflavik                 ERI: P-8A Hangar Upgrade....       14,600        14,600
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                            Unspecified Worldwide    ERI: Planning and Design....        1,800         1,800
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                     21,400        21,400
                                .......................
                              Bulgaria
AF                              Graf Ignatievo           ERI: Construct Sq Ops/              3,800         3,800
                                                          Operational Alert Fac.
AF                              Graf Ignatievo           ERI: Fighter Ramp Extension.        7,000         7,000
AF                              Graf Ignatievo           ERI: Upgrade Munitions              2,600         2,600
                                                          Storage Area.
                              Djibouti
AF                              Chabelley Airfield       OCO: Construct Chabelley            3,600         3,600
                                                          Access Road.
AF                              Chabelley Airfield       OCO: Construct Parking Apron        6,900         6,900
                                                          and Taxiway.
                              Estonia
AF                              Amari AB                 ERI: Construct Bulk Fuel            6,500         6,500
                                                          Storage.
                              Germany
AF                              Spangdahlem AB           ERI: Construct High Cap Trim        1,000         1,000
                                                          Pad & Hush House.
AF                              Spangdahlem AB           ERI: F/A-22 Low Observable/        12,000        12,000
                                                          Comp Repair Fac.
AF                              Spangdahlem AB           ERI: F/A-22 Upgrade                 1,600         1,600
                                                          Infrastructure/Comm/Util.
AF                              Spangdahlem AB           ERI: Upgrade Hardened               2,700         2,700
                                                          Aircraft Shelters.
AF                              Spangdahlem AB           ERI: Upgrade Munitions              1,400         1,400
                                                          Storage Doors.
                              Lithuania
AF                              Siauliai                 ERI: Munitions Storage......        3,000         3,000
                              Poland
AF                              Lask AB                  ERI: Construct Squadron             4,100         4,100
                                                          Operations Facility.
AF                              Powidz AB                ERI: Construct Squadron             4,100         4,100
                                                          Operations Facility.
                              Romania
AF                              Campia Turzii            ERI: Construct Munitions            3,000         3,000
                                                          Storage Area.
AF                              Campia Turzii            ERI: Construct Squadron             3,400         3,400
                                                          Operations Facility.
AF                              Campia Turzii            ERI: Construct Two-Bay              6,100         6,100
                                                          Hangar.
AF                              Campia Turzii            ERI: Extend Parking Aprons..        6,000         6,000
                              Worldwide Unspecified
AF                              Unspecified Worldwide    CTP: Planning and Design....        9,000         8,551
                                 Locations
AF                              Unspecified Worldwide    OCO: Planning and Design....          940           940
                                 Locations
                              .........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                                88,740        88,291
                                .......................
                              Worldwide Unspecified
Def-Wide                        Unspecified Worldwide    ERI: Unspecified Minor              5,000         5,000
                                 Locations                Construction.
                              .........................
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                              5,000         5,000
                                .......................
      Total, Military Construction                                                         134,040       133,591
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4603. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS 
FOR BASE REQUIREMENTS.


----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4603. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS FOR BASE REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of
                                                    Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                       FY 2017       Conference
      Service          State/Country and Installation             Project             Request       Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     Djibouti
Navy                   Camp Lemonier                    OCO: Medical/Dental               37,409         37,409
                                                         Facility.
                     Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                   Unspecified Worldwide Locations  Planning and Design.......         1,000          1,000
                     .................................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                   38,409         38,409
                       ...............................
      Total, Military Construction                                                        38,409         38,409
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.


------------------------------------------------------------------------
      SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In
                         Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2017       Conference
                  Program                     Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary By Appropriation
  Energy And Water Development, And
   Related Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear Energy......................       151,876        136,616
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National nuclear security
       administration:
        Weapons activities................     9,243,147      9,429,029
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     1,807,916      1,886,916
        Naval reactors....................     1,420,120      1,417,620
        Federal salaries and expenses.....       412,817        395,517
      Total, National nuclear security        12,884,000     13,129,082
       administration.....................
 
      Environmental and other defense
       activities:
        Defense environmental cleanup.....     5,382,050      5,273,558
        Other defense activities..........       791,552        789,552
      Total, Environmental & other defense     6,173,602      6,063,110
       activities.........................
    Total, Atomic Energy Defense              19,057,602     19,192,192
     Activities...........................
Total, Discretionary Funding..............    19,209,478     19,328,808
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       129,303        129,303
  Idaho operations and maintenance........         7,313          7,313
  Consent Based Siting....................        15,260              0
    Denial of funds for defense-only                           [-15,260]
     repository...........................
Total, Nuclear Energy.....................       151,876        136,616
 
Weapons Activities
  Directed stockpile work
    Life extension programs
      B61 Life extension program..........       616,079        616,079
      W76 Life extension program..........       222,880        222,880
      W88 Alt 370.........................       281,129        281,129
      W80-4 Life extension program........       220,253        220,253
    Total, Life extension programs........     1,340,341      1,340,341
 
    Stockpile systems
      B61 Stockpile systems...............        57,313         57,313
      W76 Stockpile systems...............        38,604         38,604
      W78 Stockpile systems...............        56,413         56,413
      W80 Stockpile systems...............        64,631         64,631
      B83 Stockpile systems...............        41,659         41,659
      W87 Stockpile systems...............        81,982         81,982
      W88 Stockpile systems...............       103,074        103,074
    Total, Stockpile systems..............       443,676        443,676
 
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition
      Operations and maintenance..........        68,984         56,000
        Denial of dismantlement                                [-12,984]
         acceleration.....................
 
    Stockpile services
      Production support..................       457,043        457,043
      Research and development support....        34,187         34,187
      R&D certification and safety........       156,481        156,481
      Management, technology, and                251,978        251,978
       production.........................
    Total, Stockpile services.............       899,689        899,689
 
    Nuclear material commodities
      Uranium sustainment.................        20,988         20,988
      Plutonium sustainment...............       184,970        184,970
      Tritium sustainment.................       109,787        109,787
      Domestic uranium enrichment.........        50,000         50,000
      Strategic materials sustainment.....       212,092        212,092
    Total, Nuclear material commodities...       577,837        577,837
  Total, Directed stockpile work..........     3,330,527      3,317,543
 
  Research, development, test and
   evaluation (RDT&E)
    Science
      Advanced certification..............        58,000         58,000
      Primary assessment technologies.....        99,000         99,000
      Dynamic materials properties........       106,000        106,000
      Advanced radiography................        50,500         50,500
      Secondary assessment technologies...        76,000         76,000
      Academic alliances and partnerships.        52,484         52,484
    Total, Science........................       441,984        441,984
 
    Engineering
      Enhanced surety.....................        37,196         37,196
      Weapon systems engineering                  16,958         16,958
       assessment technology..............
      Nuclear survivability...............        43,105         43,105
      Enhanced surveillance...............        42,228         42,228
    Total, Engineering ...................       139,487        139,487
 
    Inertial confinement fusion ignition
     and high yield
      Ignition............................        75,432         75,432
      Support of other stockpile programs.        23,363         23,363
      Diagnostics, cryogenics and                 68,696         68,696
       experimental support...............
      Pulsed power inertial confinement            5,616          5,616
       fusion.............................
      Joint program in high energy density         9,492          9,492
       laboratory plasmas.................
      Facility operations and target             340,360        340,360
       production.........................
    Total, Inertial confinement fusion and       522,959        522,959
     high yield...........................
 
    Advanced simulation and computing.....       663,184        656,184
      Program decrease....................                      [-7,000]
 
    Stockpile Responsiveness Program......             0         40,000
      Program increase....................                      [40,000]
 
    Advanced manufacturing
      Additive manufacturing..............        12,000         12,000
      Component manufacturing development.        46,583         46,583
      Processing technology development...        28,522         28,522
    Total, Advanced manufacturing.........        87,105         87,105
  Total, RDT&E............................     1,854,719      1,887,719
 
  Infrastructure and operations (formerly
   RTBF)
    Operating
      Operations of facilities
        Kansas City Plant.................       101,000        101,000
        Lawrence Livermore National               70,500         70,500
         Laboratory.......................
        Los Alamos National Laboratory....       196,500        196,500
        Nevada Test Site..................        92,500         92,500
        Pantex............................        55,000         55,000
        Sandia National Laboratory........       118,000        118,000
        Savannah River Site...............        83,500         83,500
        Y-12 National security complex....       107,000        107,000
      Total, Operations of facilities.....       824,000        824,000
 
    Safety and environmental operations...       110,000        110,000
 
    Maintenance and repair of facilities..       294,000        324,000
      Address high-priority preventative                        [30,000]
       maintenance........................
 
    Recapitalization:
      Infrastructure and safety...........       554,643        630,509
        Address high-priority deferred                          [75,866]
         maintenance......................
      Capability based investment.........       112,639        112,639
    Total, Recapitalization...............       667,282        743,148
 
    Construction:
      17-D-640 U1a Complex Enhancements           11,500         11,500
       Project, NNSS......................
      17-D-630 Electrical Infrastructure          25,000         25,000
       Upgrades, LLNL.....................
      16-D-515 Albuquerque complex                15,047         15,047
       upgrades project...................
      15-D-613 Emergency Operations                2,000          2,000
       Center, Y-12.......................
      15-D-302 TA-55 Reinvestment project,        21,455         21,455
       Phase 3, LANL......................
      07-D-220-04 Transuranic liquid waste        17,053         17,053
       facility, LANL.....................
      06-D-141 PED/Construction, UPF Y-12,       575,000        575,000
       Oak Ridge, TN......................
      04-D-125 Chemistry and metallurgy          159,615        159,615
       research replacement project, LANL.
    Total, Construction...................       826,670        826,670
  Total, Infrastructure and operations....     2,721,952      2,827,818
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       179,132        179,132
    Program direction.....................       103,600        103,600
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       282,732        282,732
 
  Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       657,133        693,133
      Support to physical security                              [36,000]
       infrastructure recapitalization and
       CSTART.............................
    Construction:
      14-D-710 Device assembly facility           13,000         13,000
       argus installation project, NV.....
      17-D-710 West end protected area                 0         24,000
       reduction project, Y-12............
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       670,133        730,133
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       176,592        176,592
  Legacy contractor pensions..............       248,492        248,492
  Rescission of prior year balances.......       -42,000        -42,000
Total, Weapons Activities.................     9,243,147      9,429,029
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D
      Global material security............       337,108        337,108
      Material management and minimization       341,094        321,094
        Program decrease..................                     [-20,000]
      Nonproliferation and arms control...       124,703        124,703
      Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D       393,922        417,922
        Acceleration of low-yield                                [4,000]
         detection experiments............
        Nuclear detection technology and                        [20,000]
         new challenges such as 3D
         printing.........................
      Low Enriched Uranium R&D for Naval               0          5,000
       Reactors...........................
        Low Enriched Uranium R&D for Naval                       [5,000]
         Reactors.........................
 
      Nonproliferation Construction:
        99-D-143 Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel          270,000        340,000
         Fabrication Facility, SRS........
          Increase to support construction                      [70,000]
      Total, Nonproliferation construction       270,000        340,000
    Total, Defense Nuclear                     1,466,827      1,545,827
     Nonproliferation Programs............
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        83,208         83,208
  Nuclear counterterrorism and incident          271,881        271,881
   response program.......................
  Rescission of prior year balances.......       -14,000        -14,000
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation...     1,807,916      1,886,916
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors operations and                  449,682        447,182
   infrastructure.........................
  Naval reactors development..............       437,338        437,338
  Ohio replacement reactor systems               213,700        213,700
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       124,000        124,000
  Program direction.......................        47,100         47,100
  Construction:
    17-D-911, BL Fire System Upgrade......         1,400          1,400
    15-D-904 NRF Overpack Storage                    700            700
     Expansion 3..........................
    15-D-902 KS Engineroom team trainer           33,300         33,300
     facility.............................
    14-D-901 Spent fuel handling                 100,000        100,000
     recapitalization project, NRF........
    10-D-903, Security upgrades, KAPL.....        12,900         12,900
  Total, Construction.....................       148,300        148,300
Total, Naval Reactors.....................     1,420,120      1,417,620
 
 
Federal Salaries And Expenses
  Program direction.......................       412,817        395,517
    Program decrease......................                     [-17,300]
Total, Office Of The Administrator........       412,817        395,517
 
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
  Closure sites:
    Closure sites administration..........         9,389          9,389
 
  Hanford site:
    River corridor and other cleanup              69,755        114,755
     operations...........................
      Acceleration of priority programs...                      [45,000]
    Central plateau remediation...........       620,869        644,369
      Acceleration of priority programs...                      [23,500]
    Richland community and regulatory             14,701         14,701
     support..............................
    Construction:
      15-D-401 Containerized sludge               11,486         11,486
       removal annex, RL..................
  Total, Hanford site.....................       716,811        785,311
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       359,088        359,088
    Idaho community and regulatory support         3,000          3,000
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       362,088        362,088
 
  Los Alamos National Laboratory
    EMLA cleanup activities...............       185,606        195,606
      Program Increase....................                      [10,000]
    EMLA community and regulatory support.         3,394          3,394
  Total, Los Alamos National Laboratory...       189,000        199,000
 
  NNSA sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,396          1,396
    Separations Process Research Unit.....         3,685          3,685
    Nevada................................        62,176         62,176
    Sandia National Laboratories..........         4,130          4,130
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..        71,387         71,387
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D
      OR Nuclear facility D & D...........        93,851         93,851
      Construction:
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury               5,100          5,100
         Treatment Facility...............
    Total, OR Nuclear facility D & D......        98,951         98,951
 
    U233 Disposition Program..............        37,311         37,311
    OR cleanup and disposition............        54,557         54,557
    OR reservation community and                   4,400          4,400
     regulatory support...................
    Oak Ridge technology development......         3,000          3,000
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       198,219        198,219
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste treatment and immobilization
     plant
      WTP operations......................         3,000          3,000
      15-D-409 Low activity waste                 73,000         73,000
       pretreatment system, ORP...........
      01-D-416 A-D/ORP-0060 / Major              690,000        690,000
       construction.......................
    Total, Waste treatment and                   766,000        766,000
     immobilization plant.................
 
    Tank farm activities
      Rad liquid tank waste stabilization        721,456        721,456
       and disposition....................
    Total, Tank farm activities...........       721,456        721,456
  Total, Office of River protection.......     1,487,456      1,487,456
 
  Savannah River sites:
    Nuclear Material Management...........       311,062        311,062
    Environmental Cleanup.................       152,504        152,504
    SR community and regulatory support...        11,249         11,249
 
    Radioactive liquid tank waste:
      Radioactive liquid tank waste              645,332        645,332
       stabilization and disposition......
      Construction:
        15-D-402--Saltstone Disposal Unit          7,577          7,577
         #6, SRS..........................
        17-D-401--Saltstone Disposal Unit          9,729          9,729
         #7...............................
        05-D-405 Salt waste processing           160,000        160,000
         facility, Savannah River Site....
      Total, Construction.................       177,306        177,306
    Total, Radioactive liquid tank waste..       822,638        822,638
  Total, Savannah River site..............     1,297,453      1,297,453
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Operations and maintenance............       257,188        267,188
      Program increase....................                      [10,000]
    Construction:
      15-D-411 Safety significant                  2,532          2,532
       confinement ventilation system,
       WIPP...............................
      15-D-412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP........         2,533          2,533
    Total, Construction...................         5,065          5,065
  Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant......       262,253        272,253
 
  Program direction.......................       290,050        290,050
  Program support.........................        14,979         14,979
  Safeguards and Security.................       255,973        255,973
  Technology development..................        30,000         30,000
  Infrastructure recapitalization.........        41,892              0
  Defense Uranium enrichment D&D..........       155,100              0
    Ahead of need.........................                    [-155,100]
Subtotal, Defense environmental cleanup...     5,382,050      5,273,558
 
Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup......     5,382,050      5,273,558
 
 
Other Defense Activities
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              130,693        128,693
     security.............................
    Program direction.....................        66,519         66,519
  Total, Environment, health, safety and         197,212        195,212
   security...............................
 
  Independent enterprise assessments
    Independent enterprise assessments....        24,580         24,580
    Program direction.....................        51,893         51,893
  Total, Independent enterprise                   76,473         76,473
   assessments............................
 
  Specialized security activities.........       237,912        237,912
 
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management.....................       140,306        140,306
    Program direction.....................        14,014         14,014
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       154,320        154,320
 
  Defense-related activities
  Defense related administrative support
    Chief financial officer...............        23,642         23,642
    Chief information officer.............        93,074         93,074
    Project management oversight and               3,000          3,000
     assessments..........................
  Total, Defense related administrative          119,716        116,716
   support................................
 
  Office of hearings and appeals..........         5,919          5,919
Subtotal, Other defense activities........       791,552        789,552
Total, Other Defense Activities...........       791,552        789,552
------------------------------------------------------------------------


          DIVISION E--UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE REFORM

SEC. 5001. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Justice Act of 2016''.

                      TITLE LI--GENERAL PROVISIONS

Sec. 5101. Definitions.
Sec. 5102. Clarification of persons subject to UCMJ while on inactive-
          duty training.
Sec. 5103. Staff judge advocate disqualification due to prior 
          involvement in case.
Sec. 5104. Conforming amendment relating to military magistrates.
Sec. 5105. Rights of victim.
SEC. 5101. DEFINITIONS.
    (a) Military Judge.--Paragraph (10) of section 801 of title 10, 
United States Code (article 1 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
is amended to read as follows:
        ``(10) The term `military judge' means a judge advocate 
    designated under section 826(c) of this title (article 26(c)) who 
    is detailed under section 826(a) or section 830a of this title 
    (article 26(a) or 30a).''.
    (b) Judge Advocate.--Paragraph (13) of such section (article) is 
amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``the Army or the Navy'' 
    and inserting ``the Army, the Navy, or the Air Force''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``the Air Force or''.
SEC. 5102. CLARIFICATION OF PERSONS SUBJECT TO UCMJ WHILE ON INACTIVE-
DUTY TRAINING.
    Paragraph (3) of section 802(a) of title 10, United States Code 
(article 2(a) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to 
read as follows:
        ``(3)(A) While on inactive-duty training and during any of the 
    periods specified in subparagraph (B)--
            ``(i) members of a reserve component; and
            ``(ii) members of the Army National Guard of the United 
        States or the Air National Guard of the United States, but only 
        when in Federal service.
        ``(B) The periods referred to in subparagraph (A) are the 
    following:
            ``(i) Travel to and from the inactive-duty training site of 
        the member, pursuant to orders or regulations.
            ``(ii) Intervals between consecutive periods of inactive-
        duty training on the same day, pursuant to orders or 
        regulations.
            ``(iii) Intervals between inactive-duty training on 
        consecutive days, pursuant to orders or regulations.''.
SEC. 5103. STAFF JUDGE ADVOCATE DISQUALIFICATION DUE TO PRIOR 
INVOLVEMENT IN CASE.
    Subsection (c) of section 806 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 6 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read 
as follows:
    ``(c)(1) No person who, with respect to a case, serves in a 
capacity specified in paragraph (2) may later serve as a staff judge 
advocate or legal officer to any reviewing or convening authority upon 
the same case.
    ``(2) The capacities referred to in paragraph (1) are, with respect 
to the case involved, any of the following:
        ``(A) Preliminary hearing officer, court member, military 
    judge, military magistrate, or appellate judge.
        ``(B) Counsel who have acted in the same case or appeared in 
    any proceeding before a military judge, military magistrate, 
    preliminary hearing officer, or appellate court.''.
SEC. 5104. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO MILITARY MAGISTRATES.
    The first sentence of section 806a(a) of title 10, United States 
Code (article 6a(a) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended by striking ``military judge'' and all that follows through the 
end of the sentence and inserting ``military appellate judge, military 
judge, or military magistrate to perform the duties of the position 
involved.''.
SEC. 5105. RIGHTS OF VICTIM.
    (a) Designation of Representative.--Subsection (c) of section 806b 
of title 10, United States Code (article 6b of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended in the first sentence by striking ``the 
military judge'' and all that follows through the end of the sentence 
and inserting the following: ``the legal guardians of the victim or the 
representatives of the victim's estate, family members, or any other 
person designated as suitable by the military judge, may assume the 
rights of the victim under this section.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Subsection (d) of such section (article) 
is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) to impair the exercise of discretion under sections 830 
    and 834 of this title (articles 30 and 34).''.
    (c) Interview of Victim.--Such section (article) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Counsel for Accused Interview of Victim of Alleged Offense.--
(1) Upon notice by counsel for the Government to counsel for the 
accused of the name of an alleged victim of an offense under this 
chapter who counsel for the Government intends to call as a witness at 
a proceeding under this chapter, counsel for the accused shall make any 
request to interview the victim through the Special Victims' Counsel or 
other counsel for the victim, if applicable.
    ``(2) If requested by an alleged victim who is subject to a request 
for interview under paragraph (1), any interview of the victim by 
counsel for the accused shall take place only in the presence of the 
counsel for the Government, a counsel for the victim, or, if 
applicable, a victim advocate.''.

                 TITLE LII--APPREHENSION AND RESTRAINT

Sec. 5121. Restraint of persons charged.
Sec. 5122. Modification of prohibition of confinement of members of the 
          Armed Forces with enemy prisoners and certain others.
SEC. 5121. RESTRAINT OF PERSONS CHARGED.
    Section 810 of title 10, United States Code (article 10 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 810. Art. 10. Restraint of persons charged
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), any person subject 
to this chapter who is charged with an offense under this chapter may 
be ordered into arrest or confinement as the circumstances require.
    ``(2) When a person subject to this chapter is charged only with an 
offense that is normally tried by summary court-martial, the person 
ordinarily shall not be ordered into confinement.
    ``(b) Notification to Accused and Related Procedures.--(1) When a 
person subject to this chapter is ordered into arrest or confinement 
before trial, immediate steps shall be taken--
        ``(A) to inform the person of the specific offense of which the 
    person is accused; and
        ``(B) to try the person or to dismiss the charges and release 
    the person.
    ``(2) To facilitate compliance with paragraph (1), the President 
shall prescribe regulations setting forth procedures relating to 
referral for trial, including procedures for prompt forwarding of the 
charges and specifications and, if applicable, the preliminary hearing 
report submitted under section 832 of this title (article 32).''.
SEC. 5122. MODIFICATION OF PROHIBITION OF CONFINEMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE 
ARMED FORCES WITH ENEMY PRISONERS AND CERTAIN OTHERS.
    Section 812 of title 10, United States Code (article 12 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 812. Art. 12. Prohibition of confinement of members of the armed 
   forces with enemy prisoners and certain others
    ``No member of the armed forces may be placed in confinement in 
immediate association with--
        ``(1) enemy prisoners; or
        ``(2) other individuals--
            ``(A) who are detained under the law of war and are foreign 
        nationals; and
            ``(B) who are not members of the armed forces.''.

                  TITLE LIII--NON-JUDICIAL PUNISHMENT

Sec. 5141. Modification of confinement as non-judicial punishment.
SEC. 5141. MODIFICATION OF CONFINEMENT AS NON-JUDICIAL PUNISHMENT.
    Section 815 of title 10, United States Code (article 15 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``on bread and water 
        or diminished rations''; and
            (B) in the undesignated matter after paragraph (2), by 
        striking ``on bread and water or diminished rations'' in the 
        sentence beginning ``No two or more''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``on bread and water or 
    diminished rations'' in paragraphs (2) and (3).

                 TITLE LIV--COURT-MARTIAL JURISDICTION

Sec. 5161. Courts-martial classified.
Sec. 5162. Jurisdiction of general courts-martial.
Sec. 5163. Jurisdiction of special courts-martial.
Sec. 5164. Summary court-martial as non-criminal forum.
SEC. 5161. COURTS-MARTIAL CLASSIFIED.
    Section 816 of title 10, United States Code (article 16 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 816. Art 16. Courts-martial classified
    ``(a) In General.--The three kinds of courts-martial in each of the 
armed forces are the following:
        ``(1) General courts-martial, as described in subsection (b).
        ``(2) Special courts-martial, as described in subsection (c).
        ``(3) Summary courts-martial, as described in subsection (d).
    ``(b) General Courts-martial.--General courts-martial are of the 
following three types:
        ``(1) A general court-martial consisting of a military judge 
    and eight members, subject to sections 825(d)(3) and 829 of this 
    title (articles 25(d)(3) and 29).
        ``(2) In a capital case, a general court-martial consisting of 
    a military judge and the number of members determined under section 
    825a of this title (article 25a), subject to sections 825(d)(3) and 
    829 of this title (articles 25(d)(3) and 29).
        ``(3) A general court-martial consisting of a military judge 
    alone, if, before the court is assembled, the accused, knowing the 
    identity of the military judge and after consultation with defense 
    counsel, requests, orally on the record or in writing, a court 
    composed of a military judge alone and the military judge approves 
    the request.
    ``(c) Special Courts-martial.--Special courts-martial are of the 
following two types:
        ``(1) A special court-martial consisting of a military judge 
    and four members, subject to sections 825(d)(3) and 829 of this 
    title (articles 25(d)(3) and 29).
        ``(2) A special court-martial consisting of a military judge 
    alone--
            ``(A) if the case is so referred by the convening 
        authority, subject to section 819 of this title (article 19) 
        and such limitations as the President may prescribe by 
        regulation; or
            ``(B) if the case is referred under paragraph (1) and, 
        before the court is assembled, the accused, knowing the 
        identity of the military judge and after consultation with 
        defense counsel, requests, orally on the record or in writing, 
        a court composed of a military judge alone and the military 
        judge approves the request.
    ``(d) Summary Court-martial.--A summary court-martial consists of 
one commissioned officer.''.
SEC. 5162. JURISDICTION OF GENERAL COURTS-MARTIAL.
    Section 818 of title 10, United States Code (article 18 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``section 816(1)(B) of this 
    title (article 16(1)(B))'' and inserting ``section 816(b)(3) of 
    this title (article 16(b)(3))''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Consistent with sections 819 and 820 of this title (articles 
19 and 20), only general courts-martial have jurisdiction over the 
following offenses:
        ``(1) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of section 920 of 
    this title (article 120).
        ``(2) A violation of subsection (a) or (b) of section 920b of 
    this title (article 120b).
        ``(3) An attempt to commit an offense specified in paragraph 
    (1) or (2) that is punishable under section 880 of this title 
    (article 80).''.
SEC. 5163. JURISDICTION OF SPECIAL COURTS-MARTIAL.
    Section 819 of title 10, United States Code (article 19 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Subject to'' in the first sentence and 
    inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--Subject to'';
        (2) by striking ``A bad-conduct discharge'' and all that 
    follows through the end; and
        (3) by adding after subsection (a), as designated by paragraph 
    (1), the following new subsections:
    ``(b) Additional Limitation.--Neither a bad-conduct discharge, nor 
confinement for more than six months, nor forfeiture of pay for more 
than six months may be adjudged if charges and specifications are 
referred to a special court-martial consisting of a military judge 
alone under section 816(c)(2)(A) of this title (article 16(c)(2)(A)).
    ``(c) Military Magistrate.--If charges and specifications are 
referred to a special court-martial consisting of a military judge 
alone under section 816(c)(2)(A) of this title (article 16(c)(2)(A)), 
the military judge, with the consent of the parties, may designate a 
military magistrate to preside over the special court-martial.''.
SEC. 5164. SUMMARY COURT-MARTIAL AS NON-CRIMINAL FORUM.
    Section 820 of title 10, United States Code (article 20 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a) In General.--'' before ``Subject to''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Non-criminal Forum.--A summary court-martial is a non-
criminal forum. A finding of guilty at a summary court-martial does not 
constitute a criminal conviction.''.

                TITLE LV--COMPOSITION OF COURTS-MARTIAL

Sec. 5181. Technical amendment relating to persons authorized to convene 
          general courts-martial.
Sec. 5182. Who may serve on courts-martial and related matters.
Sec. 5183. Number of court-martial members in capital cases.
Sec. 5184. Detailing, qualifications, and other matters relating to 
          military judges.
Sec. 5185. Military magistrates.
Sec. 5186. Qualifications of trial counsel and defense counsel.
Sec. 5187. Assembly and impaneling of members and related matters.
SEC. 5181. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO PERSONS AUTHORIZED TO 
CONVENE GENERAL COURTS-MARTIAL.
    Section 822(a)(6) of title 10, United States Code (article 22(a)(6) 
of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking ``in 
chief''.
SEC. 5182. WHO MAY SERVE ON COURTS-MARTIAL AND RELATED MATTERS.
    (a) Who May Serve on Courts-martial.--Subsection (c) of section 825 
of title 10, United States Code (article 25 of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c)(1) Any enlisted member on active duty is eligible to serve on 
a general or special court-martial for the trial of any other enlisted 
member.
    ``(2) Before a court-martial with a military judge and members is 
assembled for trial, an enlisted member who is an accused may 
personally request, orally on the record or in writing, that--
        ``(A) the membership of the court-martial be comprised entirely 
    of officers; or
        ``(B) enlisted members comprise at least one-third of the 
    membership of the court-martial, regardless of whether enlisted 
    members have been detailed to the court-martial.
    ``(3) Except as provided in paragraph (4), after such a request, 
the accused may not be tried by a general or special court-martial if 
the membership of the court-martial is inconsistent with the request.
    ``(4) If, because of physical conditions or military exigencies, a 
sufficient number of eligible officers or enlisted members, as the case 
may be, is not available to carry out paragraph (2), the trial may 
nevertheless be held. In that event, the convening authority shall make 
a detailed written statement of the reasons for nonavailability. The 
statement shall be appended to the record.''.
    (b) Who May Sentence.--Such section (article) is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (e) 
    and (f), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d)(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) for capital offenses, 
the accused in a court-martial with a military judge and members may, 
after the findings are announced and before any matter is presented in 
the sentencing phase, request, orally on the record or in writing, 
sentencing by members.
    ``(2) In a capital case, the accused shall be sentenced by the 
members for all offenses for which the court-martial may sentence the 
accused to death in accordance with section 853(c) of this title 
(article 53(c)).
    ``(3) In a capital case, if the accused is convicted of a non-
capital offense, the accused shall be sentenced for such non-capital 
offense in accordance with section 853(b) of this title (article 
53(b)), regardless of whether the accused is convicted of an offense 
for which the court-martial may sentence the accused to death.''.
    (c) Detail of Members.--Subsection (e) of such section (article), 
as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of this section, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The convening authority shall detail not less than the number 
of members necessary to impanel the court-martial under section 829 of 
this title (article 29).''.
SEC. 5183. NUMBER OF COURT-MARTIAL MEMBERS IN CAPITAL CASES.
    Section 825a of title 10, United States Code (article 25a of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 825a. Art. 25a. Number of court-martial members in capital cases
    ``(a) In General.--In a case in which the accused may be sentenced 
to death, the number of members shall be 12.
    ``(b) Case No Longer Capital.--Subject to section 829 of this title 
(article 29)--
        ``(1) if a case is referred for trial as a capital case and, 
    before the members are impaneled, the accused may no longer be 
    sentenced to death, the number of members shall be eight; and
        ``(2) if a case is referred for trial as a capital case and, 
    after the members are impaneled, the accused may no longer be 
    sentenced to death, the number of members shall remain 12.''.
SEC. 5184. DETAILING, QUALIFICATIONS, AND OTHER MATTERS RELATING TO 
MILITARY JUDGES.
    (a) Detail to Special Courts-martial.--Subsection (a) of section 
826 of title 10, United States Code (article 26 of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by inserting after ``each general'' 
    the following: ``and special''; and
        (2) by striking the second sentence.
    (b) Qualifications.--Subsection (b) of such section (article) is 
amended by striking ``qualified for duty'' and inserting ``qualified, 
by reason of education, training, experience, and judicial temperament, 
for duty''.
    (c) Detail and Assignment.--Subsection (c) of such section 
(article) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c)(1) In accordance with regulations prescribed under subsection 
(a), a military judge of a general or special court-martial shall be 
designated for detail by the Judge Advocate General of the armed force 
of which the military judge is a member.
    ``(2) Neither the convening authority nor any member of the staff 
of the convening authority shall prepare or review any report 
concerning the effectiveness, fitness, or efficiency of the military 
judge so detailed, which relates to the military judge's performance of 
duty as a military judge.
    ``(3) A commissioned officer who is certified to be qualified for 
duty as a military judge of a general court-martial--
        ``(A) may perform such duties only when the officer is assigned 
    and directly responsible to the Judge Advocate General of the armed 
    force of which the military judge is a member; and
        ``(B) may perform duties of a judicial or nonjudicial nature 
    other than those relating to the officer's primary duty as a 
    military judge of a general court-martial when such duties are 
    assigned to the officer by or with the approval of that Judge 
    Advocate General.
    ``(4) In accordance with regulations prescribed by the President, 
assignments of military judges under this section (article) shall be 
for appropriate minimum periods, subject to such exceptions as may be 
authorized in the regulations.''.
    (d) Detail to a Different Armed Force.--Such section (article) is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) A military judge may be detailed under subsection (a) to a 
court-martial or a proceeding under section 830a of this title (article 
30a) that is convened in a different armed force, when so permitted by 
the Judge Advocate General of the armed force of which the military 
judge is a member.''.
    (e) Chief Trial Judges.--Such section (article), as amended by 
subsection (d), is further amended by adding at the end the following 
new subsection:
    ``(g) In accordance with regulations prescribed by the President, 
each Judge Advocate General shall designate a chief trial judge from 
among the members of the applicable trial judiciary.''.
SEC. 5185. MILITARY MAGISTRATES.
    Subchapter V of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 826 (article 26 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice) the following new section (article):
``Sec. 826a. Art. 26a. Military magistrates
    ``(a) Qualifications.--A military magistrate shall be a 
commissioned officer of the armed forces who--
        ``(1) is a member of the bar of a Federal court or a member of 
    the bar of the highest court of a State; and
        ``(2) is certified to be qualified, by reason of education, 
    training, experience, and judicial temperament, for duty as a 
    military magistrate by the Judge Advocate General of the armed 
    force of which the officer is a member.
    ``(b) Duties.--In accordance with regulations prescribed by the 
Secretary concerned, in addition to duties when designated under 
section 819 or 830a of this title (article 19 or 30a), a military 
magistrate may be assigned to perform other duties of a nonjudicial 
nature.''.
SEC. 5186. QUALIFICATIONS OF TRIAL COUNSEL AND DEFENSE COUNSEL.
    Section 827 of title 10, United States Code (article 27 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (2) of subsection (a), 
    by striking ``No person'' and all that follows through ``trial 
    counsel,'' the first place it appears and inserting ``No person 
    who, with respect to a case, has served as a preliminary hearing 
    officer, court member, military judge, military magistrate, or 
    appellate judge, may later serve as trial counsel,'';
        (2) in the first sentence of subsection (b), by striking 
    ``Trial counsel or defense counsel'' and inserting ``Trial counsel, 
    defense counsel, or assistant defense counsel''; and
        (3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(c)(1) Defense counsel and assistant defense counsel detailed for 
a special court-martial shall have the qualifications set forth in 
subsection (b).
    ``(2) Trial counsel and assistant trial counsel detailed for a 
special court-martial and assistant trial counsel detailed for a 
general court-martial must be determined to be competent to perform 
such duties by the Judge Advocate General, under such rules as the 
President may prescribe.
    ``(d) To the greatest extent practicable, in any capital case, at 
least one defense counsel shall, as determined by the Judge Advocate 
General, be learned in the law applicable to such cases. If necessary, 
this counsel may be a civilian and, if so, may be compensated in 
accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense.''.
SEC. 5187. ASSEMBLY AND IMPANELING OF MEMBERS AND RELATED MATTERS.
    Section 829 of title 10, United States Code (article 29 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 829. Art 29. Assembly and impaneling of members; detail of new 
   members and military judges
    ``(a) Assembly.--The military judge shall announce the assembly of 
a general or special court-martial with members. After such a court-
martial is assembled, no member may be absent, unless the member is 
excused--
        ``(1) as a result of a challenge;
        ``(2) under subsection (b)(1)(B); or
        ``(3) by order of the military judge or the convening authority 
    for disability or other good cause.
    ``(b) Impaneling.--(1) Under rules prescribed by the President, the 
military judge of a general or special court-martial with members 
shall--
        ``(A) after determination of challenges, impanel the court-
    martial; and
        ``(B) excuse the members who, having been assembled, are not 
    impaneled.
    ``(2) In a general court-martial, the military judge shall 
impanel--
        ``(A) 12 members in a capital case; and
        ``(B) eight members in a noncapital case.
    ``(3) In a special court-martial, the military judge shall impanel 
four members.
    ``(c) Alternate Members.--In addition to members under subsection 
(b), the military judge shall impanel alternate members, if the 
convening authority authorizes alternate members.
    ``(d) Detail of New Members.--(1) If, after members are impaneled, 
the membership of the court-martial is reduced to--
        ``(A) fewer than 12 members with respect to a general court-
    martial in a capital case;
        ``(B) fewer than six members with respect to a general court-
    martial in a noncapital case; or
        ``(C) fewer than four members with respect to a special court-
    martial;
the trial may not proceed unless the convening authority details new 
members and, from among the members so detailed, the military judge 
impanels new members sufficient in number to provide the membership 
specified in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) The membership referred to in paragraph (1) is as follows:
        ``(A) 12 members with respect to a general court-martial in a 
    capital case.
        ``(B) At least six but not more than eight members with respect 
    to a general court-martial in a noncapital case.
        ``(C) Four members with respect to a special court-martial.
    ``(e) Detail of New Military Judge.--If the military judge is 
unable to proceed with the trial because of disability or otherwise, a 
new military judge shall be detailed to the court-martial.
    ``(f) Evidence.--(1) In the case of new members under subsection 
(d), the trial may proceed with the new members present after the 
evidence previously introduced is read or, in the case of audiotape, 
videotape, or similar recording, is played, in the presence of the new 
members, the military judge, the accused, and counsel for both sides.
    ``(2) In the case of a new military judge under subsection (e), the 
trial shall proceed as if no evidence had been introduced, unless the 
evidence previously introduced is read or, in the case of audiotape, 
videotape, or similar recording, is played, in the presence of the new 
military judge, the accused, and counsel for both sides.''.

                     TITLE LVI--PRE-TRIAL PROCEDURE

Sec. 5201. Charges and specifications.
Sec. 5202. Certain proceedings conducted before referral.
Sec. 5203. Preliminary hearing required before referral to general 
          court-martial.
Sec. 5204. Disposition guidance.
Sec. 5205. Advice to convening authority before referral for trial.
Sec. 5206. Service of charges and commencement of trial.
SEC. 5201. CHARGES AND SPECIFICATIONS.
    Section 830 of title 10, United States Code (article 30 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 830. Art 30. Charges and specifications
    ``(a) In General.--Charges and specifications--
        ``(1) may be preferred only by a person subject to this 
    chapter; and
        ``(2) shall be preferred by presentment in writing, signed 
    under oath before a commissioned officer of the armed forces who is 
    authorized to administer oaths.
    ``(b) Required Content.--The writing under subsection (a) shall 
state that--
        ``(1) the signer has personal knowledge of, or has 
    investigated, the matters set forth in the charges and 
    specifications; and
        ``(2) the matters set forth in the charges and specifications 
    are true, to the best of the knowledge and belief of the signer.
    ``(c) Duty of Proper Authority.--When charges and specifications 
are preferred under subsection (a), the proper authority shall, as soon 
as practicable--
        ``(1) inform the person accused of the charges and 
    specifications; and
        ``(2) determine what disposition should be made of the charges 
    and specifications in the interest of justice and discipline.''.
SEC. 5202. CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS CONDUCTED BEFORE REFERRAL.
    Subchapter VI of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 830 (article 30 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice) the following new section (article):
``Sec. 830a. Art. 30a. Certain proceedings conducted before referral
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Proceedings may be conducted to review the 
following matters before referral of charges and specifications to 
court-martial for trial in accordance with regulations prescribed by 
the President:
        ``(A) Pre-referral investigative subpoenas.
        ``(B) Pre-referral warrants or orders for electronic 
    communications.
        ``(C) Pre-referral matters referred by an appellate court.
    ``(2) The regulations prescribed under paragraph (1) shall--
        ``(A) include procedures for the review of such rulings that 
    may be ordered under this section as the President considers 
    appropriate; and
        ``(B) provide such limitations on the relief that may be 
    ordered under this section as the President considers appropriate.
    ``(3) If any matter in a proceeding under this section becomes a 
subject at issue with respect to charges that have been referred to a 
general or special court-martial, the matter shall be transferred to 
the military judge detailed to the court-martial.
    ``(b) Detail of Military Judge.--The Secretary concerned shall 
prescribe regulations providing for the manner in which military judges 
are detailed to proceedings under subsection (a)(1).
    ``(c) Discretion to Designate Magistrate to Preside.--In accordance 
with regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a military 
judge detailed to a proceeding under subsection (a)(1), other than a 
proceeding described in subparagraph (B) of that subsection, may 
designate a military magistrate to preside over the proceeding.''.
SEC. 5203. PRELIMINARY HEARING REQUIRED BEFORE REFERRAL TO GENERAL 
COURT-MARTIAL.
    (a) In General.--Section 832 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 32 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by 
striking the section heading and subsections (a), (b), and (c) and 
inserting the following:
``Sec. 832. Art. 32. Preliminary hearing required before referral to 
   general court-martial
    ``(a) In General.--(1)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a 
preliminary hearing shall be held before referral of charges and 
specifications for trial by general court-martial. The preliminary 
hearing shall be conducted by an impartial hearing officer, detailed by 
the convening authority in accordance with subsection (b).
    ``(B) Under regulations prescribed by the President, a preliminary 
hearing need not be held if the accused submits a written waiver to the 
convening authority and the convening authority determines that a 
hearing is not required.
    ``(2) The purpose of the preliminary hearing shall be limited to 
determining the following:
        ``(A) Whether or not the specification alleges an offense under 
    this chapter.
        ``(B) Whether or not there is probable cause to believe that 
    the accused committed the offense charged.
        ``(C) Whether or not the convening authority has court-martial 
    jurisdiction over the accused and over the offense.
        ``(D) A recommendation as to the disposition that should be 
    made of the case.
    ``(b) Hearing Officer.--(1) A preliminary hearing under this 
section shall be conducted by an impartial hearing officer, who--
        ``(A) whenever practicable, shall be a judge advocate who is 
    certified under section 827(b)(2) of this title (article 27(b)(2)); 
    or
        ``(B) when it is not practicable to appoint a judge advocate 
    because of exceptional circumstances, is not a judge advocate so 
    certified.
    ``(2) In the case of a hearing officer under paragraph (1)(B), a 
judge advocate who is certified under section 827(b)(2) of this title 
(article 27(b)(2)) shall be available to provide legal advice to the 
hearing officer.
    ``(3) Whenever practicable, the hearing officer shall be equal in 
grade or senior in grade to military counsel who are detailed to 
represent the accused or the Government at the preliminary hearing.
    ``(c) Report to Convening Authority.--After a preliminary hearing 
under this section, the hearing officer shall submit to the convening 
authority a written report (accompanied by a recording of the 
preliminary hearing under subsection (e)) that includes the following:
        ``(1) For each specification, a statement of the reasoning and 
    conclusions of the hearing officer with respect to determinations 
    under subsection (a)(2), including a summary of relevant witness 
    testimony and documentary evidence presented at the hearing and any 
    observations of the hearing officer concerning the testimony of 
    witnesses and the availability and admissibility of evidence at 
    trial.
        ``(2) Recommendations for any necessary modifications to the 
    form of the charges or specifications.
        ``(3) An analysis of any additional information submitted after 
    the hearing by the parties or by a victim of an offense, that, 
    under such rules as the President may prescribe, is relevant to 
    disposition under sections 830 and 834 of this title (articles 30 
    and 34).
        ``(4) A statement of action taken on evidence adduced with 
    respect to uncharged offenses, as described in subsection (f).''.
    (b) Sundry Amendments.--Subsection (d) of such section (article) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``subsection (a)'' in the 
    first sentence and inserting ``this section'';
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``in defense'' and all that 
    follows through the end and inserting ``that is relevant to the 
    issues for determination under subsection (a)(2).'';
        (3) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following new 
    sentence: ``A declination under this paragraph shall not serve as 
    the sole basis for ordering a deposition under section 849 of this 
    title (article 49).''; and
        (4) in paragraph (4), by striking ``the limited purposes of the 
    hearing, as provided in subsection (a)(2)'' and inserting 
    ``determinations under subsection (a)(2)''.
    (c) Reference to MCM.--Subsection (e) of such section (article) is 
amended by striking ``as prescribed by the Manual for Courts-Martial'' 
in the second sentence and inserting ``under such rules as the 
President may prescribe''.
    (d) Effect of Violation.--Subsection (g) of such section (article) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``A defect 
in a report under subsection (c) is not a basis for relief if the 
report is in substantial compliance with that subsection.''.
    (e) Conforming Amendments.--The following provisions are each 
amended by striking ``investigating officer'' and inserting 
``preliminary hearing officer'':
        (1) Section 806b(a)(3) of title 10, United States Code (article 
    6b(a)(3) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice).
        (2) Section 825(d)(2) of such title (article 25(d)(2) of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice).
        (3) Section 826(d) of such title (article 26(d) of the Uniform 
    Code of Military Justice).
SEC. 5204. DISPOSITION GUIDANCE.
    Section 833 of title 10, United States Code (article 33 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 833. Art 33. Disposition guidance
    ``The President shall direct the Secretary of Defense to issue, in 
consultation with the Secretary of the department in which the Coast 
Guard is operating when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, 
non-binding guidance regarding factors that commanders, convening 
authorities, staff judge advocates, and judge advocates should take 
into account when exercising their duties with respect to disposition 
of charges and specifications in the interest of justice and discipline 
under sections 830 and 834 of this title (articles 30 and 34). Such 
guidance shall take into account, with appropriate consideration of 
military requirements, the principles contained in official guidance of 
the Attorney General to attorneys for the Government with respect to 
disposition of Federal criminal cases in accordance with the principle 
of fair and evenhanded administration of Federal criminal law.''.
SEC. 5205. ADVICE TO CONVENING AUTHORITY BEFORE REFERRAL FOR TRIAL.
    Section 834 of title 10, United States Code (article 34 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 834. Art. 34. Advice to convening authority before referral for 
   trial
    ``(a) General Court-martial.--
        ``(1) Staff judge advocate advice required before referral.--
    Before referral of charges and specifications to a general court-
    martial for trial, the convening authority shall submit the matter 
    to the staff judge advocate for advice, which the staff judge 
    advocate shall provide to the convening authority in writing. The 
    convening authority may not refer a specification under a charge to 
    a general court-martial unless the staff judge advocate advises the 
    convening authority in writing that--
            ``(A) the specification alleges an offense under this 
        chapter;
            ``(B) there is probable cause to believe that the accused 
        committed the offense charged; and
            ``(C) a court-martial would have jurisdiction over the 
        accused and the offense.
        ``(2) Staff judge advocate recommendation as to disposition.--
    Together with the written advice provided under paragraph (1), the 
    staff judge advocate shall provide a written recommendation to the 
    convening authority as to the disposition that should be made of 
    the specification in the interest of justice and discipline.
        ``(3) Staff judge advocate advice and recommendation to 
    accompany referral.--When a convening authority makes a referral 
    for trial by general court-martial, the written advice of the staff 
    judge advocate under paragraph (1) and the written recommendation 
    of the staff judge advocate under paragraph (2) with respect to 
    each specification shall accompany the referral.
    ``(b) Special Court-martial; Convening Authority Consultation With 
Judge Advocate.--Before referral of charges and specifications to a 
special court-martial for trial, the convening authority shall consult 
a judge advocate on relevant legal issues.
    ``(c) General and Special Courts-martial; Correction of Charges and 
Specifications Before Referral.--Before referral for trial by general 
court-martial or special court-martial, changes may be made to charges 
and specifications--
        ``(1) to correct errors in form; and
        ``(2) when applicable, to conform to the substance of the 
    evidence contained in a report under section 832(c) of this title 
    (article 32(c)).
    ``(d) Referral Defined.--In this section, the term `referral' means 
the order of a convening authority that charges and specifications 
against an accused be tried by a specified court-martial.''.
SEC. 5206. SERVICE OF CHARGES AND COMMENCEMENT OF TRIAL.
    Section 835 of title 10, United States Code (article 35 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 835. Art. 35. Service of charges; commencement of trial
    ``(a) In General.--Trial counsel detailed for a court-martial under 
section 827 of this title (article 27) shall cause to be served upon 
the accused a copy of the charges and specifications referred for 
trial.
    ``(b) Commencement of Trial.--(1) Subject to paragraphs (2) and 
(3), no trial or other proceeding of a general court-martial or a 
special court-martial (including any session under section 839(a) of 
this title (article 39(a)) may be held over the objection of the 
accused--
        ``(A) with respect to a general court-martial, from the time of 
    service through the fifth day after the date of service; or
        ``(B) with respect to a special court-martial, from the time of 
    service through the third day after the date of service.
    ``(2) An objection under paragraph (1) may be raised only at the 
first session of the trial or other proceeding and only if the first 
session occurs before the end of the applicable period under paragraph 
(1)(A) or (1)(B). If the first session occurs before the end of the 
applicable period, the military judge shall, at that session, inquire 
as to whether the defense objects under this subsection.
    ``(3) This subsection shall not apply in time of war.''.

                      TITLE LVII--TRIAL PROCEDURE

Sec. 5221. Duties of assistant defense counsel.
Sec. 5222. Sessions.
Sec. 5223. Technical amendment relating to continuances.
Sec. 5224. Conforming amendments relating to challenges.
Sec. 5225. Statute of limitations.
Sec. 5226. Former jeopardy.
Sec. 5227. Pleas of the accused.
Sec. 5228. Subpoena and other process.
Sec. 5229. Refusal of person not subject to UCMJ to appear, testify, or 
          produce evidence.
Sec. 5230. Contempt.
Sec. 5231. Depositions.
Sec. 5232. Admissibility of sworn testimony by audiotape or videotape 
          from records of courts of inquiry.
Sec. 5233. Conforming amendment relating to defense of lack of mental 
          responsibility.
Sec. 5234. Voting and rulings.
Sec. 5235. Votes required for conviction, sentencing, and other matters.
Sec. 5236. Findings and sentencing.
Sec. 5237. Plea agreements.
Sec. 5238. Record of trial.
SEC. 5221. DUTIES OF ASSISTANT DEFENSE COUNSEL.
    Section 838(e) of title 10, United States Code (article 38(e) of 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking ``, under 
the direction'' and all that follows through ``(article 27),''.
SEC. 5222. SESSIONS.
    Section 839 of title 10, United States Code (article 39 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (3)--
                (i) by striking ``if permitted by regulations of the 
            Secretary concerned,''; and
                (ii) by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
        ``(4) conducting a sentencing proceeding and sentencing the 
    accused in non-capital cases unless the accused requests sentencing 
    by members under section 825 of this title (article 25); and''; and
        (2) in the second sentence of subsection (c), by striking ``, 
    in cases in which a military judge has been detailed to the 
    court,''.
SEC. 5223. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO CONTINUANCES.
    Section 840 of title 10, United States Code (article 40 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking ``court-
martial without a military judge'' and inserting ``summary court-
martial''.
SEC. 5224. CONFORMING AMENDMENTS RELATING TO CHALLENGES.
    Section 841 of title 10, United States Code (article 41 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ``, or, if none, the 
    court,'' in the second sentence;
        (2) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``minimum'' in the first 
    sentence; and
        (3) in subsection (b)(2), by striking ``minimum''.
SEC. 5225. STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS.
    (a) Increase in Period for Child Abuse Offenses.--Subsection 
(b)(2)(A) of section 843 of title 10, United States Code (article 43 of 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking ``five 
years'' and inserting ``ten years''.
    (b) Increase in Period for Fraudulent Enlistment or Appointment 
Offenses.--Such section (article) is further amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Fraudulent Enlistment or Appointment.--A person charged with 
fraudulent enlistment or fraudulent appointment under section 904a(1) 
of this title (article 104a(1)) may be tried by court-martial if the 
sworn charges and specifications are received by an officer exercising 
summary court-martial jurisdiction with respect to that person, as 
follows:
        ``(1) In the case of an enlisted member, during the period of 
    the enlistment or five years, whichever provides a longer period.
        ``(2) In the case of an officer, during the period of the 
    appointment or five years, whichever provides a longer period.''.
    (c) DNA Evidence.--Such section (article), as amended by subsection 
(b) of this section, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(i) Dna Evidence.--If DNA testing implicates an identified person 
in the commission of an offense punishable by confinement for more than 
one year, no statute of limitations that would otherwise preclude 
prosecution of the offense shall preclude such prosecution until a 
period of time following the implication of the person by DNA testing 
has elapsed that is equal to the otherwise applicable limitation 
period.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--Subsection (b)(2)(B) of such section 
(article) is amended by striking clauses (i) through (v) and inserting 
the following new clauses:
        ``(i) Any offense in violation of section 920, 920a, 920b, 
    920c, or 930 of this title (article 120, 120a, 120b, 120c, or 130), 
    unless the offense is covered by subsection (a).
        ``(ii) Maiming in violation of section 928a of this title 
    (article 128a).
        ``(iii) Aggravated assault, assault consummated by a battery, 
    or assault with intent to commit specified offenses in violation of 
    section 928 of this title (article 128).
        ``(iv) Kidnapping in violation of section 925 of this title 
    (article 125).''.
    (e) Subsection Heading Amendments for Stylistic Consistency.--Such 
section (article) is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``No Limitation for Certain 
    Offenses.--'' after ``(a)'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``Five-year Limitation for 
    Trial by Court-martial.--'' after ``(b)'';
        (3) in subsection (c), by inserting ``Tolling for Absence 
    Without Leave or Flight From Justice.--'' after ``(c)'';
        (4) in subsection (d), by inserting ``Tolling for Absence From 
    US or Military Jurisdiction.--'' after ``(d)'';
        (5) in subsection (e), by inserting ``Extension for Offenses in 
    Time of War Detrimental to Prosecution of War.--'' after ``(e)'';
        (6) in subsection (f), by inserting ``Extension for Other 
    Offenses in Time of War.--'' after ``(f)''; and
        (7) in subsection (g), by inserting ``Defective or Insufficient 
    Charges.--'' after ``(g)''.
    (f) Application.--The amendments made by subsections (a), (b), (c), 
and (d) shall apply to the prosecution of any offense committed before, 
on, or after the date of the enactment of this subsection if the 
applicable limitation period has not yet expired.
SEC. 5226. FORMER JEOPARDY.
    Subsection (c) of section 844 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 44 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(c)(1) A court-martial with a military judge alone is a trial in 
the sense of this section (article) if, without fault of the accused--
        ``(A) after introduction of evidence; and
        ``(B) before announcement of findings under section 853 of this 
    title (article 53);
the case is dismissed or terminated by the convening authority or on 
motion of the prosecution for failure of available evidence or 
witnesses.
    ``(2) A court-martial with a military judge and members is a trial 
in the sense of this section (article) if, without fault of the 
accused--
        ``(A) after the members, having taken an oath as members under 
    section 842 of this title (article 42) and after completion of 
    challenges under section 841 of this title (article 41), are 
    impaneled; and
        ``(B) before announcement of findings under section 853 of this 
    title (article 53);
the case is dismissed or terminated by the convening authority or on 
motion of the prosecution for failure of available evidence or 
witnesses.''.
SEC. 5227. PLEAS OF THE ACCUSED.
    (a) Pleas of Guilty.--Subsection (b) of section 845 of title 10, 
United States Code (article 45 of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``may be adjudged'' and 
    inserting ``is mandatory''; and
        (2) in the second sentence--
            (A) by striking ``or by a court-martial without a military 
        judge''; and
            (B) by striking ``, if permitted by regulations of the 
        Secretary concerned,''.
    (b) Harmless Error.--Such section (article) is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Harmless Error.--A variance from the requirements of this 
article is harmless error if the variance does not materially prejudice 
the substantial rights of the accused.''.
    (c) Subsection Heading Amendments for Stylistic Consistency.--Such 
section (article) is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Irregular and Similar 
    Pleas.--'' after ``(a)''; and
        (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``Pleas of Guilty.--'' 
    after ``(b)''.
SEC. 5228. SUBPOENA AND OTHER PROCESS.
    (a) Amendments to UCMJ Article.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (a) of section 846 of title 10, 
    United States Code (article 46 of the Uniform Code of Military 
    Justice), is amended by striking ``The counsel for the Government, 
    the counsel for the accused,'' and inserting ``In a case referred 
    for trial by court-martial, the trial counsel, the defense 
    counsel,''.
        (2) Subpoena and other process generally.--Subsection (b) of 
    such section (article) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Subpoena and Other Process Generally.--Any subpoena or other 
process issued under this section (article)--
        ``(1) shall be similar to that which courts of the United 
    States having criminal jurisdiction may issue;
        ``(2) shall be executed in accordance with regulations 
    prescribed by the President; and
        ``(3) shall run to any part of the United States and to the 
    Commonwealths and possessions of the United States.''.
        (3) Subpoena and other process for witnesses.--Subsection (c) 
    of such section (article) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Subpoena and Other Process for Witnesses.--A subpoena or 
other process may be issued to compel a witness to appear and testify--
        ``(1) before a court-martial, military commission, or court of 
    inquiry;
        ``(2) at a deposition under section 849 of this title (article 
    49); or
        ``(3) as otherwise authorized under this chapter.''.
        (4) Other matters.--Such section (article) is further amended 
    by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(d) Subpoena and Other Process for Evidence.--
        ``(1) In general.--A subpoena or other process may be issued to 
    compel the production of evidence--
            ``(A) for a court-martial, military commission, or court of 
        inquiry;
            ``(B) for a deposition under section 849 of this title 
        (article 49);
            ``(C) for an investigation of an offense under this 
        chapter; or
            ``(D) as otherwise authorized under this chapter.
        ``(2) Investigative subpoena.--An investigative subpoena under 
    paragraph (1)(C) may be issued before referral of charges to a 
    court-martial only if a general court-martial convening authority 
    has authorized counsel for the Government to issue such a subpoena 
    or a military judge issues such a subpoena pursuant to section 830a 
    of this title (article 30a).
        ``(3) Warrant or order for wire or electronic communications.--
    With respect to an investigation of an offense under this chapter, 
    a military judge detailed in accordance with section 826 or 830a of 
    this title (article 26 or 30a) may issue warrants or court orders 
    for the contents of, and records concerning, wire or electronic 
    communications in the same manner as such warrants and orders may 
    be issued by a district court of the United States under chapter 
    121 of title 18, subject to such limitations as the President may 
    prescribe by regulation.
    ``(e) Request for Relief From Subpoena or Other Process.--If a 
person requests relief from a subpoena or other process under this 
section (article) on grounds that compliance is unreasonable or 
oppressive or is prohibited by law, a military judge detailed in 
accordance with section 826 or 830a of this title (article 26 or 30a) 
shall review the request and shall--
        ``(1) order that the subpoena or other process be modified or 
    withdrawn, as appropriate; or
        ``(2) order the person to comply with the subpoena or other 
    process.''.
        (5) Section heading.--The heading of such section (article) is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 846. Art. 46. Opportunity to obtain witnesses and other evidence 
      in trials by court-martial''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments to Title 18, United States Code.--
        (1) Section 2703 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in the first sentence of subsection (a);
            (B) in subsection (b)(1)(A); and
            (C) in subsection (c)(1)(A);
    by inserting after ``warrant procedures'' the following: ``and, in 
    the case of a court-martial or other proceeding under chapter 47 of 
    title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), issued under 
    section 846 of that title, in accordance with regulations 
    prescribed by the President''.
        (2) Section 2711(3) of title 18, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end and 
        inserting ``or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) a court-martial or other proceeding under chapter 47 
        of title 10 (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) to which a 
        military judge has been detailed; and''.
SEC. 5229. REFUSAL OF PERSON NOT SUBJECT TO UCMJ TO APPEAR, TESTIFY, OR 
PRODUCE EVIDENCE.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 847 of title 10, United 
States Code (article 47 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Any person described in paragraph (2) who--
        ``(A) willfully neglects or refuses to appear; or
        ``(B) willfully refuses to qualify as a witness or to testify 
    or to produce any evidence which that person is required to 
    produce;
is guilty of an offense against the United States.
    ``(2) The persons referred to in paragraph (1) are the following:
        ``(A) Any person not subject to this chapter who--
            ``(i) is issued a subpoena or other process described in 
        subsection (c) of section 846 of this title (article 46); and
            ``(ii) is provided a means for reimbursement from the 
        Government for fees and mileage at the rates allowed to 
        witnesses attending the courts of the United States or, in the 
        case of extraordinary hardship, is advanced such fees and 
        mileage.
        ``(B) Any person not subject to this chapter who is issued a 
    subpoena or other process described in subsection (d) of section 
    846 of this title (article 46).''.
    (b) Section Heading.--The heading of such section (article) is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 847. Art. 47. Refusal of person not subject to chapter to 
   appear, testify, or produce evidence''.
SEC. 5230. CONTEMPT.
    (a) Authority To Punish.--Subsection (a) of section 848 of title 
10, United States Code (article 48 of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended to read as follows:
    ``(a) Authority To Punish.--(1) With respect to any proceeding 
under this chapter, a judicial officer specified in paragraph (2) may 
punish for contempt any person who--
        ``(A) uses any menacing word, sign, or gesture in the presence 
    of the judicial officer during the proceeding;
        ``(B) disturbs the proceeding by any riot or disorder; or
        ``(C) willfully disobeys a lawful writ, process, order, rule, 
    decree, or command issued with respect to the proceeding.
    ``(2) A judicial officer referred to in paragraph (1) is any of the 
following:
        ``(A) Any judge of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces 
    and any judge of a Court of Criminal Appeals under section 866 of 
    this title (article 66).
        ``(B) Any military judge detailed to a court-martial, a provost 
    court, a military commission, or any other proceeding under this 
    chapter.
        ``(C) Any military magistrate designated to preside under 
    section 819 of this title (article 19).
        ``(D) The president of a court of inquiry.''.
    (b) Review.--Such section (article) is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Review.--A punishment under this section--
        ``(1) if imposed by a military judge or military magistrate, 
    may be reviewed by the Court of Criminal Appeals in accordance with 
    the uniform rules of procedure for the Courts of Criminal Appeals 
    under section 866(g) of this title (article 66(g));
        ``(2) if imposed by a judge of the Court of Appeals for the 
    Armed Forces or a judge of a Court of Criminal Appeals, shall 
    constitute a judgment of the court, subject to review under the 
    applicable provisions of section 867 or 867a of this title (article 
    67 or 67a); and
        ``(3) if imposed by a court of inquiry, shall be subject to 
    review by the convening authority in accordance with rules 
    prescribed by the President.''.
    (c) Section Heading.--The heading of such section (article) is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 848. Art. 48. Contempt''.
SEC. 5231. DEPOSITIONS.
    Section 849 of title 10, United States Code (article 49 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 849. Art. 49. Depositions
    ``(a) In General.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), a convening 
authority or a military judge may order depositions at the request of 
any party.
    ``(2) A deposition may be ordered under paragraph (1) only if the 
requesting party demonstrates that, due to exceptional circumstances, 
it is in the interest of justice that the testimony of a prospective 
witness be preserved for use at a court-martial, military commission, 
court of inquiry, or other military court or board.
    ``(3) A party who requests a deposition under this section shall 
give to every other party reasonable written notice of the time and 
place for the deposition.
    ``(4) A deposition under this section shall be taken before, and 
authenticated by, an impartial officer, as follows:
        ``(A) Whenever practicable, by an impartial judge advocate 
    certified under section 827(b) of this title (article 27(b)).
        ``(B) In exceptional circumstances, by an impartial military or 
    civil officer authorized to administer oaths by (i) the laws of the 
    United States or (ii) the laws of the place where the deposition is 
    taken.
    ``(b) Representation by Counsel.--Representation of the parties 
with respect to a deposition shall be by counsel detailed in the same 
manner as trial counsel and defense counsel are detailed under section 
827 of this title (article 27). In addition, the accused shall have the 
right to be represented by civilian or military counsel in the same 
manner as such counsel are provided for in section 838(b) of this title 
(article 38(b)).
    ``(c) Admissibility and Use as Evidence.--A deposition order under 
subsection (a) does not control the admissibility of the deposition in 
a court-martial or other proceeding under this chapter. Except as 
provided by subsection (d), a party may use all or part of a deposition 
as provided by the rules of evidence.
    ``(d) Capital Cases.--Testimony by deposition may be presented in 
capital cases only by the defense.''.
SEC. 5232. ADMISSIBILITY OF SWORN TESTIMONY BY AUDIOTAPE OR VIDEOTAPE 
FROM RECORDS OF COURTS OF INQUIRY.
    (a) In General.--Section 850 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 50 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Audiotape or Videotape.--Sworn testimony that--
        ``(1) is recorded by audiotape, videotape, or similar method; 
    and
        ``(2) is contained in the duly authenticated record of 
    proceedings of a court of inquiry;
is admissible before a court-martial, military commission, court of 
inquiry, or military board, to the same extent as sworn testimony may 
be read in evidence before any such body under subsection (a), (b), or 
(c).''.
    (b) Section Heading.--The heading of such section (article) is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 850. Art. 50. Admissibility of sworn testimony from records of 
   courts of inquiry''.
    (c) Subsection Heading Amendments for Stylistic Consistency.--Such 
section (article) is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Use as Evidence by Any 
    Party.--'' after ``(a)'';
        (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``Use as Evidence by 
    Defense.--'' after ``(b)''; and
        (3) in subsection (c), by inserting ``Use in Courts of Inquiry 
    and Military Boards.--'' after ``(c)''.
SEC. 5233. CONFORMING AMENDMENT RELATING TO DEFENSE OF LACK OF MENTAL 
RESPONSIBILITY.
    Section 850a(c) of title 10, United States Code (article 50a(c) of 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking ``, or 
the president of a court-martial without a military judge,''.
SEC. 5234. VOTING AND RULINGS.
    Section 851 of title 10, United States Code (article 51 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``, and by members of a 
    court-martial without a military judge upon questions of 
    challenge,'' in the first sentence;
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``and, except for 
        questions of challenge, the president of a court-martial 
        without a military judge''; and
            (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``, or by the 
        president'' and all that follows through the end of the 
        subsection and inserting ``is final and constitutes the ruling 
        of the court, except that the military judge may change a 
        ruling at any time during trial.''; and
        (3) in subsection (c), by striking ``or the president of a 
    court-martial without a military judge'' in the matter before 
    paragraph (1).
SEC. 5235. VOTES REQUIRED FOR CONVICTION, SENTENCING, AND OTHER 
MATTERS.
    Section 852 of title 10, United States Code (article 52 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 852. Art. 52. Votes required for conviction, sentencing, and 
   other matters
    ``(a) In General.--No person may be convicted of an offense in a 
general or special court-martial, other than--
        ``(1) after a plea of guilty under section 845(b) of this title 
    (article 45(b));
        ``(2) by a military judge in a court-martial with a military 
    judge alone, under section 816 of this title (article 16); or
        ``(3) in a court-martial with members under section 816 of this 
    title (article 16), by the concurrence of at least three-fourths of 
    the members present when the vote is taken.
    ``(b) Level of Concurrence Required.--
        ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in subsection (a) and in 
    paragraph (2), all matters to be decided by members of a general or 
    special court-martial shall be determined by a majority vote, but a 
    reconsideration of a finding of guilty or reconsideration of a 
    sentence, with a view toward decreasing the sentence, may be made 
    by any lesser vote which indicates that the reconsideration is not 
    opposed by the number of votes required for that finding or 
    sentence.
        ``(2) Sentencing.--A sentence of death requires (A) a unanimous 
    finding of guilty of an offense in this chapter expressly made 
    punishable by death and (B) a unanimous determination by the 
    members that the sentence for that offense shall include death. All 
    other sentences imposed by members shall be determined by the 
    concurrence of at least three-fourths of the members present when 
    the vote is taken.''.
SEC. 5236. FINDINGS AND SENTENCING.
    Section 853 of title 10, United States Code (article 53 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 853. Art. 53. Findings and sentencing
    ``(a) Announcement.--A court-martial shall announce its findings 
and sentence to the parties as soon as determined.
    ``(b) Sentencing Generally.--
        ``(1) General and special courts-martial.--
            ``(A) Sentencing by military judge.--Except as provided in 
        subparagraph (B), and in subsection (c) for capital offenses, 
        if the accused is convicted of an offense in a trial by general 
        or special court-martial, the military judge shall sentence the 
        accused.
            ``(B) Sentencing by members.--If the accused is convicted 
        of an offense in a trial by general or special court-martial 
        consisting of a military judge and members and the accused 
        elects sentencing by members under section 825 of this title 
        (article 25), the members shall sentence the accused.
            ``(C) Sentence of the accused.--The sentence determined 
        pursuant to this paragraph constitutes the sentence of the 
        accused.
        ``(2) Summary courts-martial.--If the accused is convicted of 
    an offense in a trial by summary court-martial, the court-martial 
    shall sentence the accused.
    ``(c) Sentencing for Capital Offenses.--
        ``(1) In general.--In a capital case, if the accused is 
    convicted of an offense for which the court-martial may sentence 
    the accused to death, the members shall determine whether the 
    sentence for that offense shall be death or a lesser authorized 
    punishment.
        ``(2) Lesser authorized punishments.--In accordance with 
    regulations prescribed by the President, the court-martial may 
    include in any sentence to death or life in prison without 
    eligibility for parole other lesser punishments authorized under 
    this chapter.
        ``(3) Other non-capital offenses.--In a capital case, if the 
    accused is convicted of a non-capital offense, the accused shall be 
    sentenced for such non-capital offense in accordance with 
    subsection (b), regardless of whether the accused is convicted of 
    an offense for which the court-martial may sentence the accused to 
    death.''.
SEC. 5237. PLEA AGREEMENTS.
    Subchapter VII of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 853 (article 53 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5236 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 853a. Art. 53a. Plea agreements
    ``(a) In General.--(1) At any time before the announcement of 
findings under section 853 of this title (article 53), the convening 
authority and the accused may enter into a plea agreement with respect 
to such matters as--
        ``(A) the manner in which the convening authority will dispose 
    of one or more charges and specifications; and
        ``(B) limitations on the sentence that may be adjudged for one 
    or more charges and specifications.
    ``(2) The military judge of a general or special court-martial may 
not participate in discussions between the parties concerning 
prospective terms and conditions of a plea agreement.
    ``(b) Limitation on Acceptance of Plea Agreements.--The military 
judge of a general or special court-martial shall reject a plea 
agreement that--
        ``(1) contains a provision that has not been accepted by both 
    parties;
        ``(2) contains a provision that is not understood by the 
    accused; or
        ``(3) except as provided in subsection (c), contains a 
    provision for a sentence that is less than the mandatory minimum 
    sentence applicable to an offense referred to in section 856(b)(2) 
    of this title (article 56(b)(2)).
    ``(c) Limited Conditions for Acceptance of Plea Agreement for 
Sentence Below Mandatory Minimum for Certain Offenses.--With respect to 
an offense referred to in section 856(b)(2) of this title (article 
56(b)(2))--
        ``(1) the military judge may accept a plea agreement that 
    provides for a sentence of bad conduct discharge; and
        ``(2) upon recommendation of the trial counsel, in exchange for 
    substantial assistance by the accused in the investigation or 
    prosecution of another person who has committed an offense, the 
    military judge may accept a plea agreement that provides for a 
    sentence that is less than the mandatory minimum sentence for the 
    offense charged.
    ``(d) Binding Effect of Plea Agreement.--Upon acceptance by the 
military judge of a general or special court-martial, a plea agreement 
shall bind the parties and the military judge.''.
SEC. 5238. RECORD OF TRIAL.
    Section 854 of title 10, United States Code (article 54 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new 
    subsection (a):
    ``(a) General and Special Courts-martial.--Each general or special 
court-martial shall keep a separate record of the proceedings in each 
case brought before it. The record shall be certified by a court-
reporter, except that in the case of death, disability, or absence of a 
court reporter, the record shall be certified by an official selected 
as the President may prescribe by regulation.'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``(b) Each special and summary court-
        martial'' and inserting `` (b) Summary Courts-martial.--Each 
        summary court-martial''; and
            (B) by striking ``authenticated'' and inserting 
        ``certified'';
        (3) by striking subsection (c) and inserting the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Contents of Record.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
the record shall contain such matters as the President may prescribe by 
regulation.
    ``(2) In accordance with regulations prescribed by the President, a 
complete record of proceedings and testimony shall be prepared in any 
case of a sentence of death, dismissal, discharge, confinement for more 
than six months, or forfeiture of pay for more than six months.'';
        (4) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by striking ``(d) A copy'' and inserting ``(d) Copy to 
        Accused.--A copy''; and
            (B) by striking ``authenticated'' and inserting 
        ``certified''; and
        (5) in subsection (e)--
            (A) by striking ``(e) In the case'' and inserting ``(e) 
        Copy to Victim.--In the case'';
            (B) by striking ``involving a sexual assault or other 
        offense covered by section 920 of this title (article 120),'' 
        in the first sentence and inserting ``, upon request,''; and
            (C) by striking ``authenticated'' in the second sentence 
        and inserting ``certified''.

                         TITLE LVIII--SENTENCES

Sec. 5301. Sentencing.
Sec. 5302. Effective date of sentences.
Sec. 5303. Sentence of reduction in enlisted grade.
SEC. 5301. SENTENCING.
    (a) In General.--Section 856 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 56 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to 
read as follows:
``Sec. 856. Art. 56. Sentencing
    ``(a) Sentence Maximums.--The punishment which a court-martial may 
direct for an offense may not exceed such limits as the President may 
prescribe for that offense.
    ``(b) Sentence Minimums for Certain Offenses.--(1) Except as 
provided in subsection (d) of section 853a of this title (article 53a), 
punishment for any offense specified in paragraph (2) shall include 
dismissal or dishonorable discharge, as applicable.
    ``(2) The offenses referred to in paragraph (1) are as follows:
        ``(A) Rape under subsection (a) of section 920 of this title 
    (article 120).
        ``(B) Sexual assault under subsection (b) of such section 
    (article).
        ``(C) Rape of a child under subsection (a) of section 920b of 
    this title (article 120b).
        ``(D) Sexual assault of a child under subsection (b) of such 
    section (article).
        ``(E) An attempt to commit an offense specified in subparagraph 
    (A), (B), (C), or (D) that is punishable under section 880 of this 
    title (article 80).
        ``(F) Conspiracy to commit an offense specified in subparagraph 
    (A), (B), (C), or (D) that is punishable under section 881 of this 
    title (article 81).
    ``(c) Imposition of Sentence.--
        ``(1) In general.--In sentencing an accused under section 853 
    of this title (article 53), a court-martial shall impose punishment 
    that is sufficient, but not greater than necessary, to promote 
    justice and to maintain good order and discipline in the armed 
    forces, taking into consideration--
            ``(A) the nature and circumstances of the offense and the 
        history and characteristics of the accused;
            ``(B) the impact of the offense on--
                ``(i) the financial, social, psychological, or medical 
            well-being of any victim of the offense; and
                ``(ii) the mission, discipline, or efficiency of the 
            command of the accused and any victim of the offense;
            ``(C) the need for the sentence--
                ``(i) to reflect the seriousness of the offense;
                ``(ii) to promote respect for the law;
                ``(iii) to provide just punishment for the offense;
                ``(iv) to promote adequate deterrence of misconduct;
                ``(v) to protect others from further crimes by the 
            accused;
                ``(vi) to rehabilitate the accused; and
                ``(vii) to provide, in appropriate cases, the 
            opportunity for retraining and return to duty to meet the 
            needs of the service; and
            ``(D) the sentences available under this chapter.
        ``(2) Sentencing by military judge.--In announcing the sentence 
    in a general or special court-martial in which the accused is 
    sentenced by a military judge alone under section 853 of this title 
    (article 53), the military judge shall, with respect to each 
    offense of which the accused is found guilty, specify the term of 
    confinement, if any, and the amount of the fine, if any. If the 
    accused is sentenced to confinement for more than one offense, the 
    military judge shall specify whether the terms of confinement are 
    to run consecutively or concurrently.
        ``(3) Sentencing by members.--In a general or special court-
    martial in which the accused has elected sentencing by members, the 
    court-martial shall announce a single sentence for all of the 
    offenses of which the accused was found guilty.
        ``(4) Sentence of confinement for life without eligibility for 
    parole.--(A) If an offense is subject to a sentence of confinement 
    for life, a court-martial may impose a sentence of confinement for 
    life without eligibility for parole.
        ``(B) An accused who is sentenced to confinement for life 
    without eligibility for parole shall be confined for the remainder 
    of the accused's life unless--
            ``(i) the sentence is set aside or otherwise modified as a 
        result of--
                ``(I) action taken by the convening authority or the 
            Secretary concerned; or
                ``(II) any other action taken during post-trial 
            procedure and review under any other provision of 
            subchapter IX of this chapter;
            ``(ii) the sentence is set aside or otherwise modified as a 
        result of action taken by a Court of Criminal Appeals, the 
        Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, or the Supreme Court; or
            ``(iii) the accused is pardoned.
    ``(d) Appeal of Sentence by the United States.--(1) With the 
approval of the Judge Advocate General concerned, the Government may 
appeal a sentence to the Court of Criminal Appeals, on the grounds 
that--
        ``(A) the sentence violates the law; or
        ``(B) the sentence is plainly unreasonable.
    ``(2) An appeal under this subsection must be filed within 60 days 
after the date on which the judgment of a court-martial is entered into 
the record under section 860c of this title (article 60c).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 856a of title 10, United States 
Code (article 56a of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
repealed.
SEC. 5302. EFFECTIVE DATE OF SENTENCES.
    (a) In General.--Section 857 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 57 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to 
read as follows:
``Sec. 857. Art. 57. Effective date of sentences
    ``(a) Execution of Sentences.--A court-martial sentence shall be 
executed and take effect as follows:
        ``(1) Forfeiture and reduction.--A forfeiture of pay or 
    allowances shall be applicable to pay and allowances accruing on 
    and after the date on which the sentence takes effect. Any 
    forfeiture of pay or allowances or reduction in grade that is 
    included in a sentence of a court-martial takes effect on the 
    earlier of--
            ``(A) the date that is 14 days after the date on which the 
        sentence is adjudged; or
            ``(B) in the case of a summary court-martial, the date on 
        which the sentence is approved by the convening authority.
        ``(2) Confinement.--Any period of confinement included in a 
    sentence of a court-martial begins to run from the date the 
    sentence is adjudged by the court-martial, but periods during which 
    the sentence to confinement is suspended or deferred shall be 
    excluded in computing the service of the term of confinement.
        ``(3) Approval of sentence of death.--If the sentence of the 
    court-martial extends to death, that part of the sentence providing 
    for death may not be executed until approved by the President. In 
    such a case, the President may commute, remit, or suspend the 
    sentence, or any part thereof, as the President sees fit. That part 
    of the sentence providing for death may not be suspended.
        ``(4) Approval of dismissal.--If in the case of a commissioned 
    officer, cadet, or midshipman, the sentence of a court-martial 
    extends to dismissal, that part of the sentence providing for 
    dismissal may not be executed until approved by the Secretary 
    concerned or such Under Secretary or Assistant Secretary as may be 
    designated by the Secretary concerned. In such a case, the 
    Secretary, Under Secretary, or Assistant Secretary, as the case may 
    be, may commute, remit, or suspend the sentence, or any part of the 
    sentence, as the Secretary sees fit. In time of war or national 
    emergency he may commute a sentence of dismissal to reduction to 
    any enlisted grade. A person so reduced may be required to serve 
    for the duration of the war or emergency and six months thereafter.
        ``(5) Completion of appellate review.--If a sentence extends to 
    death, dismissal, or a dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge, that 
    part of the sentence extending to death, dismissal, or a 
    dishonorable or bad-conduct discharge may be executed, in 
    accordance with service regulations, after completion of appellate 
    review (and, with respect to death or dismissal, approval under 
    paragraph (3) or (4), as appropriate).
        ``(6) Other sentences.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
    subsection, a general or special court-martial sentence is 
    effective upon entry of judgment and a summary court-martial 
    sentence is effective when the convening authority acts on the 
    sentence.
    ``(b) Deferral of Sentences.--
        ``(1) In general.--On application by an accused, the convening 
    authority or, if the accused is no longer under his or her 
    jurisdiction, the officer exercising general court-martial 
    jurisdiction over the command to which the accused is currently 
    assigned, may, in his or her sole discretion, defer the effective 
    date of a sentence of confinement, reduction, or forfeiture. The 
    deferment shall terminate upon entry of judgment or, in the case of 
    a summary court-martial, when the convening authority acts on the 
    sentence. The deferment may be rescinded at any time by the officer 
    who granted it or, if the accused is no longer under his 
    jurisdiction, by the officer exercising general court-martial 
    jurisdiction over the command to which the accused is currently 
    assigned.
        ``(2) Deferral of certain persons sentenced to confinement.--In 
    any case in which a court-martial sentences a person referred to in 
    paragraph (3) to confinement, the convening authority may defer the 
    service of the sentence to confinement, without the consent of that 
    person, until after the person has been permanently released to the 
    armed forces by a State or foreign country referred to in that 
    paragraph.
        ``(3) Covered persons.--Paragraph (2) applies to a person 
    subject to this chapter who--
            ``(A) while in the custody of a State or foreign country is 
        temporarily returned by that State or foreign country to the 
        armed forces for trial by court-martial; and
            ``(B) after the court-martial, is returned to that State or 
        foreign country under the authority of a mutual agreement or 
        treaty, as the case may be.
        ``(4) State defined.--In this subsection, the term `State' 
    includes the District of Columbia and any Commonwealth, territory, 
    or possession of the United States.
        ``(5) Deferral while review pending.--In any case in which a 
    court-martial sentences a person to confinement, but in which 
    review of the case under section 867(a)(2) of this title (article 
    67(a)(2)) is pending, the Secretary concerned may defer further 
    service of the sentence to confinement while that review is 
    pending.
    ``(c) Appellate Review.--
        ``(1) Completion of appellate review.--Appellate review is 
    complete under this section when--
            ``(A) a review under section 865 of this title (article 65) 
        is completed; or
            ``(B) a review under section 866 of this title (article 66) 
        is completed by a Court of Criminal Appeals and--
                ``(i) the time for the accused to file a petition for 
            review by the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces has 
            expired and the accused has not filed a timely petition for 
            such review and the case is not otherwise under review by 
            that Court;
                ``(ii) such a petition is rejected by the Court of 
            Appeals for the Armed Forces; or
                ``(iii) review is completed in accordance with the 
            judgment of the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces and--

                    ``(I) a petition for a writ of certiorari is not 
                filed within the time limits prescribed by the Supreme 
                Court;
                    ``(II) such a petition is rejected by the Supreme 
                Court; or
                    ``(III) review is otherwise completed in accordance 
                with the judgment of the Supreme Court.

        ``(2) Completion as final judgment of legality of 
    proceedings.--The completion of appellate review shall constitute a 
    final judgment as to the legality of the proceedings.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Subchapter VIII of chapter 47 of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking section 857a (article 57a of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice).
        (2) Subchapter IX of chapter 47 of title 10, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking section 871 (article 71 of the Uniform 
    Code of Military Justice).
        (3) The second sentence of subsection (a)(1) of section 858b of 
    title 10, United States Code (article 58b of the Uniform Code of 
    Military Justice), is amended by striking ``section 857(a) of this 
    title (article 57(a))'' and inserting ``section 857 of this title 
    (article 57)''.
SEC. 5303. SENTENCE OF REDUCTION IN ENLISTED GRADE.
    Section 858a of title 10, United States Code (article 58a of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``Unless otherwise provided in regulations 
        to be prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a'' and inserting 
        ``A'';
            (B) by striking ``as approved by the convening authority'' 
        and inserting ``as set forth in the judgment of the court-
        martial entered into the record under section 860c of this 
        title (article 60c)''; and
            (C) in the matter after paragraph (3), by striking ``of 
        that approval'' and inserting ``on which the judgment is so 
        entered''; and
        (2) in subsection (b), by striking ``disapproved, or, as 
    finally approved'' and inserting ``reduced, or, as finally 
    affirmed''.

      TITLE LIX--POST-TRIAL PROCEDURE AND REVIEW OF COURTS-MARTIAL

Sec. 5321. Post-trial processing in general and special courts-martial.
Sec. 5322. Limited authority to act on sentence in specified post-trial 
          circumstances.
Sec. 5323. Post-trial actions in summary courts-martial and certain 
          general and special courts-martial.
Sec. 5324. Entry of judgment.
Sec. 5325. Waiver of right to appeal and withdrawal of appeal.
Sec. 5326. Appeal by the United States.
Sec. 5327. Rehearings.
Sec. 5328. Judge advocate review of finding of guilty in summary court-
          martial.
Sec. 5329. Transmittal and review of records.
Sec. 5330. Courts of Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 5331. Review by Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.
Sec. 5332. Supreme Court review.
Sec. 5333. Review by Judge Advocate General.
Sec. 5334. Appellate defense counsel in death penalty cases.
Sec. 5335. Authority for hearing on vacation of suspension of sentence 
          to be conducted by qualified judge advocate.
Sec. 5336. Extension of time for petition for new trial.
Sec. 5337. Restoration.
Sec. 5338. Leave requirements pending review of certain court-martial 
          convictions.
SEC. 5321. POST-TRIAL PROCESSING IN GENERAL AND SPECIAL COURTS-MARTIAL.
    Section 860 of title 10, United States Code (article 60 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 860. Art 60. Post-trial processing in general and special 
   courts-martial
    ``(a) Statement of Trial Results.--(1) The military judge of a 
general or special court-martial shall enter into the record of trial a 
document entitled `Statement of Trial Results', which shall set forth--
        ``(A) each plea and finding;
        ``(B) the sentence, if any; and
        ``(C) such other information as the President may prescribe by 
    regulation.
    ``(2) Copies of the Statement of Trial Results shall be provided 
promptly to the convening authority, the accused, and any victim of the 
offense.
    ``(b) Post-trial Motions.--In accordance with regulations 
prescribed by the President, the military judge in a general or special 
court-martial shall address all post-trial motions and other post-trial 
matters that--
        ``(1) may affect a plea, a finding, the sentence, the Statement 
    of Trial Results, the record of trial, or any post-trial action by 
    the convening authority; and
        ``(2) are subject to resolution by the military judge before 
    entry of judgment.''.
SEC. 5322. LIMITED AUTHORITY TO ACT ON SENTENCE IN SPECIFIED POST-TRIAL 
CIRCUMSTANCES.
    Subchapter IX of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 860 (article 60 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5321 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 860a. Art. 60a. Limited authority to act on sentence in 
    specified post-trial circumstances
    ``(a) In General.--(1) The convening authority of a general or 
special court-martial described in paragraph (2)--
        ``(A) may act on the sentence of the court-martial only as 
    provided in subsection (b), (c), or (d); and
        ``(B) may not act on the findings of the court-martial.
    ``(2) The courts-martial referred to in paragraph (1) are the 
following:
        ``(A) A general or special court-martial in which the maximum 
    sentence of confinement established under subsection (a) of section 
    856 of this title (article 56) for any offense of which the accused 
    is found guilty is more than two years.
        ``(B) A general or special court-martial in which the total of 
    the sentences of confinement imposed, running consecutively, is 
    more than six months.
        ``(C) A general or special court-martial in which the sentence 
    imposed includes a dismissal, dishonorable discharge, or bad-
    conduct discharge.
        ``(D) A general or special court-martial in which the accused 
    is found guilty of a violation of subsection (a) or (b) of section 
    920 of this title (article 120), section 920b of this title 
    (article 120b), or such other offense as the Secretary of Defense 
    may specify by regulation.
    ``(3) Except as provided in subsection (d), the convening authority 
may act under this section only before entry of judgment.
    ``(4) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a 
commissioned officer commanding for the time being, a successor in 
command, or any person exercising general court-martial jurisdiction 
may act under this section in place of the convening authority.
    ``(b) Reduction, Commutation, and Suspension of Sentences 
Generally.--(1) Except as provided in subsection (c) or (d), the 
convening authority may not reduce, commute, or suspend any of the 
following sentences:
        ``(A) A sentence of confinement, if the total period of 
    confinement imposed for all offenses involved, running 
    consecutively, is greater than six months.
        ``(B) A sentence of dismissal, dishonorable discharge, or bad-
    conduct discharge.
        ``(C) A sentence of death.
    ``(2) The convening authority may reduce, commute, or suspend any 
sentence not specified in paragraph (1).
    ``(c) Suspension of Certain Sentences Upon Recommendation of 
Military Judge.--(1) Upon recommendation of the military judge, as 
included in the Statement of Trial Results, together with an 
explanation of the facts supporting the recommendation, the convening 
authority may suspend--
        ``(A) a sentence of confinement, in whole or in part; or
        ``(B) a sentence of dismissal, dishonorable discharge, or bad-
    conduct discharge.
    ``(2) The convening authority may not, under paragraph (1)--
        ``(A) suspend a mandatory minimum sentence; or
        ``(B) suspend a sentence to an extent in excess of the 
    suspension recommended by the military judge.
    ``(d) Reduction of Sentence for Substantial Assistance by 
Accused.--(1) Upon a recommendation by the trial counsel, if the 
accused, after sentencing and before entry of judgment, provides 
substantial assistance in the investigation or prosecution of another 
person, the convening authority may reduce, commute, or suspend a 
sentence, in whole or in part, including any mandatory minimum 
sentence.
    ``(2) Upon a recommendation by a trial counsel, designated in 
accordance with rules prescribed by the President, if the accused, 
after entry of judgment, provides substantial assistance in the 
investigation or prosecution of another person, a convening authority, 
designated under such regulations, may reduce, commute, or suspend a 
sentence, in whole or in part, including any mandatory minimum 
sentence.
    ``(3) In evaluating whether the accused has provided substantial 
assistance under this subsection, the convening authority may consider 
the presentence assistance of the accused.
    ``(e) Submissions by Accused and Victim.--(1) In accordance with 
rules prescribed by the President, in determining whether to act under 
this section, the convening authority shall consider matters submitted 
in writing by the accused or any victim of an offense. Such rules shall 
include--
        ``(A) procedures for notice of the opportunity to make such 
    submissions;
        ``(B) the deadlines for such submissions; and
        ``(C) procedures for providing the accused and any victim of an 
    offense with a copy of the recording of any open sessions of the 
    court-martial and copies of, or access to, any admitted, unsealed 
    exhibits.
    ``(2) The convening authority shall not consider under this section 
any submitted matters that relate to the character of a victim unless 
such matters were presented as evidence at trial and not excluded at 
trial.
    ``(f) Decision of Convening Authority.--(1) The decision of the 
convening authority under this section shall be forwarded to the 
military judge, with copies provided to the accused and to any victim 
of the offense.
    ``(2) If, under this section, the convening authority reduces, 
commutes, or suspends the sentence, the decision of the convening 
authority shall include a written explanation of the reasons for such 
action.
    ``(3) If, under subsection (d)(2), the convening authority reduces, 
commutes, or suspends the sentence, the decision of the convening 
authority shall be forwarded to the chief trial judge for appropriate 
modification of the entry of judgment, which shall be transmitted to 
the Judge Advocate General for appropriate action.''.
SEC. 5323. POST-TRIAL ACTIONS IN SUMMARY COURTS-MARTIAL AND CERTAIN 
GENERAL AND SPECIAL COURTS-MARTIAL.
    Subchapter IX of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 860a (article 60a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5322 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 860b. Art. 60b. Post-trial actions in summary courts-martial and 
    certain general and special courts-martial
    ``(a) In General.--(1) In a court-martial not specified in section 
860a(a)(2) of this title (article 60a(a)(2)), the convening authority 
may--
        ``(A) dismiss any charge or specification by setting aside the 
    finding of guilty;
        ``(B) change a finding of guilty to a charge or specification 
    to a finding of guilty to a lesser included offense;
        ``(C) disapprove the findings and the sentence and dismiss the 
    charges and specifications;
        ``(D) disapprove the findings and the sentence and order a 
    rehearing as to the findings and the sentence;
        ``(E) disapprove, commute, or suspend the sentence, in whole or 
    in part; or
        ``(F) disapprove the sentence and order a rehearing as to the 
    sentence.
    ``(2) In a summary court-martial, the convening authority shall 
approve the sentence or take other action on the sentence under 
paragraph (1).
    ``(3) Except as provided in paragraph (4), the convening authority 
may act under this section only before entry of judgment.
    ``(4) The convening authority may act under this section after 
entry of judgment in a general or special court-martial in the same 
manner as the convening authority may act under section 860a(d)(2) of 
this title (article 60a(d)(2)). Such action shall be forwarded to the 
chief trial judge, who shall ensure appropriate modification to the 
entry of judgment and shall transmit the entry of judgment to the Judge 
Advocate General for appropriate action.
    ``(5) Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary concerned, a 
commissioned officer commanding for the time being, a successor in 
command, or any person exercising general court-martial jurisdiction 
may act under this section in place of the convening authority.
    ``(b) Limitations on Rehearings.--The convening authority may not 
order a rehearing under this section--
        ``(1) as to the findings, if there is insufficient evidence in 
    the record to support the findings;
        ``(2) to reconsider a finding of not guilty of any 
    specification or a ruling which amounts to a finding of not guilty; 
    or
        ``(3) to reconsider a finding of not guilty of any charge, 
    unless there has been a finding of guilty under a specification 
    laid under that charge, which sufficiently alleges a violation of 
    some article of this chapter.
    ``(c) Submissions by Accused and Victim.--In accordance with rules 
prescribed by the President, in determining whether to act under this 
section, the convening authority shall consider matters submitted in 
writing by the accused or any victim of the offense. Such rules shall 
include the matter required by section 860a(e) of this title (article 
60a(e)).
    ``(d) Decision of Convening Authority.--(1) In a general or special 
court-martial, the decision of the convening authority under this 
section shall be forwarded to the military judge, with copies provided 
to the accused and to any victim of the offense.
    ``(2) If the convening authority acts on the findings or the 
sentence under subsection (a)(1), the decision of the convening 
authority shall include a written explanation of the reasons for such 
action.''.
SEC. 5324. ENTRY OF JUDGMENT.
    Subchapter IX of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 860b (article 60b of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5323 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 860c. Art. 60c. Entry of judgment
    ``(a) Entry of Judgment of General or Special Court-martial.--(1) 
In accordance with rules prescribed by the President, in a general or 
special court-martial, the military judge shall enter into the record 
of trial the judgment of the court. The judgment of the court shall 
consist of the following:
        ``(A) The Statement of Trial Results under section 860 of this 
    title (article 60).
        ``(B) Any modifications of, or supplements to, the Statement of 
    Trial Results by reason of--
            ``(i) any post-trial action by the convening authority; or
            ``(ii) any ruling, order, or other determination of the 
        military judge that affects a plea, a finding, or the sentence.
    ``(2) Under rules prescribed by the President, the judgment under 
paragraph (1) shall be--
        ``(A) provided to the accused and to any victim of the offense; 
    and
        ``(B) made available to the public.
    ``(b) Summary Court-martial Judgment.--The findings and sentence of 
a summary court-martial, as modified by any post-trial action by the 
convening authority under section 860b of this title (article 60b), 
constitutes the judgment of the court-martial and shall be recorded and 
distributed under rules prescribed by the President.''.
SEC. 5325. WAIVER OF RIGHT TO APPEAL AND WITHDRAWAL OF APPEAL.
    Section 861 of title 10, United States Code (article 61 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 861. Art. 61. Waiver of right to appeal; withdrawal of appeal
    ``(a) Waiver of Right to Appeal.--After entry of judgment in a 
general or special court-martial, under procedures prescribed by the 
Secretary concerned, the accused may waive the right to appellate 
review in each case subject to such review under section 866 of this 
title (article 66). Such a waiver shall be--
        ``(1) signed by the accused and by defense counsel; and
        ``(2) attached to the record of trial.
    ``(b) Withdrawal of Appeal.--In a general or special court-martial, 
the accused may withdraw an appeal at any time.
    ``(c) Death Penalty Case Exception.--Notwithstanding subsections 
(a) and (b), an accused may not waive the right to appeal or withdraw 
an appeal with respect to a judgment that includes a sentence of death.
    ``(d) Waiver or Withdrawal as Bar.--A waiver or withdrawal under 
this section bars review under section 866 of this title (article 
66).''.
SEC. 5326. APPEAL BY THE UNITED STATES.
    Section 862 of title 10, United States Code (article 62 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1) of subsection (a)--
            (A) in the matter before subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``court-martial'' and all that follows through the colon at the 
        end and inserting ``general or special court-martial, or in a 
        pretrial proceeding under section 830a of this title (article 
        30a), the United States may appeal the following:''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(G) An order or ruling of the military judge entering a 
    finding of not guilty with respect to a charge or specification 
    following the return of a finding of guilty by the members.'';
        (2) in paragraph (2) of subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``(2)'' and inserting ``(2)(A)''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(B) An appeal of an order or ruling may not be taken when 
prohibited by section 844 of this title (article 44).''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) The United States may appeal a ruling or order of a military 
magistrate in the same manner as had the ruling or order been made by a 
military judge, except that the issue shall first be presented to the 
military judge who designated the military magistrate or to a military 
judge detailed to hear the issue.
    ``(e) The provisions of this section shall be liberally construed 
to effect its purposes.''.
SEC. 5327. REHEARINGS.
    Section 863 of title 10, United States Code (article 63 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(a)'' before ``Each rehearing'';
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``may be approved'' and 
    inserting ``may be adjudged'';
        (3) by striking the third sentence; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(b) If the sentence adjudged by the first court-martial was in 
accordance with a plea agreement under section 853a of this title 
(article 53a) and the accused at the rehearing does not comply with the 
agreement, or if a plea of guilty was entered for an offense at the 
first court-martial and a plea of not guilty was entered at the 
rehearing, the sentence as to those charges or specifications may 
include any punishment not in excess of that which could have been 
adjudged at the first court-martial.
    ``(c) If, after appeal by the Government under section 856(d) of 
this title (article 56(d)), the sentence adjudged is set aside and a 
rehearing on sentence is ordered by the Court of Criminal Appeals or 
Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces, the court-martial may impose any 
sentence that is in accordance with the order or ruling setting aside 
the adjudged sentence, subject to such limitations as the President may 
prescribe by regulation.''.
SEC. 5328. JUDGE ADVOCATE REVIEW OF FINDING OF GUILTY IN SUMMARY COURT-
MARTIAL.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 864 of title 10, United 
States Code (article 64 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended by striking the first two sentences and inserting the 
following:
    ``(a) In General.--Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
concerned, each summary court-martial in which there is a finding of 
guilty shall be reviewed by a judge advocate. A judge advocate may not 
review a case under this subsection if the judge advocate has acted in 
the same case as an accuser, preliminary hearing officer, member of the 
court, military judge, or counsel or has otherwise acted on behalf of 
the prosecution or defense.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) The heading of such section (article) is amended to read as 
    follows:
``Sec. 864. Art. 64. Judge advocate review of finding of guilty in 
   summary court-martial''.
        (2) Subsection (b) of such section (article) is amended--
            (A) by striking ``(b) The record'' and inserting ``(b) 
        Record.--The record'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by adding ``or'' at the end;
            (C) by striking paragraph (2); and
            (D) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
        (3) Subsection (c)(3) of such section (article) is amended by 
    striking ``section 869(b) of this title (article 69(b)).'' and 
    inserting ``section 869 of this title (article 69).''.
SEC. 5329. TRANSMITTAL AND REVIEW OF RECORDS.
    Section 865 of title 10, United States Code (article 65 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 865. Art. 65. Transmittal and review of records
    ``(a) Transmittal of Records.--
        ``(1) Finding of guilty in general or special court-martial.--
    If the judgment of a general or special court-martial entered under 
    section 860c of this title (article 60c) includes a finding of 
    guilty, the record shall be transmitted to the Judge Advocate 
    General.
        ``(2) Other cases.--In all other cases, records of trial by 
    court-martial and related documents shall be transmitted and 
    disposed of as the Secretary concerned may prescribe by regulation.
    ``(b) Cases for Direct Appeal.--
        ``(1) Automatic review.--If the judgment includes a sentence of 
    death, dismissal of a commissioned officer, cadet, or midshipman, 
    dishonorable discharge or bad-conduct discharge, or confinement for 
    2 years or more, the Judge Advocate General shall forward the 
    record of trial to the Court of Criminal Appeals for review under 
    section 866(b)(2) of this title (article 66(b)(2)).
        ``(2) Cases eligible for direct appeal review.--
            ``(A) In general.--If the case is eligible for direct 
        review under section 866(b)(1) of this title (article 
        66(b)(1)), the Judge Advocate General shall--
                ``(i) forward a copy of the record of trial to an 
            appellate defense counsel who shall be detailed to review 
            the case and, upon request of the accused, to represent the 
            accused before the Court of Criminal Appeals; and
                ``(ii) upon written request of the accused, forward a 
            copy of the record of trial to civilian counsel provided by 
            the accused.
            ``(B) Inapplicability.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply if 
        the accused--
                ``(i) waives the right to appeal under section 861 of 
            this title (article 61); or
                ``(ii) declines in writing the detailing of appellate 
            defense counsel under subparagraph (A)(i).
    ``(c) Notice of Right to Appeal.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Judge Advocate General shall provide 
    notice to the accused of the right to file an appeal under section 
    866(b)(1) of this title (article 66(b)(1)) by means of depositing 
    in the United States mails for delivery by first class certified 
    mail to the accused at an address provided by the accused or, if no 
    such address has been provided by the accused, at the latest 
    address listed for the accused in the official service record of 
    the accused.
        ``(2) Inapplicability upon waiver of appeal.--Paragraph (1) 
    shall not apply if the accused waives the right to appeal under 
    section 861 of this title (article 61).
    ``(d) Review by Judge Advocate General.--
        ``(1) By whom.--A review conducted under this subsection may be 
    conducted by an attorney within the Office of the Judge Advocate 
    General or another attorney designated under regulations prescribed 
    by the Secretary concerned.
        ``(2) Review of cases not eligible for direct appeal.--
            ``(A) In general.--A review under subparagraph (B) shall be 
        completed in each general and special court-martial that is not 
        eligible for direct appeal under paragraph (1) or (3) of 
        section 866(b) of this title (article 66(b)).
            ``(B) Scope of review.--A review referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) shall include a written decision providing 
        each of the following:
                ``(i) A conclusion as to whether the court had 
            jurisdiction over the accused and the offense.
                ``(ii) A conclusion as to whether the charge and 
            specification stated an offense.
                ``(iii) A conclusion as to whether the sentence was 
            within the limits prescribed as a matter of law.
                ``(iv) A response to each allegation of error made in 
            writing by the accused.
        ``(3) Review when direct appeal is waived, withdrawn, or not 
    filed.--
            ``(A) In general.--A review under subparagraph (B) shall be 
        completed in each general and special court-martial if--
                ``(i) the accused waives the right to appeal or 
            withdraws appeal under section 861 of this title (article 
            61); or
                ``(ii) the accused does not file a timely appeal in a 
            case eligible for direct appeal under subparagraph (A), 
            (B), or (C) of section 866(b)(1) of this title (article 
            66(b)(1)).
            ``(B) Scope of review.--A review referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) shall include a written decision limited to 
        providing conclusions on the matters specified in clauses (i), 
        (ii), and (iii) of paragraph (2)(B).
    ``(e) Remedy.--
        ``(1) In general.--If after a review of a record under 
    subsection (d), the attorney conducting the review believes 
    corrective action may be required, the record shall be forwarded to 
    the Judge Advocate General, who may set aside the findings or 
    sentence, in whole or in part.
        ``(2) Rehearing.--In setting aside findings or sentence, the 
    Judge Advocate General may order a rehearing, except that a 
    rehearing may not be ordered in violation of section 844 of this 
    title (article 44).
        ``(3) Remedy without rehearing.--
            ``(A) Dismissal when no rehearing ordered.--If the Judge 
        Advocate General sets aside findings and sentence and does not 
        order a rehearing, the Judge Advocate General shall dismiss the 
        charges.
            ``(B) Dismissal when rehearing impractical.--If the Judge 
        Advocate General sets aside findings and orders a rehearing and 
        the convening authority determines that a rehearing would be 
        impractical, the convening authority shall dismiss the 
        charges.''.
SEC. 5330. COURTS OF CRIMINAL APPEALS.
    (a) Appellate Military Judges.--Subsection (a) of section 866 of 
title 10, United States Code (article 66 of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``subsection (f)'' and 
    inserting ``subsection (h)'';
        (2) in the fourth sentence, by inserting after ``highest court 
    of a State'' the following: ``and must be certified by the Judge 
    Advocate General as qualified, by reason of education, training, 
    experience, and judicial temperament, for duty as an appellate 
    military judge''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``In 
    accordance with regulations prescribed by the President, 
    assignments of appellate military judges under this section 
    (article) shall be for appropriate minimum periods, subject to such 
    exceptions as may be authorized in the regulations.''.
    (b) Revision of Appellate Procedures.--Such section (article) is 
further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h) as 
    subsections (g), (h), (i), and (j), respectively; and
        (2) by striking subsections (b), (c), and (d) and inserting the 
    following new subsections:
    ``(b) Review.--
        ``(1) Appeals by accused.--A Court of Criminal Appeals shall 
    have jurisdiction over a timely appeal from the judgment of a 
    court-martial, entered into the record under section 860c of this 
    title (article 60c), as follows:
            ``(A) On appeal by the accused in a case in which the 
        sentence extends to confinement for more than six months and 
        the case is not subject to automatic review under paragraph 
        (3).
            ``(B) On appeal by the accused in a case in which the 
        Government previously filed an appeal under section 862 of this 
        title (article 62).
            ``(C) On appeal by the accused in a case that the Judge 
        Advocate General has sent to the Court of Criminal Appeals for 
        review of the sentence under section 856(d) of this title 
        (article 56(d)).
            ``(D) In a case in which the accused filed an application 
        for review with the Court under section 869(d)(1)(B) of this 
        title (article 69(d)(1)(B)) and the application has been 
        granted by the Court.
        ``(2) Review of certain sentences.--A Court of Criminal Appeals 
    shall have jurisdiction over all cases that the Judge Advocate 
    General orders sent to the Court for review under section 856(d) of 
    this title (article 56(d)).
        ``(3) Automatic review.--A Court of Criminal Appeals shall have 
    jurisdiction over a court-martial in which the judgment entered 
    into the record under section 860c of this title (article 60c) 
    includes a sentence of death, dismissal of a commissioned officer, 
    cadet, or midshipman, dishonorable discharge or bad-conduct 
    discharge, or confinement for 2 years or more.
    ``(c) Timeliness.--An appeal under subsection (b)(1) is timely if 
it is filed as follows:
        ``(1) In the case of an appeal by the accused under subsection 
    (b)(1)(A) or (b)(1)(B), if filed before the later of--
            ``(A) the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date 
        the accused is provided notice of appellate rights under 
        section 865(c) of this title (article 65(c)); or
            ``(B) the date set by the Court of Criminal Appeals by rule 
        or order.
        ``(2) In the case of an appeal by the accused under subsection 
    (b)(1)(C), if filed before the later of--
            ``(A) the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date 
        the accused is notified that the application for review has 
        been granted by letter placed in the United States mails for 
        delivery by first class certified mail to the accused at an 
        address provided by the accused or, if no such address has been 
        provided by the accused, at the latest address listed for the 
        accused in his official service record; or
            ``(B) the date set by the Court of Criminal Appeals by rule 
        or order.
    ``(d) Duties.--
        ``(1) Cases appealed by accused.--In any case before the Court 
    of Criminal Appeals under subsection (b), the Court may act only 
    with respect to the findings and sentence as entered into the 
    record under section 860c of this title (article 60c). The Court 
    may affirm only such findings of guilty, and the sentence or such 
    part or amount of the sentence, as the Court finds correct in law 
    and fact and determines, on the basis of the entire record, should 
    be approved. In considering the record, the Court may weigh the 
    evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses, and determine 
    controverted questions of fact, recognizing that the trial court 
    saw and heard the witnesses.
        ``(2) Error or excessive delay.--In any case before the Court 
    of Criminal Appeals under subsection (b), the Court may provide 
    appropriate relief if the accused demonstrates error or excessive 
    delay in the processing of the court-martial after the judgment was 
    entered into the record under section 860c of this title (article 
    60c).
    ``(e) Consideration of Appeal of Sentence by the United States.--
        ``(1) In general.--In considering a sentence on appeal or 
    review as provided in section 856(d) of this title (article 56(d)), 
    the Court of Criminal Appeals may consider--
            ``(A) whether the sentence violates the law; and
            ``(B) whether the sentence is plainly unreasonable.
        ``(2) Record on appeal or review.--In an appeal or review under 
    this subsection or section 856(d) of this title (article 56(d)), 
    the record on appeal or review shall consist of--
            ``(A) any portion of the record in the case that is 
        designated as pertinent by either of the parties;
            ``(B) the information submitted during the sentencing 
        proceeding; and
            ``(C) any information required by rule or order of the 
        Court of Criminal Appeals.
    ``(f) Limits of Authority.--
        ``(1) Set aside of findings.--
            ``(A) In general.--If the Court of Criminal Appeals sets 
        aside the findings, the Court--
                ``(i) may affirm any lesser included offense; and
                ``(ii) may, except when prohibited by section 844 of 
            this title (article 44), order a rehearing.
            ``(B) Dismissal when no rehearing ordered.--If the Court of 
        Criminal Appeals sets aside the findings and does not order a 
        rehearing, the Court shall order that the charges be dismissed.
            ``(C) Dismissal when rehearing impracticable.--If the Court 
        of Criminal Appeals orders a rehearing on a charge and the 
        convening authority finds a rehearing impracticable, the 
        convening authority may dismiss the charge.
        ``(2) Set aside of sentence.--If the Court of Criminal Appeals 
    sets aside the sentence, the Court may--
            ``(A) modify the sentence to a lesser sentence; or
            ``(B) order a rehearing.
        ``(3) Additional proceedings.--If the Court determines that 
    additional proceedings are warranted, the Court may order a hearing 
    as may be necessary to address a substantial issue, subject to such 
    limitations as the Court may direct and under such regulations as 
    the President may prescribe.''.
    (c) Action When Rehearing Impracticable After Rehearing Order.--
Subsection (g) of such section (article), as redesignated by subsection 
(b)(1) of this section, is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``convening authority'' 
    and inserting ``appropriate authority''; and
        (2) by striking the last sentence.
    (d) Section Heading.--The heading of such section (article) is 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 866. Art. 66. Courts of Criminal Appeals''.
    (e) Subsection Heading Amendments for Stylistic Consistency.--Such 
section (article) is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Courts of Criminal 
    Appeals.--'' after ``(a)'';
        (2) in subsection (g), as redesignated by subsection (b)(1) of 
    this section, by inserting ``Action in Accordance With Decisions of 
    Courts.--'' after ``(g)'';
        (3) in subsection (h), as so redesignated, by inserting ``Rules 
    of Procedure.--'' after ``(h)'';
        (4) in subsection (i), as so redesignated, by inserting 
    ``Prohibition on Evaluation of Other Members of Courts.--'' after 
    ``(i)''; and
        (5) in subsection (j), as so redesignated, by inserting 
    ``Ineligibility of Members of Courts To Review Records of Cases 
    Involving Certain Prior Member Service.--'' after ``(j)''.
SEC. 5331. REVIEW BY COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) JAG Notification.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 867 of title 
10, United States Code (article 67 of the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended by inserting after ``the Judge Advocate General'' 
the following: ``, after appropriate notification to the other Judge 
Advocates General and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the 
Marine Corps,''.
    (b) Basis for Review.--Subsection (c) of such section (article) is 
amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(c)'';
        (2) by designating the second sentence as paragraph (2);
        (3) by designating the third sentence as paragraph (3);
        (4) by designating the fourth sentence as paragraph (4); and
        (5) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (1) of this 
    subsection, by striking ``only with respect to'' and all that 
    follows through the end of the sentence and inserting ``only with 
    respect to--
        ``(A) the findings and sentence set forth in the entry of 
    judgment, as affirmed or set aside as incorrect in law by the Court 
    of Criminal Appeals; or
        ``(B) a decision, judgment, or order by a military judge, as 
    affirmed or set aside as incorrect in law by the Court of Criminal 
    Appeals.''.
SEC. 5332. SUPREME COURT REVIEW.
    The second sentence of section 867a(a) of title 10, United States 
Code (article 67a(a) of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended by inserting before ``Court of Appeals'' the following: 
``United States''.
SEC. 5333. REVIEW BY JUDGE ADVOCATE GENERAL.
    Section 869 of title 10, United States Code (article 69 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 869. Art. 69. Review by Judge Advocate General
    ``(a) In General.--Upon application by the accused and subject to 
subsections (b), (c), and (d), the Judge Advocate General may modify or 
set aside, in whole or in part, the findings and sentence in a court-
martial that is not reviewed under section 866 of this title (article 
66).
    ``(b) Timing.--To qualify for consideration, an application under 
subsection (a) must be submitted to the Judge Advocate General not 
later than one year after the date of completion of review under 
section 864 or 865 of this title (article 64 or 65), as the case may 
be. The Judge Advocate General may, for good cause shown, extend the 
period for submission of an application, but may not consider an 
application submitted more than three years after such completion date.
    ``(c) Scope.--(1)(A) In a case reviewed under section 864 or 865(b) 
of this title (article 64 or 65(b)), the Judge Advocate General may set 
aside the findings or sentence, in whole or in part on the grounds of 
newly discovered evidence, fraud on the court, lack of jurisdiction 
over the accused or the offense, error prejudicial to the substantial 
rights of the accused, or the appropriateness of the sentence.
    ``(B) In setting aside findings or sentence, the Judge Advocate 
General may order a rehearing, except that a rehearing may not be 
ordered in violation of section 844 of this title (article 44).
    ``(C) If the Judge Advocate General sets aside findings and 
sentence and does not order a rehearing, the Judge Advocate General 
shall dismiss the charges.
    ``(D) If the Judge Advocate General sets aside findings and orders 
a rehearing and the convening authority determines that a rehearing 
would be impractical, the convening authority shall dismiss the 
charges.
    ``(2) In a case reviewed under section 865(b) of this title 
(article 65(b)), review under this section is limited to the issue of 
whether the waiver or withdrawal of an appeal was invalid under the 
law. If the Judge Advocate General determines that the waiver or 
withdrawal of an appeal was invalid, the Judge Advocate General shall 
order appropriate corrective action under rules prescribed by the 
President.
    ``(d) Court of Criminal Appeals.--(1) A Court of Criminal Appeals 
may review the action taken by the Judge Advocate General under 
subsection (c)--
        ``(A) in a case sent to the Court of Criminal Appeals by order 
    of the Judge Advocate General; or
        ``(B) in a case submitted to the Court of Criminal Appeals by 
    the accused in an application for review.
    ``(2) The Court of Criminal Appeals may grant an application under 
paragraph (1)(B) only if--
        ``(A) the application demonstrates a substantial basis for 
    concluding that the action on review under subsection (c) 
    constituted prejudicial error; and
        ``(B) the application is filed not later than the earlier of--
            ``(i) 60 days after the date on which the accused is 
        notified of the decision of the Judge Advocate General; or
            ``(ii) 60 days after the date on which a copy of the 
        decision of the Judge Advocate General is deposited in the 
        United States mails for delivery by first-class certified mail 
        to the accused at an address provided by the accused or, if no 
        such address has been provided by the accused, at the latest 
        address listed for the accused in his official service record.
    ``(3) The submission of an application for review under this 
subsection does not constitute a proceeding before the Court of 
Criminal Appeals for purposes of section 870(c)(1) of this title 
(article 70(c)(1)).
    ``(e) Action Only on Matters of Law.--Notwithstanding section 866 
of this title (article 66), in any case reviewed by a Court of Criminal 
Appeals under subsection (d), the Court may take action only with 
respect to matters of law.''.
SEC. 5334. APPELLATE DEFENSE COUNSEL IN DEATH PENALTY CASES.
    Section 870 of title 10, United States Code (article 70 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(f) To the greatest extent practicable, in any capital case, at 
least one defense counsel under subsection (c) shall, as determined by 
the Judge Advocate General, be learned in the law applicable to such 
cases. If necessary, this counsel may be a civilian and, if so, may be 
compensated in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
of Defense.''.
SEC. 5335. AUTHORITY FOR HEARING ON VACATION OF SUSPENSION OF SENTENCE 
TO BE CONDUCTED BY QUALIFIED JUDGE ADVOCATE.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (a) of section 872 of title 10, United 
States Code (article 72 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is 
amended by inserting after the first sentence the following new 
sentence: ``The special court-martial convening authority may detail a 
judge advocate, who is certified under section 827(b) of this title 
(article 27(b)), to conduct the hearing.''.
    (b) Technical Amendments.--Such section (article) is further 
amended--
        (1) in the last sentence of subsection (a), by striking ``if he 
    so desires'' and inserting ``if the probationer so desires''; and
        (2) in the second sentence of subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking ``If he'' and inserting ``If the officer 
        exercising general court-martial jurisdiction''; and
            (B) by striking ``section 871(c) of this title (article 
        71(c))'' and inserting ``section 857 of this title (article 
        57)''.
SEC. 5336. EXTENSION OF TIME FOR PETITION FOR NEW TRIAL.
    The first sentence of section 873 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 73 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by 
striking ``two years after approval by the convening authority of a 
court-martial sentence'' and inserting ``three years after the date of 
the entry of judgment under section 860c of this title (article 60c)''.
SEC. 5337. RESTORATION.
    Section 875 of title 10, United States Code (article 75 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) The President shall prescribe regulations, with such 
limitations as the President considers appropriate, governing 
eligibility for pay and allowances for the period after the date on 
which an executed part of a court-martial sentence is set aside.''.
SEC. 5338. LEAVE REQUIREMENTS PENDING REVIEW OF CERTAIN COURT-MARTIAL 
CONVICTIONS.
    Section 876a of title 10, United States Code (article 76a of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``, as approved under 
    section 860 of this title (article 60),''; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``on which the sentence 
    is approved under section 860 of this title (article 60)'' and 
    inserting ``of the entry of judgment under section 860c of this 
    title (article 60c)''.

                      TITLE LX--PUNITIVE ARTICLES

Sec. 5401. Reorganization of punitive articles.
Sec. 5402. Conviction of offense charged, lesser included offenses, and 
          attempts.
Sec. 5403. Soliciting commission of offenses.
Sec. 5404. Malingering.
Sec. 5405. Breach of medical quarantine.
Sec. 5406. Missing movement; jumping from vessel.
Sec. 5407. Offenses against correctional custody and restriction.
Sec. 5408. Disrespect toward superior commissioned officer; assault of 
          superior commissioned officer.
Sec. 5409. Willfully disobeying superior commissioned officer.
Sec. 5410. Prohibited activities with military recruit or trainee by 
          person in position of special trust.
Sec. 5411. Offenses by sentinel or lookout.
Sec. 5412. Disrespect toward sentinel or lookout.
Sec. 5413. Release of prisoner without authority; drinking with 
          prisoner.
Sec. 5414. Penalty for acting as a spy.
Sec. 5415. Public records offenses.
Sec. 5416. False or unauthorized pass offenses.
Sec. 5417. Impersonation offenses.
Sec. 5418. Insignia offenses.
Sec. 5419. False official statements; false swearing.
Sec. 5420. Parole violation.
Sec. 5421. Wrongful taking, opening, etc. of mail matter.
Sec. 5422. Improper hazarding of vessel or aircraft.
Sec. 5423. Leaving scene of vehicle accident.
Sec. 5424. Drunkenness and other incapacitation offenses.
Sec. 5425. Lower blood alcohol content limits for conviction of drunken 
          or reckless operation of vehicle, aircraft, or vessel.
Sec. 5426. Endangerment offenses.
Sec. 5427. Communicating threats.
Sec. 5428. Technical amendment relating to murder.
Sec. 5429. Child endangerment.
Sec. 5430. Rape and sexual assault offenses.
Sec. 5431. Deposit of obscene matter in the mail.
Sec. 5432. Fraudulent use of credit cards, debit cards, and other access 
          devices.
Sec. 5433. False pretenses to obtain services.
Sec. 5434. Robbery.
Sec. 5435. Receiving stolen property.
Sec. 5436. Offenses concerning Government computers.
Sec. 5437. Bribery.
Sec. 5438. Graft.
Sec. 5439. Kidnapping.
Sec. 5440. Arson; burning property with intent to defraud.
Sec. 5441. Assault.
Sec. 5442. Burglary and unlawful entry.
Sec. 5443. Stalking.
Sec. 5444. Subornation of perjury.
Sec. 5445. Obstructing justice.
Sec. 5446. Misprision of serious offense.
Sec. 5447. Wrongful refusal to testify.
Sec. 5448. Prevention of authorized seizure of property.
Sec. 5449. Wrongful interference with adverse administrative proceeding.
Sec. 5450. Retaliation.
Sec. 5451. Extraterritorial application of certain offenses.
Sec. 5452. Table of sections.
SEC. 5401. REORGANIZATION OF PUNITIVE ARTICLES.
    Sections of subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States 
Code (articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), are 
transferred within subchapter X and redesignated as follows:
        (1) Enlistment and separation.--Sections 883 and 884 (articles 
    83 and 84) are transferred so as to appear (in that order) after 
    section 904 (article 104) and are redesignated as sections 904a and 
    904b (articles 104a and 104b), respectively.
        (2) Resistance, flight, breach of arrest, and escape.--Section 
    895 (article 95) is transferred so as to appear after section 887 
    (article 87) and is redesignated as section 887a (article 87a).
        (3) Noncompliance with procedural rules.--Section 898 (article 
    98) is transferred so as to appear after section 931 (article 131) 
    and is redesignated as section 931f (article 131f).
        (4) Captured or abandoned property.--Section 903 (article 103) 
    is transferred so as to appear after section 908 (article 108) and 
    is redesignated as section 908a (article 108a).
        (5) Aiding the enemy.--Section 904 (article 104) is 
    redesignated as section 903b (article 103b).
        (6) Misconduct as prisoner.--Section 905 (article 105) is 
    transferred so as to appear after section 897 (article 97) and is 
    redesignated as section 898 (article 98).
        (7) Spies; espionage.--Sections 906 and 906a (articles 106 and 
    106a) are transferred so as to appear (in that order) after section 
    902 (article 102) and are redesignated as sections 903 and 903a 
    (articles 103 and 103a), respectively.
        (8) Misbehavior of sentinel.--Section 913 (article 113) is 
    transferred so as to appear after section 894 (article 94) and is 
    redesignated as section 895 (article 95).
        (9) Drunken or reckless operation of a vehicle, aircraft, or 
    vessel.--Section 911 (article 111) is transferred so as to appear 
    after section 912a (article 912a) and is redesignated as section 
    913 (article 113).
        (10) Housebreaking.--Section 930 (article 130) is redesignated 
    as section 929a (article 129a).
        (11) Stalking.--Section 920a (article 120a) is transferred so 
    as to appear after section 929a (article 129a), as redesignated by 
    paragraph (10), and is redesignated as section 930 (article 130).
        (12) Forgery.--Section 923 (article 123) is transferred so as 
    to appear after section 904b (article 104b), as transferred and 
    redesignated by paragraph (1), and is redesignated as section 905 
    (article 105).
        (13) Maiming.--
            (A) In general.--Section 924 (article 124) is transferred 
        so as to appear after section 928 (article 128) and is 
        redesignated as section 928a (article 128a).
            (B) Conforming amendments.--Section 919a(b) (article 
        919a(b)) is amended--
                (i) by striking ``924,'' and inserting ``928a,''; and
                (ii) by striking ``124,'' and inserting ``128a''.
        (14) Frauds against the united states.--Section 932 of (article 
    132) is transferred so as to appear after section 923a (article 
    123a) and is redesignated as section 924 (article 124).
SEC. 5402. CONVICTION OF OFFENSE CHARGED, LESSER INCLUDED OFFENSES, AND 
ATTEMPTS.
    Section 879 of title 10, United States Code (article 79 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 879. Art. 79. Conviction of offense charged, lesser included 
      offenses, and attempts
    ``(a) In General.--An accused may be found guilty of any of the 
following:
        ``(1) The offense charged.
        ``(2) A lesser included offense.
        ``(3) An attempt to commit the offense charged.
        ``(4) An attempt to commit a lesser included offense, if the 
    attempt is an offense in its own right.
    ``(b) Lesser Included Offense Defined.--In this section (article), 
the term `lesser included offense' means--
        ``(1) an offense that is necessarily included in the offense 
    charged; and
        ``(2) any lesser included offense so designated by regulation 
    prescribed by the President.
    ``(c) Regulatory Authority.--Any designation of a lesser included 
offense in a regulation referred to in subsection (b) shall be 
reasonably included in the greater offense.''.
SEC. 5403. SOLICITING COMMISSION OF OFFENSES.
    Section 882 of title 10, United States Code (article 82 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 882. Art. 82. Soliciting commission of offenses
    ``(a) Soliciting Commission of Offenses Generally.--Any person 
subject to this chapter who solicits or advises another to commit an 
offense under this chapter (other than an offense specified in 
subsection (b)) shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Soliciting Desertion, Mutiny, Sedition, or Misbehavior Before 
the Enemy.--Any person subject to this chapter who solicits or advises 
another to violate section 885 of this title (article 85), section 894 
of this title (article 94), or section 99 of this title (article 99)--
        ``(1) if the offense solicited or advised is attempted or is 
    committed, shall be punished with the punishment provided for the 
    commission of the offense; and
        ``(2) if the offense solicited or advised is not attempted or 
    committed, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5404. MALINGERING.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 882 (article 82 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5403 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 883. Art. 83. Malingering
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, with the intent to avoid 
work, duty, or service--
        ``(1) feigns illness, physical disablement, mental lapse, or 
    mental derangement; or
        ``(2) intentionally inflicts self-injury;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5405. BREACH OF MEDICAL QUARANTINE.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 883 (article 83 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as added by section 5404 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 884. Art. 84. Breach of medical quarantine
    ``Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who is ordered into medical quarantine by a person 
    authorized to issue such order; and
        ``(2) who, with knowledge of the quarantine and the limits of 
    the quarantine, goes beyond those limits before being released from 
    the quarantine by proper authority;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5406. MISSING MOVEMENT; JUMPING FROM VESSEL.
    Section 887 of title 10, United States Code (article 87 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 887. Art. 87. Missing movement; jumping from vessel
    ``(a) Missing Movement.--Any person subject to this chapter who, 
through neglect or design, misses the movement of a ship, aircraft, or 
unit with which the person is required in the course of duty to move 
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Jumping From Vessel Into the Water.--Any person subject to 
this chapter who wrongfully and intentionally jumps into the water from 
a vessel in use by the armed forces shall be punished as a court-
martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5407. OFFENSES AGAINST CORRECTIONAL CUSTODY AND RESTRICTION.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 887a (article 87a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by section 
5401(2) of this Act, the following new section (article):
``Sec. 887b. Art. 87b. Offenses against correctional custody and 
      restriction
    ``(a) Escape From Correctional Custody.--Any person subject to this 
chapter--
        ``(1) who is placed in correctional custody by a person 
    authorized to do so;
        ``(2) who, while in correctional custody, is under physical 
    restraint; and
        ``(3) who escapes from the physical restraint before being 
    released from the physical restraint by proper authority;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Breach of Correctional Custody.--Any person subject to this 
chapter--
        ``(1) who is placed in correctional custody by a person 
    authorized to do so;
        ``(2) who, while in correctional custody, is under restraint 
    other than physical restraint; and
        ``(3) who goes beyond the limits of the restraint before being 
    released from the correctional custody or relieved of the restraint 
    by proper authority;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Breach of Restriction.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who is ordered to be restricted to certain limits by a 
    person authorized to do so; and
        ``(2) who, with knowledge of the limits of the restriction, 
    goes beyond those limits before being released by proper authority;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5408. DISRESPECT TOWARD SUPERIOR COMMISSIONED OFFICER; ASSAULT OF 
SUPERIOR COMMISSIONED OFFICER.
    Section 889 of title 10, United States Code (article 89 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 889. Art. 89. Disrespect toward superior commissioned officer; 
      assault of superior commissioned officer
    ``(a) Disrespect.--Any person subject to this chapter who behaves 
with disrespect toward that person's superior commissioned officer 
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Assault.--Any person subject to this chapter who strikes that 
person's superior commissioned officer or draws or lifts up any weapon 
or offers any violence against that officer while the officer is in the 
execution of the officer's office shall be punished--
        ``(1) if the offense is committed in time of war, by death or 
    such other punishment as a court-martial may direct; and
        ``(2) if the offense is committed at any other time, by such 
    punishment, other than death, as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5409. WILLFULLY DISOBEYING SUPERIOR COMMISSIONED OFFICER.
    Section 890 of title 10, United States Code (article 90 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 890. Art. 90. Willfully disobeying superior commissioned officer
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who willfully disobeys a 
lawful command of that person's superior commissioned officer shall be 
punished--
        ``(1) if the offense is committed in time of war, by death or 
    such other punishment as a court-martial may direct; and
        ``(2) if the offense is committed at any other time, by such 
    punishment, other than death, as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5410. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES WITH MILITARY RECRUIT OR TRAINEE BY 
PERSON IN POSITION OF SPECIAL TRUST.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 893 (article 93 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), the following new section (article):
``Sec. 893a. Art. 93a. Prohibited activities with military recruit or 
    trainee by person in position of special trust
    ``(a) Abuse of Training Leadership Position.--Any person subject to 
this chapter--
        ``(1) who is an officer, a noncommissioned officer, or a petty 
    officer;
        ``(2) who is in a training leadership position with respect to 
    a specially protected junior member of the armed forces; and
        ``(3) who engages in prohibited sexual activity with such 
    specially protected junior member of the armed forces;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Abuse of Position as Military Recruiter.--Any person subject 
to this chapter--
        ``(1) who is a military recruiter and engages in prohibited 
    sexual activity with an applicant for military service; or
        ``(2) who is a military recruiter and engages in prohibited 
    sexual activity with a specially protected junior member of the 
    armed forces who is enlisted under a delayed entry program;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Consent.--Consent is not a defense for any conduct at issue 
in a prosecution under this section (article).
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section (article):
        ``(1) Specially protected junior member of the armed forces.--
    The term `specially protected junior member of the armed forces' 
    means--
            ``(A) a member of the armed forces who is assigned to, or 
        is awaiting assignment to, basic training or other initial 
        active duty for training, including a member who is enlisted 
        under a delayed entry program;
            ``(B) a member of the armed forces who is a cadet, a 
        midshipman, an officer candidate, or a student in any other 
        officer qualification program; and
            ``(C) a member of the armed forces in any program that, by 
        regulation prescribed by the Secretary concerned, is identified 
        as a training program for initial career qualification.
        ``(2) Training leadership position.--The term `training 
    leadership position' means, with respect to a specially protected 
    junior member of the armed forces, any of the following:
            ``(A) Any drill instructor position or other leadership 
        position in a basic training program, an officer candidate 
        school, a reserve officers' training corps unit, a training 
        program for entry into the armed forces, or any program that, 
        by regulation prescribed by the Secretary concerned, is 
        identified as a training program for initial career 
        qualification.
            ``(B) Faculty and staff of the United States Military 
        Academy, the United States Naval Academy, the United States Air 
        Force Academy, and the United States Coast Guard Academy.
        ``(3) Applicant for military service.--The term `applicant for 
    military service' means a person who, under regulations prescribed 
    by the Secretary concerned, is an applicant for original enlistment 
    or appointment in the armed forces.
        ``(4) Military recruiter.--The term `military recruiter' means 
    a person who, under regulations prescribed by the Secretary 
    concerned, has the primary duty to recruit persons for military 
    service.
        ``(5) Prohibited sexual activity.--The term `prohibited sexual 
    activity' means, as specified in regulations prescribed by the 
    Secretary concerned, inappropriate physical intimacy under 
    circumstances described in such regulations.''.
SEC. 5411. OFFENSES BY SENTINEL OR LOOKOUT.
    Section 895 of title 10, United States Code (article 95 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by 
section 5401(8) of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 895. Art. 95. Offenses by sentinel or lookout
    ``(a) Drunk or Sleeping on Post, or Leaving Post Before Being 
Relieved.--Any sentinel or lookout who is drunk on post, who sleeps on 
post, or who leaves post before being regularly relieved, shall be 
punished--
        ``(1) if the offense is committed in time of war, by death or 
    such other punishment as a court-martial may direct; and
        ``(2) if the offense is committed other than in time of war, by 
    such punishment, other than death, as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Loitering or Wrongfully Sitting on Post.--Any sentinel or 
lookout who loiters or wrongfully sits down on post shall be punished 
as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5412. DISRESPECT TOWARD SENTINEL OR LOOKOUT.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 895 (article 95 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5411 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 895a. Art. 95a. Disrespect toward sentinel or lookout
    ``(a) Disrespectful Language Toward Sentinel or Lookout.--Any 
person subject to this chapter who, knowing that another person is a 
sentinel or lookout, uses wrongful and disrespectful language that is 
directed toward and within the hearing of the sentinel or lookout, who 
is in the execution of duties as a sentinel or lookout, shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Disrespectful Behavior Toward Sentinel or Lookout.--Any 
person subject to this chapter who, knowing that another person is a 
sentinel or lookout, behaves in a wrongful and disrespectful manner 
that is directed toward and within the sight of the sentinel or 
lookout, who is in the execution of duties as a sentinel or lookout, 
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5413. RELEASE OF PRISONER WITHOUT AUTHORITY; DRINKING WITH 
PRISONER.
    Section 896 of title 10, United States Code (article 96 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 896. Art. 96. Release of prisoner without authority; drinking 
      with prisoner
    ``(a) Release of Prisoner Without Authority.--Any person subject to 
this chapter--
        ``(1) who, without authority to do so, releases a prisoner; or
        ``(2) who, through neglect or design, allows a prisoner to 
    escape;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct, whether or not the 
prisoner was committed in strict compliance with the law.
    ``(b) Drinking With Prisoner.--Any person subject to this chapter 
who unlawfully drinks any alcoholic beverage with a prisoner shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5414. PENALTY FOR ACTING AS A SPY.
    Section 903 of title 10, United States Code (article 103 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by 
section 5401(7) of this Act, is amended by inserting before the period 
at the end of the first sentence the following: ``or such other 
punishment as a court-martial or a military commission may direct''.
SEC. 5415. PUBLIC RECORDS OFFENSES.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 903b (article 103b of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as redesignated by section 5401(5) of this 
Act, the following new section (article):
``Sec. 904. Art. 104. Public records offenses
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, willfully and 
unlawfully--
        ``(1) alters, conceals, removes, mutilates, obliterates, or 
    destroys a public record; or
        ``(2) takes a public record with the intent to alter, conceal, 
    remove, mutilate, obliterate, or destroy the public record;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5416. FALSE OR UNAUTHORIZED PASS OFFENSES.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 905 (article 105 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by section 
5401(12) of this Act, the following new section (article):
``Sec. 905a. Art. 105a. False or unauthorized pass offenses
    ``(a) Wrongful Making, Altering, etc.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who, wrongfully and falsely, makes, alters, counterfeits, or 
tampers with a military or official pass, permit, discharge 
certificate, or identification card shall be punished as a court-
martial may direct.
    ``(b) Wrongful Sale, etc.--Any person subject to this chapter who 
wrongfully sells, gives, lends, or disposes of a false or unauthorized 
military or official pass, permit, discharge certificate, or 
identification card, knowing that the pass, permit, discharge 
certificate, or identification card is false or unauthorized, shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Wrongful Use or Possession.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who wrongfully uses or possesses a false or unauthorized 
military or official pass, permit, discharge certificate, or 
identification card, knowing that the pass, permit, discharge 
certificate, or identification card is false or unauthorized, shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5417. IMPERSONATION OFFENSES.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 905a (article 105a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5416 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 906. Art. 106. Impersonation of officer, noncommissioned or 
      petty officer, or agent or official
    ``(a) In General.--Any person subject to this chapter who, 
wrongfully and willfully, impersonates--
        ``(1) an officer, a noncommissioned officer, or a petty 
    officer;
        ``(2) an agent of superior authority of one of the armed 
    forces; or
        ``(3) an official of a government;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Impersonation With Intent to Defraud.--Any person subject to 
this chapter who, wrongfully, willfully, and with intent to defraud, 
impersonates any person referred to in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of 
subsection (a) shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Impersonation of Government Official Without Intent to 
Defraud.--Any person subject to this chapter who, wrongfully, 
willfully, and without intent to defraud, impersonates an official of a 
government by committing an act that exercises or asserts the authority 
of the office that the person claims to have shall be punished as a 
court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5418. INSIGNIA OFFENSES.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 906 (article 106 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as added by section 5417 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 906a. Art. 106a. Wearing unauthorized insignia, decoration, 
      badge, ribbon, device, or lapel button
    ``Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who is not authorized to wear an insignia, decoration, 
    badge, ribbon, device, or lapel button; and
        ``(2) who wrongfully wears such insignia, decoration, badge, 
    ribbon, device, or lapel button upon the person's uniform or 
    civilian clothing;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5419. FALSE OFFICIAL STATEMENTS; FALSE SWEARING.
    Section 907 of title 10, United States Code (article 107 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 907. Art. 107. False official statements; false swearing
    ``(a) False Official Statements.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who, with intent to deceive--
        ``(1) signs any false record, return, regulation, order, or 
    other official document, knowing it to be false; or
        ``(2) makes any other false official statement knowing it to be 
    false;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) False Swearing.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who takes an oath that--
            ``(A) is administered in a matter in which such oath is 
        required or authorized by law; and
            ``(B) is administered by a person with authority to do so; 
        and
        ``(2) who, upon such oath, makes or subscribes to a statement;
if the statement is false and at the time of taking the oath, the 
person does not believe the statement to be true, shall be punished as 
a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5420. PAROLE VIOLATION.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 907 (article 107 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5419 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 907a. Art. 107a. Parole violation
    ``Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who, having been a prisoner as the result of a court-
    martial conviction or other criminal proceeding, is on parole with 
    conditions; and
        ``(2) who violates the conditions of parole;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5421. WRONGFUL TAKING, OPENING, ETC. OF MAIL MATTER.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 909 (article 109 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), the following new section (article):
``Sec. 909a. Art. 109a. Mail matter: wrongful taking, opening, etc.
    ``(a) Taking.--Any person subject to this chapter who, with the 
intent to obstruct the correspondence of, or to pry into the business 
or secrets of, any person or organization, wrongfully takes mail matter 
before the mail matter is delivered to or received by the addressee 
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Opening, Secreting, Destroying, Stealing.--Any person subject 
to this chapter who wrongfully opens, secretes, destroys, or steals 
mail matter before the mail matter is delivered to or received by the 
addressee shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5422. IMPROPER HAZARDING OF VESSEL OR AIRCRAFT.
    Section 910 of title 10, United States Code (article 110 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 910. Art. 110. Improper hazarding of vessel or aircraft
    ``(a) Willful and Wrongful Hazarding.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who, willfully and wrongfully, hazards or suffers to be 
hazarded any vessel or aircraft of the armed forces shall be punished 
by death or such other punishment as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Negligent Hazarding.--Any person subject to this chapter who 
negligently hazards or suffers to be hazarded any vessel or aircraft of 
the armed forces shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5423. LEAVING SCENE OF VEHICLE ACCIDENT.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 910 (article 110 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5422 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 911. Art. 111. Leaving scene of vehicle accident
    ``(a) Driver.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who is the driver of a vehicle that is involved in an 
    accident that results in personal injury or property damage; and
        ``(2) who wrongfully leaves the scene of the accident--
            ``(A) without providing assistance to an injured person; or
            ``(B) without providing personal identification to others 
        involved in the accident or to appropriate authorities;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Senior Passenger.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who is a passenger in a vehicle that is involved in an 
    accident that results in personal injury or property damage;
        ``(2) who is the superior commissioned or noncommissioned 
    officer of the driver of the vehicle or is the commander of the 
    vehicle; and
        ``(3) who wrongfully and unlawfully orders, causes, or permits 
    the driver to leave the scene of the accident--
            ``(A) without providing assistance to an injured person; or
            ``(B) without providing personal identification to others 
        involved in the accident or to appropriate authorities;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5424. DRUNKENNESS AND OTHER INCAPACITATION OFFENSES.
    Section 912 of title 10, United States Code (article 112 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 912. Art. 112. Drunkenness and other incapacitation offenses
    ``(a) Drunk on Duty.--Any person subject to this chapter who is 
drunk on duty shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Incapacitation for Duty From Drunkenness or Drug Use.--Any 
person subject to this chapter who, as a result of indulgence in any 
alcoholic beverage or any drug, is incapacitated for the proper 
performance of duty shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Drunk Prisoner.--Any person subject to this chapter who is a 
prisoner and, while in such status, is drunk shall be punished as a 
court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5425. LOWER BLOOD ALCOHOL CONTENT LIMITS FOR CONVICTION OF DRUNKEN 
OR RECKLESS OPERATION OF VEHICLE, AIRCRAFT, OR VESSEL.
    Subsection (b)(3) of section 913 of title 10, United States Code 
(article 113 of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), as transferred 
and redesignated by section 5401(9) of this Act, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``0.10 grams'' both places it appears and 
    inserting ``0.08 grams''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
    Secretary may by regulation prescribe limits that are lower than 
    the limits specified in the preceding sentence, if such lower 
    limits are based on scientific developments, as reflected in 
    Federal law of general applicability.''.
SEC. 5426. ENDANGERMENT OFFENSES.
    Section 914 of title 10, United States Code (article 114 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 914. Art. 114. Endangerment offenses
    ``(a) Reckless Endangerment.--Any person subject to this chapter 
who engages in conduct that--
        ``(1) is wrongful and reckless or is wanton; and
        ``(2) is likely to produce death or grievous bodily harm to 
    another person;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Dueling.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who fights or promotes, or is concerned in or connives at 
    fighting, a duel; or
        ``(2) who, having knowledge of a challenge sent or about to be 
    sent, fails to report the facts promptly to the proper authority;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Firearm Discharge, Endangering Human Life.--Any person 
subject to this chapter who, willfully and wrongly, discharges a 
firearm, under circumstances such as to endanger human life shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(d) Carrying Concealed Weapon.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who unlawfully carries a dangerous weapon concealed on or about 
his person shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5427. COMMUNICATING THREATS.
    Section 915 of title 10, United States Code (article 115 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 915. Art. 115. Communicating threats
    ``(a) Communicating Threats Generally.--Any person subject to this 
chapter who wrongfully communicates a threat to injure the person, 
property, or reputation of another shall be punished as a court-martial 
may direct.
    ``(b) Communicating Threat to Use Explosive, etc.--Any person 
subject to this chapter who wrongfully communicates a threat to injure 
the person or property of another by use of (1) an explosive, (2) a 
weapon of mass destruction, (3) a biological or chemical agent, 
substance, or weapon, or (4) a hazardous material, shall be punished as 
a court-martial may direct.
    ``(c) Communicating False Threat Concerning Use of Explosive, 
etc.--Any person subject to this chapter who maliciously communicates a 
false threat concerning injury to the person or property of another by 
use of (1) an explosive, (2) a weapon of mass destruction, (3) a 
biological or chemical agent, substance, or weapon, or (4) a hazardous 
material, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct. As used in 
the preceding sentence, the term `false threat' means a threat that, at 
the time the threat is communicated, is known to be false by the person 
communicating the threat.''.
SEC. 5428. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT RELATING TO MURDER.
    Section 918(4) of title 10, United States Code (article 118(4) of 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking 
``forcible sodomy,''.
SEC. 5429. CHILD ENDANGERMENT.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 919a (article 119a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), the following new section (article):
``Sec. 919b. Art. 119b. Child endangerment
    ``Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who has a duty for the care of a child under the age of 
    16 years; and
        ``(2) who, through design or culpable negligence, endangers the 
    child's mental or physical health, safety, or welfare;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5430. RAPE AND SEXUAL ASSAULT OFFENSES.
    (a) Offense of Sexual Assault.--Subsection (b) of section 920 of 
title 10, United States Code (article 120 of the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking subparagraph (B); and
            (B) by redesignating subparagraphs (C) and (D) as 
        subparagraphs (B) and (C), respectively; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``another person when'' and inserting 
        ``another person--
            ``(B) when''; and
            (B) by inserting before subparagraph (B), as added by 
        subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the following new 
        subparagraph:
            ``(A) without the consent of the other person; or''.
    (b) Definitions.--
        (1) Sexual act.--Paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of such 
    section (article) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(1) Sexual act.--The term `sexual act' means--
            ``(A) the penetration, however slight, of the penis into 
        the vulva or anus or mouth;
            ``(B) contact between the mouth and the penis, vulva, 
        scrotum, or anus; or
            ``(C) the penetration, however slight, of the vulva or 
        penis or anus of another by any part of the body or any object, 
        with an intent to abuse, humiliate, harass, or degrade any 
        person or to arouse or gratify the sexual desire of any 
        person.''.
        (2) Sexual contact.--Paragraph (2) of such subsection is 
    amended to read as follows:
        ``(2) Sexual contact.--The term `sexual contact' means 
    touching, or causing another person to touch, either directly or 
    through the clothing, the vulva, penis, scrotum, anus, groin, 
    brest, inner thigh, or buttocks of any person, with an intent to 
    abuse, humiliate, harass, or degrade any person or to arouse or 
    gratify the sexual desire of any person. Touching may be 
    accomplished by any part of the body or an object.''.
        (3) Repeal of definition of bodily harm.--Such subsection is 
    further amended--
            (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (8) as 
        paragraphs (3) through (7), respectively.
        (4) Consent.--Paragraph (7) of such subsection, as redesignated 
    by paragraph (3)(B) of this subsection, is further amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                (i) in the second sentence, by striking ``or submission 
            resulting from the use of force, threat of force, or 
            placing another in fear'';
                (ii) by inserting after the second sentence, as amended 
            by clause (i) of this subparagraph the following new 
            sentence: ``Submission resulting from the use of force, 
            threat of force, or placing another person in fear also 
            does not constitute consent.''; and
                (iii) in the last sentence, by striking ``shall not'' 
            and inserting ``does not'';
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``subparagraph (B) or 
        (D)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (B) or (C)''; and
            (C) in subparagraph (C)--
                (i) by striking the first sentence; and
                (ii) in the last sentence, by striking ``, or whether'' 
            and all that follows and inserting a period.
        (5) Incapable of consenting.--Such subsection is further 
    amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph (8):
        ``(8) Incapable of consenting.--The term `incapable of 
    consenting' means the person is--
            ``(A) incapable of appraising the nature of the conduct at 
        issue; or
            ``(B) physically incapable of declining participation in, 
        or communicating unwillingess to engage in, the sexual act at 
        issue.''.
    (c) Rape and Sexual Assault of a Child.--Subsection (h)(1) of 
section 920b of title 10, United States Code (article 120b of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by inserting before the 
period at the end the following: ``, except that the term `sexual act' 
also includes the intentional touching, not through the clothing, of 
the genitalia of another person who has not attained the age of 16 
years with an intent to abuse, humiliate, harass, degrade, or arouse or 
gratify the sexual desire of any person''.
SEC. 5431. DEPOSIT OF OBSCENE MATTER IN THE MAIL.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 920 (article 120 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), the following new section (article):
``Sec. 920a. Art. 120a. Mails: deposit of obscene matter
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, wrongfully and knowingly, 
deposits obscene matter for mailing and delivery shall be punished as a 
court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5432. FRAUDULENT USE OF CREDIT CARDS, DEBIT CARDS, AND OTHER 
ACCESS DEVICES.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 921 (article 121 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), the following new section (article):
``Sec. 921a. Art. 121a. Fraudulent use of credit cards, debit cards, 
      and other access devices
    ``(a) In General.--Any person subject to this chapter who, 
knowingly and with intent to defraud, uses--
        ``(1) a stolen credit card, debit card, or other access device;
        ``(2) a revoked, cancelled, or otherwise invalid credit card, 
    debit card, or other access device; or
        ``(3) a credit card, debit card, or other access device without 
    the authorization of a person whose authorization is required for 
    such use;
to obtain money, property, services, or anything else of value shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Access Device Defined.--In this section (article), the term 
`access device' has the meaning given that term in section 1029 of 
title 18.''.
SEC. 5433. FALSE PRETENSES TO OBTAIN SERVICES.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 921a (article 121a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5432 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 921b. Art. 121b. False pretenses to obtain services
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, with intent to defraud, 
knowingly uses false pretenses to obtain services shall be punished as 
a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5434. ROBBERY.
    Section 922 of title 10, United States Code (article 122 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 922. Art. 122. Robbery
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who takes anything of value 
from the person or in the presence of another, against his will, by 
means of force or violence or fear of immediate or future injury to his 
person or property or to the person or property of a relative or member 
of his family or of anyone in his company at the time of the robbery, 
is guilty of robbery and shall be punished as a court-martial may 
direct.''.
SEC. 5435. RECEIVING STOLEN PROPERTY.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 922 (article 122 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as amended by section 5434 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 922a. Art. 122a. Receiving stolen property
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully receives, buys, 
or conceals stolen property, knowing the property to be stolen 
property, shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5436. OFFENSES CONCERNING GOVERNMENT COMPUTERS.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 922a (article 122a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5435 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 923. Art. 123. Offenses concerning Government computers
    ``(a) In General.--Any person subject to this chapter who--
        ``(1) knowingly accesses a Government computer, with an 
    unauthorized purpose, and by doing so obtains classified 
    information, with reason to believe such information could be used 
    to the injury of the United States, or to the advantage of any 
    foreign nation, and intentionally communicates, delivers, 
    transmits, or causes to be communicated, delivered, or transmitted 
    such information to any person not entitled to receive it;
        ``(2) intentionally accesses a Government computer, with an 
    unauthorized purpose, and thereby obtains classified or other 
    protected information from any Government computer; or
        ``(3) knowingly causes the transmission of a program, 
    information, code, or command, and as a result of such conduct, 
    intentionally causes damage without authorization to a Government 
    computer;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `computer' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 1030 of title 18.
        ``(2) The term `Government computer' means a computer owned or 
    operated by or on behalf of the United States Government.
        ``(3) The term `damage' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 1030 of title 18.''.
SEC. 5437. BRIBERY.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 924 (article 124 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by section 
5401(14) of this Act, the following new section (article):
``Sec. 924a. Art. 124a. Bribery
    ``(a) Asking, Accepting, or Receiving Thing of Value.--Any person 
subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who occupies an official position or who has official 
    duties; and
        ``(2) who wrongfully asks, accepts, or receives a thing of 
    value with the intent to have the person's decision or action 
    influenced with respect to an official matter in which the United 
    States is interested;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Promising, Offering, or Giving Thing of Value.--Any person 
subject to this chapter who wrongfully promises, offers, or gives a 
thing of value to another person, who occupies an official position or 
who has official duties, with the intent to influence the decision or 
action of the other person with respect to an official matter in which 
the United States is interested, shall be punished as a court-martial 
may direct.''.
SEC. 5438. GRAFT.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 924a (article 124a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5437 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 924b. Art. 124b. Graft
    ``(a) Asking, Accepting, or Receiving Thing of Value.--Any person 
subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who occupies an official position or who has official 
    duties; and
        ``(2) who wrongfully asks, accepts, or receives a thing of 
    value as compensation for or in recognition of services rendered or 
    to be rendered by the person with respect to an official matter in 
    which the United States is interested;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Promising, Offering, or Giving Thing of Value.--Any person 
subject to this chapter who wrongfully promises, offers, or gives a 
thing of value to another person, who occupies an official position or 
who has official duties, as compensation for or in recognition of 
services rendered or to be rendered by the other person with respect to 
an official matter in which the United States is interested, shall be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5439. KIDNAPPING.
    Section 925 of title 10, United States Code (article 125 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 925. Art. 125. Kidnapping
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who wrongfully--
        ``(1) seizes, confines, inveigles, decoys, or carries away 
    another person; and
        ``(2) holds the other person against that person's will;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5440. ARSON; BURNING PROPERTY WITH INTENT TO DEFRAUD.
    Section 926 of title 10, United States Code (article 126 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 926. Art. 126. Arson; burning property with intent to defraud
    ``(a) Aggravated Arson.--Any person subject to this chapter who, 
willfully and maliciously, burns or sets on fire an inhabited dwelling, 
or any other structure, movable or immovable, wherein, to the knowledge 
of that person, there is at the time a human being, is guilty of 
aggravated arson and shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Simple Arson.--Any person subject to this chapter who, 
willfully and maliciously, burns or sets fire to the property of 
another is guilty of simple arson and shall be punished as a court-
martial may direct.
    ``(c) Burning Property With Intent to Defraud.--Any person subject 
to this chapter who, willfully, maliciously, and with intent to 
defraud, burns or sets fire to any property shall be punished as a 
court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5441. ASSAULT.
    Section 928 of title 10, United States Code (article 128 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 928. Art. 128. Assault
    ``(a) Assault.--Any person subject to this chapter who, unlawfully 
and with force or violence--
        ``(1) attempts to do bodily harm to another person;
        ``(2) offers to do bodily harm to another person; or
        ``(3) does bodily harm to another person;
is guilty of assault and shall be punished as a court-martial may 
direct.
    ``(b) Aggravated Assault.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who, with the intent to do bodily harm, offers to do 
    bodily harm with a dangerous weapon; or
        ``(2) who, in committing an assault, inflicts substantial 
    bodily harm, or grievous bodily harm on another person;
is guilty of aggravated assault and shall be punished as a court-
martial may direct.
    ``(c) Assault With Intent to Commit Specified Offenses.--
        ``(1) In general.--Any person subject to this chapter who 
    commits assault with intent to commit an offense specified in 
    paragraph (2) shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
        ``(2) Offenses specified.--The offenses referred to in 
    paragraph (1) are murder, voluntary manslaughter, rape, sexual 
    assault, rape of a child, sexual assault of a child, robbery, 
    arson, burglary, and kidnapping.''.
SEC. 5442. BURGLARY AND UNLAWFUL ENTRY.
    Section 929 of title 10, United States Code (article 129 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), and section 929a of such title 
(article 129a), as redesignated by section 5401(10) of this Act, are 
amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 929. Art. 129. Burglary; unlawful entry
    ``(a) Burglary.--Any person subject to this chapter who, with 
intent to commit an offense under this chapter, breaks and enters the 
building or structure of another shall be punished as a court-martial 
may direct.
    ``(b) Unlawful Entry.--Any person subject to this chapter who 
unlawfully enters--
        ``(1) the real property of another; or
        ``(2) the personal property of another which amounts to a 
    structure usually used for habitation or storage;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5443. STALKING.
    Section 930 of title 10, United States Code (article 130 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by 
section 5401(11) of this Act, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 930. Art. 130. Stalking
    ``(a) In General.--Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who wrongfully engages in a course of conduct directed at 
    a specific person that would cause a reasonable person to fear 
    death or bodily harm, including sexual assault, to himself or 
    herself, to a member of his or her immediate family, or to his or 
    her intimate partner;
        ``(2) who has knowledge, or should have knowledge, that the 
    specific person will be placed in reasonable fear of death or 
    bodily harm, including sexual assault, to himself or herself, to a 
    member of his or her immediate family, or to his or her intimate 
    partner; and
        ``(3) whose conduct induces reasonable fear in the specific 
    person of death or bodily harm, including sexual assault, to 
    himself or herself, to a member of his or her immediate family, or 
    to his or her intimate partner;
is guilty of stalking and shall be punished as a court-martial may 
direct.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `conduct' means conduct of any kind, including 
    use of surveillance, the mails, an interactive computer service, an 
    electronic communication service, or an electronic communication 
    system.
        ``(2) The term `course of conduct' means--
            ``(A) a repeated maintenance of visual or physical 
        proximity to a specific person;
            ``(B) a repeated conveyance of verbal threat, written 
        threats, or threats implied by conduct, or a combination of 
        such threats, directed at or toward a specific person; or
            ``(C) a pattern of conduct composed of repeated acts 
        evidencing a continuity of purpose.
        ``(3) The term `repeated', with respect to conduct, means two 
    or more occasions of such conduct.
        ``(4) The term `immediate family', in the case of a specific 
    person, means--
            ``(A) that person's spouse, parent, brother or sister, 
        child, or other person to whom he or she stands in loco 
        parentis; or
            ``(B) any other person living in his or her household and 
        related to him or her by blood or marriage.
        ``(5) The term `intimate partner', in the case of a specific 
    person, means--
            ``(A) a former spouse of the specific person, a person who 
        shares a child in common with the specific person, or a person 
        who cohabits with or has cohabited as a spouse with the 
        specific person; or
            ``(B) a person who has been in a social relationship of a 
        romantic or intimate nature with the specific person, as 
        determined by the length of the relationship, the type of 
        relationship, and the frequency of interaction between the 
        persons involved in the relationship.''.
SEC. 5444. SUBORNATION OF PERJURY.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931 (article 131 of the Uniform Code 
of Military Justice), the following new section (article):
``Sec. 931a. Art. 131a. Subornation of perjury
    ``(a) In General.--Any person subject to this chapter who induces 
and procures another person--
        ``(1) to take an oath; and
        ``(2) to falsely testify, depose, or state upon such oath;
shall, if the conditions specified in subsection (b) are satisfied, be 
punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Conditions.--The conditions referred to in subsection (a) are 
the following:
        ``(1) The oath is administered with respect to a matter for 
    which such oath is required or authorized by law.
        ``(2) The oath is administered by a person having authority to 
    do so.
        ``(3) Upon the oath, the other person willfully makes or 
    subscribes a statement.
        ``(4) The statement is material.
        ``(5) The statement is false.
        ``(6) When the statement is made or subscribed, the person 
    subject to this chapter and the other person do not believe that 
    the statement is true.''.
SEC. 5445. OBSTRUCTING JUSTICE.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931a (article 131a of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5444 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 931b. Art. 131b. Obstructing justice
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who engages in conduct in the 
case of a certain person against whom the accused had reason to believe 
there were or would be criminal or disciplinary proceedings pending, 
with intent to influence, impede, or otherwise obstruct the due 
administration of justice shall be punished as a court-martial may 
direct.''.
SEC. 5446. MISPRISION OF SERIOUS OFFENSE.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931b (article 131b of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5445 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 931c. Art. 131c. Misprision of serious offense
    ``Any person subject to this chapter--
        ``(1) who knows that another person has committed a serious 
    offense; and
        ``(2) wrongfully conceals the commission of the offense and 
    fails to make the commission of the offense known to civilian or 
    military authorities as soon as possible;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5447. WRONGFUL REFUSAL TO TESTIFY.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931c (article 131c of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5446 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 931d. Art. 131d. Wrongful refusal to testify
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, in the presence of a 
court-martial, a board of officers, a military commission, a court of 
inquiry, a preliminary hearing, or an officer taking a deposition, of 
or for the United States, wrongfully refuses to qualify as a witness or 
to answer a question after having been directed to do so by the person 
presiding shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5448. PREVENTION OF AUTHORIZED SEIZURE OF PROPERTY.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931d (article 131d of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5447 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 931e. Art. 131e. Prevention of authorized seizure of property
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, knowing that one or more 
persons authorized to make searches and seizures are seizing, are about 
to seize, or are endeavoring to seize property, destroys, removes, or 
otherwise disposes of the property with intent to prevent the seizure 
thereof shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5449. WRONGFUL INTERFERENCE WITH ADVERSE ADMINISTRATIVE 
PROCEEDING.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931f (article 131f of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as transferred and redesignated by section 
5401(3) of this Act, the following new section (article):
``Sec. 931g. Art. 131g. Wrongful interference with adverse 
      administrative proceeding
    ``Any person subject to this chapter who, having reason to believe 
that an adverse administrative proceeding is pending against any person 
subject to this chapter, wrongfully acts with the intent--
        ``(1) to influence, impede, or obstruct the conduct of the 
    proceeding; or
        ``(2) otherwise to obstruct the due administration of justice;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.''.
SEC. 5450. RETALIATION.
    Subchapter X of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 931g (article 131g of the Uniform 
Code of Military Justice), as added by section 5449 of this Act, the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 932. Art. 132. Retaliation
    ``(a) In General.--Any person subject to this chapter who, with the 
intent to retaliate against any person for reporting or planning to 
report a criminal offense, or making or planning to make a protected 
communication, or with the intent to discourage any person from 
reporting a criminal offense or making or planning to make a protected 
communication--
        ``(1) wrongfully takes or threatens to take an adverse 
    personnel action against any person; or
        ``(2) wrongfully withholds or threatens to withhold a favorable 
    personnel action with respect to any person;
shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `protected communication' means the following:
            ``(A) A lawful communication to a Member of Congress or an 
        Inspector General.
            ``(B) A communication to a covered individual or 
        organization in which a member of the armed forces complains 
        of, or discloses information that the member reasonably 
        believes constitutes evidence of, any of the following:
                ``(i) A violation of law or regulation, including a law 
            or regulation prohibiting sexual harassment or unlawful 
            discrimination.
                ``(ii) Gross mismanagement, a gross waste of funds, an 
            abuse of authority, or a substantial and specific danger to 
            public health or safety.
        ``(2) The term `Inspector General' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1034(h) of this title.
        ``(3) The term `covered individual or organization' means any 
    recipient of a communication specified in clauses (i) through (v) 
    of section 1034(b)(1)(B) of this title.
        ``(4) The term `unlawful discrimination' means discrimination 
    on the basis of race, color, religion, sex, or national origin.''.
SEC. 5451. EXTRATERRITORIAL APPLICATION OF CERTAIN OFFENSES.
    Section 934 of title 10, United States Code (article 134 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new sentence: ``As used in the preceding sentence, the term 
`crimes and offenses not capital' includes any conduct engaged in 
outside the United States, as defined in section 5 of title 18, that 
would constitute a crime or offense not capital if the conduct had been 
engaged in within the special maritime and territorial jurisdiction of 
the United States, as defined in section 7 of title 18.''.
SEC. 5452. TABLE OF SECTIONS.
    The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter X of chapter 
47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice), is amended to read as follows:

                    ``subchapter x--punitive articles

``Sec. Art. 
``877. Art. 77. Principals.
``878. Art. 78. Accessory after the fact.
``879. Art. 79. Conviction of offense charged, lesser included offenses, 
          and attempts.
``880. Art. 80. Attempts.
``881. Art. 81. Conspiracy.
``882. Art. 82. Soliciting commission of offenses.
``883. Art. 83. Malingering.
``884. Art. 84. Breach of medical quarantine.
``885. Art. 85. Desertion.
``886. Art. 86. Absence without leave.
``887. Art. 87. Missing movement; jumping from vessel.
``887a. Art. 87a. Resistence, flight, breach of arrest, and escape.
``887b. Art. 87b. Offenses against correctional custody and restriction.
``888. Art. 88. Contempt toward officials.
``889. Art. 89. Disrespect toward superior commissioned officer; assault 
          of superior commissioned officer.
``890. Art. 90. Willfully disobeying superior commissioned officer.
``891. Art. 91. Insubordinate conduct toward warrant officer, 
          noncommissioned officer, or petty officer.
``892. Art. 92. Failure to obey order or regulation.
``893. Art. 93. Cruelty and maltreatment.
``893a. Art. 93a. Prohibited activities with military recruit or trainee 
          by person in position of special trust.
``894. Art. 94. Mutiny or sedition.
``895. Art. 95. Offenses by sentinel or lookout.
``895a. Art. 95a. Disrespect toward sentinel or lookout.
``896. Art. 96. Release of prisoner without authority; drinking with 
          prisoner.
``897. Art. 97. Unlawful detention.
``898. Art. 98. Misconduct as prisoner.
``899. Art. 99. Misbehavior before the enemy.
``900. Art. 100. Subordinate compelling surrender.
``901. Art. 101. Improper use of countersign.
``902. Art. 102. Forcing a safeguard.
``903. Art. 103. Spies.
``903a. Art. 103a. Espionage.
``903b. Art. 103b. Aiding the enemy.
``904. Art. 104. Public records offenses.
``904a. Art. 104a. Fraudulent enlistment, appointment, or separation.
``904b. Art. 104b. Unlawful enlistment, appointment, or separation.
``905. Art. 105. Forgery.
``905a. Art. 105a. False or unauthorized pass offenses.
``906. Art. 106. Impersonation of officer, noncommissioned or petty 
          officer, or agent or official.
``906a. Art. 106a. Wearing unauthorized insignia, decoration, badge, 
          ribbon, device, or lapel button.
``907. Art. 107. False official statements; false swearing.
``907a. Art. 107a. Parole violation.
``908. Art. 108. Military property of the United States--Loss damage, 
          destruction, or wrongful disposition.
``908a. Art. 108a. Captured or abandoned property.
``909. Art. 109. Property other than military property of the United 
          States--Waste, spoilage, or destruction.
``909a. Art. 109a. Mail matter: wrongful taking, opening, etc..
``910. Art. 110. Improper hazarding of vessel or aircraft.
``911. Art. 111. Leaving scene of vehicle accident.
``912. Art. 112. Drunkenness and other incapacitation offenses.
``912a. Art. 112a. Wrongful use, possession, etc., of controlled 
          substances.
``913. Art. 113. Drunken or reckless operation of a vehicle, aircraft, 
          or vessel.
``914. Art. 114. Endangerment offenses.
``915. Art. 115. Communicating threats.
``916. Art. 116. Riot or breach of peace.
``917. Art. 117. Provoking speeches or gestures.
``918. Art. 118. Murder.
``919. Art. 119. Manslaughter.
``919a. Art. 119a. Death or injury of an unborn child.
``919b. Art. 119b. Child endangerment.
``920. Art. 120. Rape and sexual assault generally.
``920a. Art. 120a. Mails: deposit of obscene matter.
``920b. Art. 120b. Rape and sexual assault of a child.
``920c. Art. 120c. Other sexual misconduct.
``921. Art. 121. Larceny and wrongful appropriation.
``921a. Art. 121a. Fraudulent use of credit cards, debit cards, and 
          other access devices.
``921b. Art. 121b. False pretenses to obtain services.
``922. Art. 122. Robbery.
``922a. Art. 122a. Receiving stolen property.
``923. Art. 123. Offenses concerning Government computers.
``923a. Art. 123a. Making, drawing, or uttering check, draft, or order 
          without sufficient funds.
``924. Art. 124. Frauds against the United States.
``924a. Art. 124a. Bribery.
``924b. Art. 124b. Graft.
``925. Art. 125. Kidnapping.
``926. Art. 126. Arson; burning property with intent to defraud.
``927. Art. 127. Extortion.
``928. Art. 128. Assault.
``928a. Art 128a. Maiming.
``929. Art. 129. Burglary; unlawful entry.
``930. Art. 130. Stalking.
``931. Art. 131. Perjury.
``931a. Art. 131a. Subornation of perjury.
``931b. Art. 131b. Obstructing justice.
``931c. Art. 131c. Misprision of serious offense.
``931d. Art. 131d. Wrongful refusal to testify.
``931e. Art. 131e. Prevention of authorized seizure of property.
``931f. Art. 131f. Noncompliance with procedural rules.
``931g. Art. 131g. Wrongful interference with adverse administrative 
          proceeding.
``932. Art. 132. Retaliation.
``933. Art. 133. Conduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman.
``934. Art. 134. General article.''.

                  TITLE LXI--MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS

Sec. 5501. Technical amendments relating to courts of inquiry.
Sec. 5502. Technical amendment to Article 136.
Sec. 5503. Articles of Uniform Code of Military Justice to be explained 
          to officers upon commissioning.
Sec. 5504. Military justice case management; data collection and 
          accessibility.
SEC. 5501. TECHNICAL AMENDMENTS RELATING TO COURTS OF INQUIRY.
    Section 935(c) of title 10, United States Code (article 135(c) of 
the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(c) Any person'' and inserting ``(c)(1) Any 
    person'';
        (2) by designating the second and third sentences as paragraphs 
    (2) and (3), respectively; and
        (3) in paragraph (2), as so designated, by striking ``subject 
    to this chapter or employed by the Department of Defense'' and 
    inserting ``who is (A) subject to this chapter, (B) employed by the 
    Department of Defense, or (C) with respect to the Coast Guard, 
    employed by the department in which the Coast Guard is operating 
    when it is not operating as a service in the Navy, and''.
SEC. 5502. TECHNICAL AMENDMENT TO ARTICLE 136.
    Section 936 of title 10, United States Code (article 136 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by striking the last five 
words in the section heading.
SEC. 5503. ARTICLES OF UNIFORM CODE OF MILITARY JUSTICE TO BE EXPLAINED 
TO OFFICERS UPON COMMISSIONING.
    Section 937 of title 10, United States Code (article 137 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``(a)(1) The sections of 
    this title (articles of the Uniform Code of Military Justice)'' and 
    inserting `` (a) Enlisted Members.--(1) The sections (articles) of 
    this chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice)'';
        (2) by striking subsection (b); and
        (3) by adding after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(b) Officers.--(1) The sections (articles) of this chapter (the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice) specified in paragraph (2) shall be 
carefully explained to each officer at the time of (or within six 
months after)--
        ``(A) the initial entrance of the officer on active duty as an 
    officer; or
        ``(B) the initial commissioning of the officer in a reserve 
    component.
    ``(2) This subsection applies with respect to the sections 
(articles) specified in subsection (a)(3) and such other sections 
(articles) as the Secretary concerned may prescribe by regulation.
    ``(c) Training for Certain Officers.--Under regulations prescribed 
by the Secretary concerned, officers with the authority to convene 
courts-martial or to impose non-judicial punishment shall receive 
periodic training regarding the purposes and administration of this 
chapter. Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense, 
officers assigned to duty in a joint command or a combatant command, 
who have such authority, shall receive additional specialized training 
regarding the purposes and administration of this chapter with respect 
to joint commands and the combatant commands.
    ``(d) Availability and Maintenance of Text.--The text of this 
chapter (the Uniform Code of Military Justice) and the text of the 
regulations prescribed by the President under this chapter shall be--
        ``(1) made available to a member on active duty or to a member 
    of a reserve component, upon request by the member, for the 
    member's personal examination; and
        ``(2) maintained by the Secretary of Defense in electronic 
    formats that are updated periodically and made available on the 
    Internet.''.
SEC. 5504. MILITARY JUSTICE CASE MANAGEMENT; DATA COLLECTION AND 
ACCESSIBILITY.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter XI of chapter 47 of title 10, United 
States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section (article):
``Sec. 940a. Art. 140a. Case management; data collection and 
    accessibility
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe uniform standards and 
criteria for conduct of each of the following functions at all stages 
of the military justice system, including pretrial, trial, post-trial, 
and appellate processes, using, insofar as practicable, the best 
practices of Federal and State courts:
        ``(1) Collection and analysis of data concerning substantive 
    offenses and procedural matters in a manner that facilitates case 
    management and decision making within the military justice system, 
    and that enhances the quality of periodic reviews under section 946 
    of this title (article 146).
        ``(2) Case processing and management.
        ``(3) Timely, efficient, and accurate production and 
    distribution of records of trial within the military justice 
    system.
        ``(4) Facilitation of access to docket information, filings, 
    and records, taking into consideration restrictions appropriate to 
    judicial proceedings and military records.''.
    (b) Effective Dates.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
    section 940a of title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by subsection (a).
        (2) Standards and criteria.--Not later than 4 years after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the standards and criteria under 
    section 940a of title 10, United States Code (article 140a of the 
    Uniform Code of Military Justice), as added by subsection (a), 
    shall take effect.

      TITLE LXII--MILITARY JUSTICE REVIEW PANEL AND ANNUAL REPORTS

Sec. 5521. Military Justice Review Panel.
Sec. 5522. Annual reports.
SEC. 5521. MILITARY JUSTICE REVIEW PANEL.
    Section 946 of title 10, United States Code (article 146 of the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 946. Art. 146. Military Justice Review Panel
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
panel to conduct independent periodic reviews and assessments of the 
operation of this chapter. The panel shall be known as the `Military 
Justice Review Panel' (in this section referred to as the `Panel').
    ``(b) Members.--
        ``(1) Number of members.--The Panel shall be composed of 
    thirteen members.
        ``(2) Appointment of certain members.--Each of the following 
    shall appoint one member of the Panel:
            ``(A) The Secretary of Defense (in consultation with the 
        Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is 
        operating when it is not operating as a service in the Navy).
            ``(B) The Attorney General.
            ``(C) The Judge Advocates General of the Army, Navy, Air 
        Force, and Coast Guard, and the Staff Judge Advocate to the 
        Commandant of the Marine Corps.
        ``(3) Appointment of remaining members by secretary of 
    defense.--The Secretary of Defense shall appoint the remaining 
    members of the Panel, taking into consideration recommendations 
    made by each of the following:
            ``(A) The chairman and ranking minority member of the 
        Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on 
        Armed Services of the House of Representatives.
            ``(B) The Chief Justice of the United States.
            ``(C) The Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals 
        for the Armed Forces.
    ``(c) Qualifications of Members.--The members of the Panel shall be 
appointed from among private United States citizens with expertise in 
criminal law, as well as appropriate and diverse experience in 
investigation, prosecution, defense, victim representation, or 
adjudication with respect to courts-martial, Federal civilian courts, 
or State courts.
    ``(d) Chair.--The Secretary of Defense shall select the chair of 
the Panel from among the members.
    ``(e) Term; Vacancies.--Each member shall be appointed for a term 
of eight years, and no member may serve more than one term. Any vacancy 
shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
    ``(f) Reviews and Reports.--
        ``(1) Initial review of recent amendments to ucmj.--During 
    fiscal year 2020, the Panel shall conduct an initial review and 
    assessment of the implementation of the amendments made to this 
    chapter during the preceding five years. In conducting the initial 
    review and assessment, the Panel may review such other aspects of 
    the operation of this chapter as the Panel considers appropriate.
        ``(2) Sentencing data collection and report.--During fiscal 
    year 2020, the Panel shall gather and analyze sentencing data 
    collected from each of the armed forces from general and special 
    courts-martial applying offense-based sentencing under section 856 
    of this title (article 56). The sentencing data shall include the 
    number of accused who request member sentencing and the number who 
    request sentencing by military judge alone, the offenses which the 
    accused were convicted of, and the resulting sentence for each 
    offense in each case. The Judge Advocates General and the Staff 
    Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall provide 
    the sentencing data in the format and for the duration established 
    by the chair of the Panel. Not later than October 31, 2020, the 
    Panel shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives through the Secretary of 
    Defense a report setting forth the Panel's findings and 
    recommendations on the need for sentencing reform.
        ``(3) Periodic comprehensive reviews.--During fiscal year 2024 
    and every eight years thereafter, the Panel shall conduct a 
    comprehensive review and assessment of the operation of this 
    chapter.
        ``(4) Periodic interim reviews.--During fiscal year 2028 and 
    every eight years thereafter, the Panel shall conduct an interim 
    review and assessment of such other aspects of the operation of 
    this chapter as the Panel considers appropriate. In addition, at 
    the request of the Secretary of Defense, the Panel may, at any 
    time, review and assess other specific matters relating to the 
    operation of this chapter.
        ``(5) Reports.--Not later than December 31 of each year during 
    which the Panel conducts a review and assessment under this 
    subsection, the Panel shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
    setting forth the results of such review and assessment, including 
    the Panel's findings and recommendations.
    ``(g) Hearings.--The Panel may hold such hearings, sit and act at 
such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such evidence 
as the Panel considers appropriate to carry out its duties under this 
section.
    ``(h) Information From Federal Agencies.--Upon request of the chair 
of the Panel, a department or agency of the Federal Government shall 
provide information that the Panel considers necessary to carry out its 
duties under this section.
    ``(i) Administrative Matters.--
        ``(1) Members to serve without pay.--Members of the Panel shall 
    serve without pay, but shall be allowed travel expenses, including 
    per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates authorized for employees 
    of agencies under subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, while away 
    from their homes or regular places of business in the performance 
    of services for the Panel.
        ``(2) Staffing and resources.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    provide staffing and resources to support the Panel.
    ``(j) Federal Advisory Committee Act.--The Federal Advisory 
Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the Panel.''.
SEC. 5522. ANNUAL REPORTS.
    Subchapter XII of chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the 
Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new section (article):
``Sec. 946a. Art. 146a. Annual reports
    ``(a) Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces.--Not later than 
December 31 each year, the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces shall 
submit a report that, with respect to the previous fiscal year, 
provides information on the number and status of completed and pending 
cases before the Court, and such other matters as the Court considers 
appropriate regarding the operation of this chapter.
    ``(b) Service Reports.--Not later than December 31 each year, the 
Judge Advocates General and the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant 
of the Marine Corps shall each submit a report, with respect to the 
preceding fiscal year, containing the following:
        ``(1) Data on the number and status of pending cases.
        ``(2) Information on the appellate review process, including--
            ``(A) information on compliance with processing time goals;
            ``(B) descriptions of the circumstances surrounding cases 
        in which general or special court-martial convictions were (i) 
        reversed because of command influence or denial of the right to 
        speedy review or (ii) otherwise remitted because of loss of 
        records of trial or other administrative deficiencies; and
            ``(C) an analysis of each case in which a provision of this 
        chapter was held unconstitutional.
        ``(3)(A) An explanation of measures implemented by the armed 
    force concerned to ensure the ability of judge advocates--
            ``(i) to participate competently as trial counsel and 
        defense counsel in cases under this chapter;
            ``(ii) to preside as military judges in cases under this 
        chapter; and
            ``(iii) to perform the duties of Special Victims' Counsel, 
        when so designated under section 1044e of this title.
        ``(B) The explanation under subparagraph (A) shall specifically 
    identify the measures that focus on capital cases, national 
    security cases, sexual assault cases, and proceedings of military 
    commissions.
        ``(4) The independent views of each Judge Advocate General and 
    of the Staff Judge Advocate to the Commandant of the Marine Corps 
    as to the sufficiency of resources available within the respective 
    armed forces, including total workforce, funding, training, and 
    officer and enlisted grade structure, to capably perform military 
    justice functions.
        ``(5) Such other matters regarding the operation of this 
    chapter as may be appropriate.
    ``(c) Submission.--Each report under this section shall be 
submitted--
        ``(1) to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives; and
        ``(2) to the Secretary of Defense, the Secretaries of the 
    military departments, and the Secretary of the department in which 
    the Coast Guard is operating when it is not operating as a service 
    in the Navy.''.

         TITLE LXIII--CONFORMING AMENDMENTS AND EFFECTIVE DATES

Sec. 5541. Amendments to UCMJ subchapter tables of sections.
Sec. 5542. Effective dates.

SEC. 5541. AMENDMENTS TO UCMJ SUBCHAPTER TABLES OF SECTIONS.
    The tables of sections for the specified subchapters of chapter 47 
of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice), 
are amended as follows:
        (1) Subchapter ii; apprehension and restraint.--The table of 
    sections at the beginning of subchapter II is amended--
            (A) by striking the item relating to section 810 (article 
        10) and inserting the following new item:

``810. Art. 10. Restraint of persons charged.''; and

            (B) by striking the item relating to section 812 (article 
        12) and inserting the following new item:

``812. Art. 12. Prohibition of confinement of members of the armed 
          forces with enemy prisoners and certain others.''.

        (2) Subchapter v; composition of courts-martial.--The table of 
    sections at the beginning of subchapter V is amended--
            (A) by striking the item relating to section 825a (article 
        25a) and inserting the following new item:

``825. Art. 25a. Number of court-martial members in capital cases.'';

            (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 826 
        (article 26) the following new item:

``826a. Art. 26a. Military magistrates.''; and

            (C) by striking the item relating to section 829 (article 
        29) and inserting the following new item:

``829. Art. 29. Assembly and impaneling of members; detail of new 
          members and military judges.''.

        (3) Subchapter vi; pre-trial procedure.--The table of sections 
    at the beginning of subchapter VI is amended--
            (A) by inserting after the item relating to section 830 
        (article 30) the following new item:

``830. Art. 30a. Certain proceedings conducted before referral.''; and

            (B) by striking the items relating to sections 832 through 
        835 (articles 32 through 35) and inserting the following new 
        items:

``832. Art. 32. Preliminary hearing required before referral to general 
          court-martial.
``833. Art. 33. Disposition guidance.
``834. Art. 34. Advice to convening authority before referral for trial.
``835. Art. 35. Service of charges; commencement of trial.''.

        (4) Subchapter vii; trial procedure.--The table of sections at 
    the beginning of subchapter VII is amended--
            (A) by striking the items relating to sections 846 through 
        848 (articles 46 through 48) and inserting the following new 
        items:

``846. Art. 46. Opportunity to obtain witnesses and other evidence in 
          trials by court-martial.
``847. Art. 47. Refusal of person not subject to chapter to appear, 
          testify, or produce evidence.
``848. Art. 48. Contempt.'';

            (B) by striking the item relating to section 850 (article 
        50) and inserting the following new item:

``850. Art. 50. Admissibility of sworn testimony from records of courts 
          of inquiry.'';

            (C) by striking the items relating to section 852 (article 
        52) and inserting the following new item:

``852. Art. 52. Votes required for conviction, sentencing, and other 
          matters.''; and

            (D) by striking the item relating to section 853 (article 
        53) and inserting the following new items:

``853. Art. 53. Findings and sentencing.
``853a. Art. 53a. Plea agreements.''.

        (5) Subchapter viii; sentences.--The table of sections at the 
    beginning of subchapter VIII is amended--
            (A) by striking the item relating to section 856 (article 
        56) and inserting the following new item:

``856. Art. 56. Sentencing.''; and

            (B) by striking the items relating to sections 856a and 
        857a (articles 56a and 57a).
        (6) Subchapter ix; post-trial procedure.--The table of sections 
    at the beginning of subchapter IX is amended--
            (A) by striking the items relating to sections 860 and 61 
        (articles 60 and 61) and inserting the following new items:

``860. Art. 60. Post-trial processing in general and special courts-
          martial.
``860a. Art. 60a. Limited authority to act on sentence in specified 
          post-trial circumstances.
``860b. Art. 60b. Post-trial actions in summary courts-martial and 
          certain general and special courts-martial.
``860c. Art. 60c. Entry of judgment.
``861. Art. 61. Waiver of right to appeal; withdrawal of appeal.'';

            (B) by striking the items relating to sections 864 through 
        866 (articles 64 through 66) and inserting the following new 
        items:

``864. Art. 64. Judge advocate review of finding of guilty in summary 
          court-martial.
``865. Art. 65. Transmittal and review of records.
``866. Art. 66. Courts of Criminal Appeals.'';

            (C) by striking the item relating to section 869 (article 
        69) and inserting the following new item:

``869. Art. 69. Review by Judge Advocate General.''; and

            (D) by striking the item relating to section 871 (article 
        71).
        (7) Subchapter xi; miscellaneous provisions.--The table of 
    sections at the beginning of subchapter XI is amended--
            (A) by striking the item relating to section 936 (article 
        136) and inserting the following new item:

``936. Art. 136. Authority to administer oaths.''; and

            (B) by inserting after the item relating to section 940 
        (article 140) the following new item:

``940a. Art. 140a. Case management; data collection and 
          accessibility.''.

        (8) Subchapter xii; united states court of appeals for the 
    armed forces.--The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter 
    XII is amended by striking the item relating to section 946 
    (article 146) and inserting the following new items:

``946. Art. 146. Military Justice Review Panel.
``946a. Art. 146a. Annual reports.''.
SEC. 5542. EFFECTIVE DATES.
    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this division, the 
amendments made by this division shall take effect on the date 
designated by the President, which date shall be not later than the 
first day of the first calendar month that begins two years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Implementing Regulations.--The President shall prescribe 
regulations implementing this division and the amendments made by this 
division by not later than one year after the date of the enactment of 
this Act, except as otherwise provided in this division.
    (c) Applicability.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this division and 
    the amendments made by this division, the President shall prescribe 
    in regulations whether, and to what extent, the amendments made by 
    this division shall apply to a case in which one or more actions 
    under chapter 47 of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code 
    of Military Justice), have been taken before the effective date of 
    such amendments.
        (2) Inapplicability to cases in which charges already referred 
    to trial on effective date.--Except as otherwise provided in this 
    division or the amendments made by this division, the amendments 
    made by this division shall not apply to any case in which charges 
    are referred to trial by court-martial before the effective date of 
    such amendments. Proceedings in any such case shall be held in the 
    same manner and with the same effect as if such amendments had not 
    been enacted.
        (3) Punitive article amendments.--
            (A) In general.--The amendments made by title LX shall not 
        apply to any offense committed before the effective date of 
        such amendments.
            (B) Construction.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be 
        construed to invalidate the prosecution of any offense 
        committed before the effective date of such amendments.
        (4) Sentencing amendments.--The regulations prescribing the 
    authorized punishments for any offense committed before the 
    effective date of the amendments made by title LVIII shall apply to 
    the authorized punishments for the offense, as in effect at the 
    time the offense is committed.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
