[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 735 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 735

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 18, 2016.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for further consideration 
of the bill (H.R. 4909) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2017 for 
military activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, 
to prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes.
    Sec. 2.  (a) No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order 
except those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution and amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this resolution.
     (b) Each further amendment printed in the report of the Committee on Rules 
shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only 
by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole.
    (c) All points of order against the further amendments printed in the report 
of the Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in section 3 of this 
resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Armed Services or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered pursuant to this 
section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 minutes equally 
divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee 
on Armed Services or their designees, shall not be subject to amendment, and 
shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in 
the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment 
pursuant to this resolution the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the 
House with such further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
