[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 411 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 411

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 10, 2015.
Whereas section 135(h)(1) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as enacted by 
        section 2 of the Iran Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015, defined the 
        term ``agreement'' as meaning ``an agreement related to the nuclear 
        program of Iran that includes the United States, commits the United 
        States to take action, or pursuant to which the United States commits or 
        otherwise agrees to take action, regardless of the form it takes, 
        whether a political commitment or otherwise, and regardless of whether 
        it is legally binding or not, including any joint comprehensive plan of 
        action entered into or made between Iran and any other parties, and any 
        additional materials related thereto, including annexes, appendices, 
        codicils, side agreements, implementing materials, documents, and 
        guidance, technical or other understandings, and any related agreements, 
        whether entered into or implemented prior to the agreement or to be 
        entered into or implemented in the future.'';
Whereas section C(14) of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action requires Iran to 
        implement the ``Roadmap for Clarification of Past and Present 
        Outstanding Issues regarding Iran's Nuclear Program'' (referred to as 
        the ``Roadmap'') which was agreed to with the IAEA;
Whereas the Roadmap identifies two separate, confidential agreements between the 
        IAEA and Iran, one to address remaining outstanding issues related to 
        ``Possible Military Dimensions'' of Iran's nuclear program, and another 
        ``regarding the issue of Parchin'';
Whereas both of those agreements constitute side agreements within the meaning 
        of section 135(h)(1);
Whereas section 135(a)(1)(A) requires the President to transmit the agreement, 
        including any side agreements, as defined by section 135(h)(1) to the 
        appropriate congressional committees and leadership;
Whereas the Executive Communication numbered 2307 and captioned ``A letter from 
        the Assistant Secretary, Legislative Affairs, Department of State, 
        transmitting a letter and attachments satisfying all requirements of 
        Sec. 135(a) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended by the Iran 
        Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (Pub. L. 114-17), as received July 
        19, 2015'', did not include the text of either side agreement with the 
        IAEA; and
Whereas the President has not subsequently transmitted to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership the text of the separate 
        agreements identified in the Roadmap: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That--
            (1) the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran 
        Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 because the communication from the 
        President did not constitute the agreement as defined by section 
        135(h)(1) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954; and
            (2) the period for review by Congress of nuclear agreements with 
        Iran under section 135(b) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 has not 
        commenced because the agreement has not yet been transmitted to the 
        appropriate congressional committees and leadership.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
