[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2755 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.2755

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
To provide Capitol-flown flags to the immediate family of firefighters, 
 law enforcement officers, members of rescue squads or ambulance crews, 
     and public safety officers who are killed in the line of duty.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Fallen Heroes Flag Act of 2016''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
    In this Act--
        (1) the term ``Capitol-flown flag'' means a flag of the United 
    States flown over the Capitol in honor of the deceased individual 
    for whom the flag is requested;
        (2) the terms ``chaplain'', ``firefighter'', ``law enforcement 
    officer'', ``member of a rescue squad or ambulance crew'', and 
    ``public agency'' have the meanings given such terms in section 
    1204 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (42 
    U.S.C. 3796b);
        (3) the term ``immediate family member'', with respect to an 
    individual, means--
            (A) the spouse, parent, brother, sister, or child of the 
        individual or a person to whom the individual stands in loco 
        parentis; or
            (B) any other person related to the individual by blood or 
        marriage;
        (4) the term ``public safety officer'' means an individual 
    serving a public agency in an official capacity, with or without 
    compensation, as a law enforcement officer, as a firefighter, or as 
    a chaplain; and
        (5) the term ``Representative'' includes a Delegate or Resident 
    Commissioner to the Congress.
SEC. 3. PROVIDING CAPITOL-FLOWN FLAGS FOR FAMILIES OF FALLEN HEROES.
    (a) In General.--At the request of an immediate family member of a 
firefighter, law enforcement officer, member of a rescue squad or 
ambulance crew, or public safety officer who died in the line of duty, 
the Representative or Senator of the family may provide to the family a 
Capitol-flown flag, together with the certificate described in 
subsection (c).
    (b) No Cost to Family.--A Capitol-flown flag provided under this 
section shall be provided at no cost to the family.
    (c) Certificate.--The certificate described in this subsection is a 
certificate which is signed by the Speaker of the House of 
Representatives and the Representative, or the President pro tempore of 
the Senate and the Senator, providing the Capitol-flown flag, as 
applicable, and which contains an expression of sympathy for the family 
involved from the House of Representatives or the Senate, as 
applicable.
SEC. 4. REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Architect of the Capitol shall issue regulations for 
carrying out this Act, including regulations to establish procedures 
(including any appropriate forms, guidelines, and accompanying 
certificates) for requesting a Capitol-flown flag.
    (b) Review.--The regulations issued under subsection (a) shall take 
effect upon approval by the Committee on House Administration of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration 
of the Senate.
SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    There are authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 
2017 through 2022 such sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act, 
to be derived from amounts appropriated in each such fiscal year for 
the operation of the Architect of the Capitol, except that the 
aggregate amount appropriated to carry out this Act for all such fiscal 
years may not exceed $40,000.
SEC. 6. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    This Act shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act, 
except that a Capitol-flown flag may not be provided under section 3 
until the regulations issued under section 4(a) take effect in 
accordance with section 4(b).

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
