[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2945 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2945

     To promote effective registered apprenticeships, for skills, 
          credentials, and employment, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              May 18, 2016

Mrs. Murray (for herself, Mr. Hatch, Mr. Kaine, Mr. Scott, Mr. Franken, 
 and Ms. Collins) introduced the following bill; which was read twice 
and referred to the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To promote effective registered apprenticeships, for skills, 
          credentials, and employment, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Effective 
Apprenticeships to Rebuild National Skills Act'' or the ``EARNS Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings and purposes.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
             TITLE I--PROMOTING REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIPS

Sec. 101. Promoting registered apprenticeship programs.
Sec. 102. Promoting integration with postsecondary education.
             TITLE II--PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENT

Sec. 201. Expanding registered apprenticeship programs.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS AND PURPOSES.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) A highly skilled workforce is necessary to compete in 
        the global economy, support economic growth, and maintain the 
        standard of living of the United States.
            (2) The apprenticeship model is a longstanding, on-the-job 
        training and education model that prepares workers for the 
        skill demands of particular occupations and employers while, at 
        the same time, providing the workers with recognized, portable 
        credentials, and wages while in training.
            (3) The registered apprenticeship program model has been 
        successful in skilled trade industries, including construction 
        and manufacturing, as well as service industries, such as 
        health care, and holds great potential for expansion into other 
        industries.
            (4) Registered apprenticeships are becoming increasingly 
        innovative and diverse in their designs, partnerships, 
        timeframes, and use of emerging concepts such as competency-
        based learning, and will continue to evolve to meet emerging 
        skill requirements, while maintaining high standards and 
        quality.
            (5) Registered apprenticeship programs are an essential 
        element of an effective workforce development system and help 
        individuals attain a recognized postsecondary credential, 
        contributing to their personal economic sustainability.
            (6) According to a report from the Georgetown University 
        Center on Education and the Workforce, by 2020 the United 
        States will face a shortage of 5,000,000 workers with 
        recognized postsecondary credentials.
            (7) According to a 2012 report from the Annie E. Casey 
        Foundation, youth employment in the United States has reached 
        the lowest point since World War II. More than 6,000,000 young 
        people ages 16 through 24 are disconnected from school and 
        work.
            (8) A 2012 evaluation of registered apprenticeship programs 
        in 10 States by Mathematica Policy Research found that--
                    (A) individuals who completed registered 
                apprenticeship programs earned over $240,000 more over 
                their careers than individuals not participating in 
                such apprenticeship programs;
                    (B) the estimated social benefits of registered 
                apprenticeship programs, including additional 
                productivity of apprentices and the reduction in 
                governmental expenditures as a result of reduced use of 
                unemployment compensation and public assistance, 
                exceeded the costs of the programs by more than $49,000 
                per program; and
                    (C) the tax return on every Federal Government 
                dollar invested in registered apprenticeship programs 
                was $27.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            (1) to increase the number of highly skilled workers in the 
        United States, particularly in in-demand industry sectors and 
        occupations;
            (2) to increase the attainment of recognized postsecondary 
        credentials by participants;
            (3) to increase awareness about the value of the registered 
        apprenticeship program model as an effective earn-and-learn 
        model for students, workers, and employers;
            (4) to support the development and expansion of registered 
        apprenticeship programs with employers, joint labor-management 
        partnerships, trade and professional associations, and other 
        program sponsors, that offer jobs that lead to economic self-
        sufficiency;
            (5) to support the development and expansion of effective 
        pre-apprenticeship programs that lead to success in a 
        registered apprenticeship program;
            (6) to support a closer alignment between registered 
        apprenticeship programs, the workforce development system, 
        career and technical education, and postsecondary education, 
        including institutions of higher education; and
            (7) to support innovative models of effective work-based 
        learning.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Office of Apprenticeship appointed under 
        section 101(a).
            (2) Career pathway.--The term ``career pathway'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation 
        and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
            (3) Educational service agency.--The term ``educational 
        service agency''--
                    (A) has the meaning given the term in section 8101 
                of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 
                (20 U.S.C. 7801); and
                    (B) includes a collaborative of those agencies.
            (4) High school.--The term ``high school'' means a 
        nonprofit institutional day or residential school that--
                    (A) provides secondary education, as determined 
                under State law;
                    (B) grants a diploma, as defined by the State; and
                    (C) includes, at least, grade 12.
            (5) In-demand industry sector or occupation.--The term 
        ``in-demand industry sector or occupation'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
            (6) Local and state workforce development boards.--The 
        terms ``local workforce development board'' and ``State 
        workforce development board'' have the meanings given the terms 
        ``local board'' and ``State board'', respectively, in section 3 
        of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
        3102).
            (7) National apprenticeship system.--The term ``national 
        apprenticeship system'' means the collective group of 
        registered apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship 
        programs in the Nation (including the rules and regulations 
        governing the 2 types of programs).
            (8) Postsecondary educational institution.--The term 
        ``postsecondary educational institution'' means an institution 
        of higher education, as defined in section 102 of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
            (9) Pre-apprenticeship program.--The term ``pre-
        apprenticeship program'' means a program or set of strategies 
        that--
                    (A) is designed to prepare individuals to enter and 
                succeed in a registered apprenticeship program;
                    (B) is carried out by an eligible entity (meaning 
                an entity described in section 101(b)(2)(C) that has an 
                application approved under section 101(b)(3)) that has 
                a documented partnership with at least 1 sponsor of a 
                registered apprenticeship program; and
                    (C) includes each of the following elements:
                            (i) Training (including a curriculum for 
                        the training), aligned with industry standards 
                        and reviewed and approved annually by sponsors 
                        of the registered apprenticeships within the 
                        documented partnership, that will prepare 
                        individuals by teaching the skills and 
                        competencies needed to enter one or more 
                        registered apprenticeship programs.
                            (ii) Provision of hands-on training and 
                        theoretical education to individuals that--
                                    (I) accurately simulates the 
                                industry and occupational conditions of 
                                the registered apprenticeship program 
                                described in subparagraph (B);
                                    (II) is carried out in a manner 
                                that includes proper observation of 
                                supervision and safety protocols; and
                                    (III) is carried out in a manner 
                                that does not displace a paid employee.
                            (iii) A formal agreement with a sponsor of 
                        a registered apprenticeship program that would 
                        enable participants who successfully complete 
                        the pre-apprenticeship program to enter 
                        directly into the registered apprenticeship 
                        program (if a place in the program is 
                        available), and includes agreements concerning 
                        earning credit recognized by a postsecondary 
                        educational institution for skills and 
                        competencies acquired during the pre-
                        apprenticeship program.
            (10) Recognized postsecondary credential.--The term 
        ``recognized postsecondary credential'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and 
        Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102).
            (11) Registered apprenticeship program.--The term 
        ``registered apprenticeship program'' means a program 
        registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as 
        the ``National Apprenticeship Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 
        29 U.S.C. 50 et seq.).
            (12) Secretary.--Except as provided in section 102 or as 
        otherwise modified, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Labor, acting through the Administrator.
            (13) Sponsor.--The term ``sponsor'' means an employer, 
        joint labor-management partnership, trade association, 
        professional association, labor organization, or other entity 
        that administers a registered apprenticeship program.

             TITLE I--PROMOTING REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIPS

SEC. 101. PROMOTING REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS.

    (a) Establishment of the Office of Apprenticeship.--
            (1) Office.--There is established, in the Employment and 
        Training Administration of the Department of Labor, an Office 
        of Apprenticeship.
            (2) Administrator.--The Office shall be headed by an 
        Administrator of the Office of Apprenticeship appointed by the 
        Assistant Secretary for Employment and Training. The Assistant 
        Secretary shall appoint an individual who has the demonstrated 
        knowledge of registered apprenticeship programs necessary to 
        serve as the Administrator.
            (3) Responsibilities.--The Administrator, through the 
        Office of Apprenticeship, shall carry out responsibilities 
        including--
                    (A) determining whether an apprenticeship program 
                meets the requirements to become a registered 
                apprenticeship program and maintains the standards 
                necessary to remain a registered apprenticeship 
                program;
                    (B) managing the national apprenticeship system;
                    (C) carrying out activities under subsection (b) to 
                promote effective pre-apprenticeship programs;
                    (D) promoting awareness about registered 
                apprenticeship programs, including carrying out 
                activities under subsection (c);
                    (E) engaging in regular updates of the registration 
                process, ensuring that such process is easily 
                accessible and efficient for use by sponsors of 
                registered apprenticeship programs;
                    (F) regularly engage with the National Advisory 
                Committee on Apprenticeships and ensure that the 
                required reports of the Committee are submitted to the 
                Secretary and transmitted to Congress;
                    (G) promoting greater diversity in registered 
                apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship 
                programs, including by promoting outreach to 
                underrepresented populations, youth, and veterans and 
                supporting the development of apprenticeship models;
                    (H) providing for evaluations and research, as 
                described in subsection (e);
                    (I) providing technical assistance to sponsors of 
                registered apprenticeship programs, entities who are 
                interested in developing and becoming sponsors of 
                registered apprenticeship programs, and eligible 
                entities carrying out pre-apprenticeship programs; and
                    (J) coordinating and aligning registered 
                apprenticeship programs with other Federal education 
                and training programs, including those authorized under 
                the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 
                3101 et seq.) and the Carl D. Perkins Career and 
                Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et 
                seq.).
    (b) Supporting the Development of Pre-Apprenticeship Programs.--
            (1) Support.--The Secretary shall support the development 
        of pre-apprenticeship programs.
            (2) Grants.--
                    (A) In general.--Using funds available under 
                subsection (f), the Secretary shall make grants on a 
                competitive basis to eligible entities to provide the 
                Federal share of the cost of carrying out projects that 
                support that development.
                    (B) Period.--The Secretary shall make initial 
                grants under this paragraph for periods of not more 
                than 3 years, except that if an eligible entity 
                demonstrates satisfactory performance under paragraph 
                (6) by the end of that third year, the Secretary may 
                extend the grant period up to an additional 1 year for 
                that entity.
                    (C) Eligible entity.--To be eligible to receive a 
                grant from the Secretary under this subsection, an 
                entity shall be a public-private partnership consisting 
                of--
                            (i) a local educational agency, high 
                        school, area career and technical school (as 
                        defined in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins 
                        Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 
                        U.S.C. 2302)), educational service agency (as 
                        defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and 
                        Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
                        7801)), 2- or 4-year postsecondary educational 
                        institution, or collaborative of such entities;
                            (ii) in a State with a State entity 
                        recognized by the Secretary of Labor to 
                        register apprenticeship programs in that State, 
                        that entity;
                            (iii) an industry or business, consisting 
                        of an employer, a group of employers, a trade 
                        association, a professional association, or an 
                        entity that sponsors a registered 
                        apprenticeship program;
                            (iv) a State workforce development board or 
                        local workforce development board; and
                            (v) to the maximum extent practicable--
                                    (I) a labor organization associated 
                                with the industry or occupation related 
                                to the pre-apprenticeship program 
                                involved; and
                                    (II) a community-based organization 
                                that provides pre-apprenticeship 
                                programs, as appropriate.
            (3) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a grant from 
        the Secretary under this subsection, an entity shall submit an 
        application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
        including--
                    (A) a description of the training and curriculum 
                described in section 3(9)(C)(i), and how the proposed 
                pre-apprenticeship program makes individuals who 
                successfully complete the pre-apprenticeship program 
                qualified to enter into an established registered 
                apprenticeship program;
                    (B) evidence that there are or will be sufficient 
                openings available in the registered apprenticeship 
                program referenced in (A) to enable the registered 
                apprenticeship program sponsor to place into a 
                corresponding registered apprenticeship those 
                individuals who successfully complete the pre-
                apprenticeship program;
                    (C) information about the entity that demonstrates 
                the existence of an active, advisory partnership 
                between the partners described in paragraph (2)(C) and 
                the capacity, of a training and education provider in 
                the entity, to provide the training and education 
                services necessary for a pre-apprenticeship program; 
                and
                    (D) information about the proposed pre-
                apprenticeship program that demonstrates--
                            (i) that the program is in an in-demand 
                        industry or occupation in the region in which 
                        the project is located;
                            (ii) the use of integrated work-based and 
                        academic learning that may include training in 
                        the workplace;
                            (iii) the inclusion of career exploration 
                        focused activities, such as job shadowing, 
                        career information activities, and resume 
                        preparation, in the program;
                            (iv) if the entity carrying out the project 
                        includes a high school, that the model to be 
                        used for the program leads to a high school 
                        diploma for participants without such a 
                        diploma;
                            (v) how the pre-apprenticeship program is 
                        aligned with and leverages resources of career 
                        and technical education programs, programs and 
                        services authorized under the Workforce 
                        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3101 
                        et seq.), or activities of entities that 
                        provide supportive services for participants in 
                        pre-apprenticeship programs; and
                            (vi) that the project aligns with an 
                        established registered apprenticeship program, 
                        including that the model used for the program 
                        leads to the attainment of skills and 
                        competencies necessary for entrance into the 
                        registered apprenticeship program for 
                        participants.
            (4) Use of funds.--
                    (A) In general.--An eligible entity that receives a 
                grant under this subsection shall use the grant funds 
                to carry out a project that implements a pre-
                apprenticeship program.
                    (B) Required activities.--The eligible entity shall 
                use the grant funds--
                            (i) to pay for the cost of training or 
                        education associated with the pre-
                        apprenticeship program;
                            (ii) for curriculum development that aligns 
                        with the requirements of the appropriate 
                        registered apprenticeship programs and learning 
                        assessments;
                            (iii) to maintain a connection between the 
                        pre-apprenticeship program and registered 
                        apprenticeship program;
                            (iv) for assessments of potential 
                        participants for, and enrollment of the 
                        participants in, the pre-apprenticeship 
                        program; and
                            (v) to conduct evaluations described in 
                        paragraph (6)(B).
                    (C) Allowable activities.--The eligible entity may 
                use the grant funds for--
                            (i) teacher training, including providing 
                        externship opportunities for teachers to learn 
                        about the skill needs of the industry or 
                        occupation that the pre-apprenticeship program 
                        focuses on;
                            (ii) stipends for participants during work-
                        based training in the program; or
                            (iii) coordination of activities under this 
                        subsection with activities carried out under 
                        the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical 
                        Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et seq.) 
                        or the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act 
                        (29 U.S.C. 3101 et seq.).
            (5) Federal share.--
                    (A) In general.--The Federal share of the cost 
                described in paragraph (2)(A) shall be not more than 75 
                percent.
                    (B) Non-federal share.--The eligible entity may 
                contribute the non-Federal share of the cost in cash or 
                in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, 
                or services.
            (6) Performance.--
                    (A) Measures.--The Secretary shall identify a set 
                of common measures that, at a minimum, include measures 
                of entry into a registered apprenticeship program and 
                that are aligned with performance accountability 
                measures described in section 116(c) of the Workforce 
                Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3141(c)) for 
                the local workforce development area (meaning a local 
                area, as defined in section 3 of that Act) and with 
                corresponding measures under the Carl D. Perkins Career 
                and Technical Education Act of 2006 (20 U.S.C. 2301 et 
                seq.), as appropriate.
                    (B) Evaluations.--Each eligible entity that 
                receives a grant to carry out a project under this 
                subsection shall arrange for another qualified entity 
                to conduct an evaluation, or shall participate in a 
                Department of Labor sponsored evaluation, of the 
                project using the identified common measures, and 
                shall, to the extent practicable, cooperate with the 
                evaluator in any evaluations of activities carried out 
                under this section.
                    (C) Extensions.--The Secretary shall use the 
                results of an evaluation for a project to determine 
                whether to extend the grant period, or renew a grant, 
                for the project under paragraph (2)(B).
    (c) Promoting Awareness of Registered Apprenticeship Programs.--
            (1) In general.--To promote awareness about registered 
        apprenticeship programs, the Secretary, in cooperation with the 
        Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Commerce, shall 
        ensure that timely, current information about the value of 
        registered apprenticeship programs in the labor market is made 
        available through a range of widely accessible formats and 
        venues. The information shall be made available to businesses, 
        trade associations, professional associations, students, 
        parents, workers, educational institutions, workforce and 
        economic development organizations, and State and local elected 
        officials.
            (2) Information for state and local workforce development 
        boards.--To promote awareness about registered apprenticeship 
        programs within the workforce development system, the Secretary 
        shall disseminate information on the value of registered 
        apprenticeship programs, to State and local workforce 
        development boards described in subsection (b)(2)(C)(iv), which 
        information shall include--
                    (A) a list of registered apprenticeship programs in 
                the State involved;
                    (B) guidance for training staff of the workforce 
                development system within the State on the value of 
                registered apprenticeship programs, including relevant 
                placement, retention and earnings information, as a 
                training option for participants;
                    (C) guidance on how individual training accounts 
                under section 134(c)(3) of the Workforce Innovation and 
                Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3174(c)(3)) could be used by 
                participants for a registered apprenticeship program; 
                and
                    (D) guidance on how performance accountability 
                measures under section 116 of the Workforce Innovation 
                and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3141) apply to 
                participants in registered apprenticeship programs, 
                including relevant placement, retention and earnings 
                information.
            (3) Information for employers, trade associations, 
        professional associations, industry groups and labor 
        organizations.--To promote awareness about registered 
        apprenticeship programs to workers and employers, the 
        Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall 
        provide information about the value of registered 
        apprenticeship programs, including relevant placement, 
        retention and earnings information, through the one-stop 
        delivery systems described in section 121 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3151), to employers, 
        trade associations, professional associations, industry groups, 
        and labor organizations, which information shall include, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) a list of registered apprenticeship programs in 
                the State;
                    (B) information on how to develop a registered 
                apprenticeship program; and
                    (C) information on financial resources available to 
                assist with the establishment and implementation of 
                registered apprenticeship programs.
            (4) Information for students and schools.--To promote 
        awareness about registered apprenticeship programs among 
        students and school staff, the Secretary, in cooperation with 
        the Secretary of Education, shall disseminate information on 
        the value of registered apprenticeship programs, including 
        relevant placement, retention and earnings information, to high 
        schools, area career and technical education schools (as 
        defined in subsection (b)(2)(C)(i)), 2- and 4-year 
        postsecondary educational institutions, and educational service 
        agencies, to enable, at a minimum--
                    (A) parents to understand registered apprenticeship 
                programs and their value in postsecondary education and 
                career pathways;
                    (B) students to understand registered 
                apprenticeship programs and their value in career 
                pathways;
                    (C) career and academic counselors to understand 
                registered apprenticeship programs as a valuable 
                postsecondary education option for students leading to 
                job placement in in-demand industries and occupations; 
                and
                    (D) school administrators, workforce and economic 
                development coordinators, and teachers and faculty to 
                assist with the development, implementation, and 
                continuation of registered apprenticeship programs.
    (d) Secretary's National Advisory Committee on Apprenticeships.--
            (1) Establishment.--
                    (A) In general.--There is established in the 
                Department of Labor a National Advisory Committee on 
                Apprenticeships, referred to in this section as the 
                ``Advisory Committee''.
                    (B) Composition.--The Advisory Committee shall 
                have--
                            (i) 20 voting members appointed by the 
                        Secretary, composed of--
                                    (I) 10 representatives of employers 
                                who participate in a registered 
                                apprenticeship program;
                                    (II) 6 representatives of labor 
                                organizations who have responsibility 
                                for the administration of a registered 
                                apprenticeship program sponsored by a 
                                joint labor-management partnership; and
                                    (III) 4 representatives of State 
                                apprenticeship agencies (or 
                                representatives of Governors), 
                                community organizations with 
                                significant experience with a 
                                registered apprenticeship program, area 
                                career and technical schools (as 
                                defined in subsection (b)(2)(C)(i)), 
                                local educational agencies, and 2- or 
                                4-year postsecondary educational 
                                institutions with at least 1 
                                articulation agreement with the entity 
                                administering a registered 
                                apprenticeship program; and
                            (ii) members who are ex officio nonvoting 
                        representatives from the Departments of Labor, 
                        Commerce, Education, Energy, Housing and Urban 
                        Development, Transportation, Veterans Affairs, 
                        and Health and Human Services.
                    (C) Qualifications.--The members shall be selected 
                upon the basis of their experience, competence, 
                innovation, and demonstrated performance concerning 
                registered apprenticeships.
                    (D) Terms.--The Secretary shall appoint the voting 
                members for terms of 4 years.
            (2) Chairperson.--The Secretary shall designate one of the 
        members of the Advisory Committee to serve as Chairperson of 
        the Advisory Committee.
            (3) Meetings.--The Advisory Committee shall hold not fewer 
        than 2 meetings during each calendar year. All meetings of the 
        Advisory Committee shall be open to the public. A transcript 
        shall be kept of each meeting and made available for public 
        inspection.
            (4) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall, at a minimum--
                    (A) advise, consult with, and make recommendations 
                to the Secretary on matters relating to the 
                administration of this title and the Act of August 16, 
                1937 (commonly known as the ``National Apprenticeship 
                Act''; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663; 29 U.S.C. 50 et 
                seq.);
                    (B) annually prepare a set of recommendations to 
                the Administrator and the Secretary to streamline the 
                registration process, to make the process easily 
                accessible and efficient for use by sponsors, while 
                maintaining high standards; and
                    (C) every 2 years, disseminate a collection of best 
                practices for engaging youth and underemployed 
                individuals in pre-apprenticeship programs and 
                registered apprenticeship programs.
            (5) Personnel.--
                    (A) Procurement.--
                            (i) In general.--The Chairperson of the 
                        Advisory Committee may procure the temporary 
                        and intermittent services of voting members of 
                        the Advisory Committee under section 3109(b) of 
                        title 5, United States Code, at rates for 
                        individuals that do not exceed the daily 
                        equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay 
                        prescribed for level V of the Executive 
                        Schedule under section 5316 of such title.
                            (ii) Officers or employees of the united 
                        states.--All members of the Advisory Committee 
                        who are officers or employees of the United 
                        States shall serve without compensation in 
                        addition to that received for their services as 
                        officers or employees of the United States.
                    (B) Staff.--The Secretary shall supply the 
                Committee with an executive secretary and provide such 
                secretarial, clerical, and other services as the 
                Secretary determines to be necessary to enable the 
                Advisory Committee to conduct its business.
            (6) Permanent committee.--Section 14 of the Federal 
        Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
        Advisory Committee.
    (e) Evaluations and Research.--
            (1) Evaluations of programs and activities carried out 
        under this title.--For the purpose of improving the management 
        and effectiveness of the programs and activities carried out 
        under this title, the Secretary shall provide for the 
        continuing evaluation, by an independent entity, of the 
        programs and activities, including activities carried out under 
        subsection (a)(3)(C). Such evaluations shall address--
                    (A) the general effectiveness of such programs and 
                activities in relation to their cost, including the 
                extent to which the programs and activities--
                            (i) improve the skill and employment 
                        competencies of participants in comparison to 
                        comparably situated individuals who did not 
                        participate in such programs and activities; 
                        and
                            (ii) to the extent feasible, increase the 
                        level of total employment and recognized 
                        postsecondary credential attainment over the 
                        level that would have existed in the absence of 
                        such programs and activities;
                    (B) the impact of the programs and activities for 
                the participants, sponsors, and employers;
                    (C) the return on investment of Federal, State, 
                local, sponsor, employer, and other funding for 
                registered apprenticeships to capture the full level of 
                investment in, and impact of, registered 
                apprenticeships;
                    (D) the longitudinal outcomes for participants in 
                the programs and activities; and
                    (E) the impact of specific policies on the general 
                effectiveness of such programs and activities.
            (2) Research.--The Secretary may conduct, through an 
        independent entity, research on best practices in registered 
        apprenticeship programs and pre-apprenticeship programs and 
        other issues relating to such programs.
            (3) Techniques.--Evaluations and research conducted under 
        this subsection shall utilize appropriate methodology and 
        research designs.
            (4) Reports.--The independent entity carrying out the 
        evaluations described in paragraph (1) or research described in 
        paragraph (2) shall prepare and submit to the Secretary a final 
        report containing the results of the evaluations or research, 
        respectively, and including policy recommendations. The final 
        report shall be made available for public inspection. Not later 
        than 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall produce a final report related to the return on 
        investment described in paragraph (1)(C).
            (5) Reports to congress.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        completion of all the final reports described in paragraph (4), 
        the Secretary shall transmit the final reports to the Committee 
        on Education and the Workforce of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of 
        the Senate.
            (6) Public access.--The Secretary shall develop a mechanism 
        to make research developed under this title publicly available 
        in a timely manner.
    (f) Reservation.--The Secretary shall reserve not less than 10 
percent of the funds appropriated under subsection (g) for each fiscal 
year for grants to States. A State that receives such a grant shall use 
the grant funds for the purpose of assisting the Administrator in 
carrying out the activities under this section, and may use the grant 
funds to support the voluntary establishment of a State apprenticeship 
office, if no such office exists in the State.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $75,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 
and each subsequent year.

SEC. 102. PROMOTING INTEGRATION WITH POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Collaborative.--The term ``Collaborative'' means the 
        Registered Apprenticeship-College Collaborative established 
        under subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Secretaries.--The term ``Secretaries'' means the 
        Secretary of Labor, acting through the Administrator, working 
        jointly with the Secretary of Education, acting through the 
        Assistant Secretary for the Office of Career, Technical, and 
        Adult Education.
    (b) Collaborative With 2- and 4-Year Postsecondary Educational 
Institutions.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretaries shall establish and 
        maintain a voluntary Registered Apprenticeship-College 
        Collaborative. The Collaborative shall consist of the sponsors 
        carrying out registered apprenticeship programs, 2- or 4-year 
        postsecondary educational institutions, and organizations that 
        represent such programs or institutions, that agree to meet 
        certain criteria in order to support the purposes described in 
        paragraph (2).
            (2) Purposes.--The Collaborative shall support the purposes 
        of--
                    (A) promoting stronger connections between the 
                registered apprenticeship programs involved and 
                participating 2- and 4-year postsecondary educational 
                institutions;
                    (B) promoting the translation of experience in a 
                registered apprenticeship program to academic credit at 
                participating 2- and 4-year postsecondary educational 
                institutions;
                    (C) facilitating the enrollment of an individual 
                who has completed a registered apprenticeship program 
                (referred to in this section as an ``apprentice'') at a 
                participating 2- or 4-year postsecondary educational 
                institution for the purpose of attaining academic 
                credit toward an associate's or more advanced degree;
                    (D) advancing the attainment of associate's and 
                more advanced degrees by apprentices;
                    (E) promoting the attainment of recognized 
                postsecondary credentials with value in the labor 
                market; and
                    (F) expanding awareness about the value of 
                registered apprenticeship programs as a postsecondary 
                education option.
            (3) Participant requirements.--The Secretaries shall 
        establish criteria that any interested 2- or 4-year 
        postsecondary educational institution or sponsor shall meet in 
        order to participate in the Collaborative, which criteria shall 
        include, at a minimum--
                    (A) for a 2- or 4-year postsecondary educational 
                institution--
                            (i) agreement to recognize and accept the 
                        academic credit (as assessed under subparagraph 
                        (B)(i)) earned by an apprentice for, and the 
                        assessment of the apprentice's learning in, a 
                        registered apprenticeship program at another 
                        participating institution;
                            (ii) agreement to have a formal 
                        articulation agreement with a participating 
                        sponsor of a registered apprenticeship program, 
                        other than a 2- or 4-year postsecondary 
                        educational institution; and
                            (iii) agreement to provide certain 
                        information, as determined by the Secretaries, 
                        to the Collaborative; and
                    (B) for a sponsor--
                            (i) agreement to participate in third-party 
                        evaluations of the quality and rigor of the 
                        program offerings in order to determine the 
                        value of academic credit for learning during a 
                        registered apprenticeship program;
                            (ii) agreement to have a formal 
                        articulation agreement with a participating 2- 
                        or 4-year postsecondary educational 
                        institution; and
                            (iii) agreement to provide certain 
                        information, as determined by the Secretaries, 
                        to the Collaborative.
            (4) Memorandum of understanding.--
                    (A) In general.--In order to participate in the 
                Collaborative, interested 2- or 4-year postsecondary 
                educational institutions and sponsors shall agree to 
                meet certain conditions determined by the Secretaries.
                    (B) Conditions.--Such conditions shall address, at 
                a minimum--
                            (i) how learning during a registered 
                        apprenticeship program, including related 
                        instruction and on-the-job training, will be 
                        assessed for academic credit;
                            (ii) how programs and procedures, 
                        especially those related to admissions, credit 
                        transfer, and recognition of such learning will 
                        be structured to support accessibility for 
                        apprentices;
                            (iii) how the structure and scheduling of 
                        courses will be developed in a way that 
                        supports the matriculation of apprentices; and
                            (iv) how residency requirements will 
                        support the transferability of credit earned by 
                        apprentices.
            (5) Publicly available information.--The Secretaries shall 
        maintain a publicly accessible website identifying, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) the participating members of the Collaborative 
                in each State;
                    (B) a model for articulation agreements, and copies 
                of some exemplary articulation agreements for 
                illustrative purposes; and
                    (C) such other information as the Secretaries 
                determine to be necessary to promote awareness of the 
                Collaborative and its members.
            (6) Use of funds.--
                    (A) Administrative.--The Secretaries shall use 30 
                percent of the funds appropriated under subsection (c) 
                to establish and maintain the Collaborative and the 
                website referred to in paragraph (5), to support the 
                Advisory Committee referred to in paragraph (6), and 
                for technical assistance, evaluation, and research 
                activities.
                    (B) For program participants.--The Secretaries 
                shall use 70 percent of the appropriated funds to carry 
                out, directly or by grant or contract with an eligible 
                entity, activities consisting of--
                            (i) providing funding to Collaborative 
                        participants to support the development of 
                        articulation agreements with other 
                        Collaborative participants;
                            (ii) providing funding to the Collaborative 
                        to support the assessment of learning during a 
                        registered apprenticeship program, for academic 
                        credit;
                            (iii) providing funding to the 
                        Collaborative to support third-party 
                        evaluations of the quality and rigor of program 
                        offerings, referred to in paragraph (3)(B)(i), 
                        which evaluations shall be conducted by an 
                        entity that meets minimum criteria as 
                        established by the Secretaries;
                            (iv) providing curriculum development, for 
                        participating institutions and sponsors; and
                            (v) carrying out other purposes that will 
                        help participating 2- and 4-year postsecondary 
                        educational institutions and sponsors meet the 
                        requirements of paragraphs (3) and (4).
                    (C) Eligible entities.--To be eligible to receive a 
                grant or contract under subparagraph (B), an entity 
                shall be a partnership comprised of--
                            (i) at least one 2- or 4-year postsecondary 
                        educational institution participating in the 
                        Collaborative; and
                            (ii) at least 1 sponsor of a registered 
                        apprenticeship program participating in the 
                        Collaborative.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 
and each subsequent year.

             TITLE II--PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT AND ENHANCEMENT

SEC. 201. EXPANDING REGISTERED APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall provide payments of assistance 
for eligible sponsors of new (as of the date of submission of an 
application under subsection (b)) registered apprenticeship programs, 
or for eligible sponsors of existing registered apprenticeship programs 
that add employers as new (as of such date) partners, which may include 
joint labor-management registered apprenticeship programs.
    (b) Applications.--To be eligible to receive payments under this 
section for a registered apprenticeship program, a sponsor shall submit 
an application to the Secretary including information demonstrating 
that (as of the date of submission)--
            (1)(A) for a new registered apprenticeship program, the 
        program received recognition as a registered apprenticeship 
        program within the 36 months preceding that date; or
            (B) for an existing registered apprenticeship program 
        (which may include joint labor-management registered 
        apprenticeship programs), employers were added as new partners 
        within the 36 months preceding that date;
            (2) the sponsor offered jobs that led to economic self-
        sufficiency, as determined by a local workforce development 
        board located in the same local workforce development area 
        (meaning a local area, as defined in section 3 of the Workforce 
        Innovation and Opportunity Act (29 U.S.C. 3102));
            (3) the sponsor has demonstrated success in enrolling, 
        instructing, advancing, and graduating individuals in the 
        relevant registered apprenticeship program, and in the 
        employment of such individuals after completion of the program; 
        and
            (4) the sponsor had not received a payment under subsection 
        (d) for that registered apprenticeship program.
    (c) Use of Funds.--In providing assistance under this section, the 
Secretary shall arrange to provide payments as described in subsection 
(a) for eligible sponsors, as funds are available under this section. 
Funds made available through such a payment shall be used to reimburse 
an eligible sponsor for the allowable costs of establishing or 
expanding the registered apprenticeship program involved. The maximum 
total payment to any one sponsor may not exceed $25,000 or 50 percent 
of the allowable costs.
    (d) Disbursement.--The Secretary shall enter into arrangements with 
State workforce development boards to make disbursements through the 
local workforce development boards described in subsection (b)(2) to 
provide the payments to the eligible sponsors.
    (e) Evaluations.--Sponsors receiving grants under this section 
shall, to the extent practicable, cooperate with the Secretary in the 
conduct of evaluations of the activities carried out under this 
section.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 and 
        each subsequent year.
            (2) Reservation.--The Secretary may reserve 5 percent of 
        the amount appropriated under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year 
        for distribution to the State workforce development boards and 
        local workforce development boards, to pay for the costs of the 
        boards associated with making determinations under subsection 
        (b)(2) and disbursements under subsection (d), and as funds 
        remain available, other costs of administration and management, 
        technical assistance, research, and evaluation under this Act.
                                 <all>
