[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2119 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2119

   To provide for greater congressional oversight of Iran's nuclear 
                    program, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            October 1, 2015

  Mr. Cardin (for himself, Mr. Bennet, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Wyden, Mr. 
Coons, Mr. Schumer, Mr. Warner, Mr. Booker, and Mr. Schatz) introduced 
the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee 
                          on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
   To provide for greater congressional oversight of Iran's nuclear 
                    program, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Iran Policy 
Oversight Act of 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Statement of policy on deterrence.
Sec. 4. Regional strategy for countering conventional and asymmetric 
                            Iranian activity and threats in the Middle 
                            East and North Africa.
Sec. 5. Authorization of additional security assistance to Israel.
Sec. 6. Continuation in effect of sanctions with respect to Iranian 
                            entities and individuals engaged in 
                            ballistic or cruise missile proliferation, 
                            or terrorism.
Sec. 7. Continuation in effect of sanctions with respect to human 
                            rights abuses by Iran.
Sec. 8. Reports on Iranian use of funds received as part of sanctions 
                            relief under the Joint Comprehensive Plan 
                            of Action.
Sec. 9. Expedited consideration of new terrorism-related sanctions 
                            against Iran.
Sec. 10. Statements of policy.
Sec. 11. Reports on Iranian research and development and breakout 
                            times.
Sec. 12. Reporting on resolution of Iran's past military dimensions of 
                            Iran's nuclear program.
Sec. 13. Statement of policy on effective re-imposition of sanctions.
Sec. 14. United States coordinator for the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
                            Action.
Sec. 15. Unified policy on arms and ballistic and cruise missile sales 
                            to Iran.
Sec. 16. International Atomic Energy Agency.
Sec. 17. Definitions.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) On May 22, 2015, the President signed into law the Iran 
        Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015 (Public Law 114-17), a 
        bill that passed the United States Congress with broad 
        bipartisan support, continuing the robust role the Congress has 
        played in oversight of the United States policy of preventing 
        Iran from becoming a nuclear weapon state.
            (2) On July 14, 2015, the United States, France, Germany, 
        the United Kingdom, the People's Republic of China and the 
        Russian Federation, with the High Representative of the 
        European Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, and 
        Iran announced the completion of a Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
        Action (JCPOA), specifying steps to be taken by Iran related to 
        its nuclear program.

SEC. 3. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON DETERRENCE.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) that Iran does not have an inherent right to uranium 
        enrichment;
            (2) to deter Iran from destabilizing regional activity and 
        support for and acts of terrorism; and
            (3) that all of the options available to the United States, 
        including the military option, remain available to prevent Iran 
        from achieving a nuclear weapons capability.

SEC. 4. REGIONAL STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING CONVENTIONAL AND ASYMMETRIC 
              IRANIAN ACTIVITY AND THREATS IN THE MIDDLE EAST AND NORTH 
              AFRICA.

    Not later than January 10, 2016, and every two years thereafter, 
the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of the 
Treasury, and the Director of National Intelligence shall jointly 
develop and submit to the appropriate congressional committees an 
unclassified ten-year strategy (which may contain a classified annex) 
to counter conventional and asymmetric Iranian activities and threats 
in the Middle East, North Africa, and beyond. The strategy shall 
include at a minimum the following elements:
            (1) A summary of the near and long-term United States 
        objectives, plans, and means for building a regional security 
        architecture capable of and committed to countering Iran's 
        destabilizing activities.
            (2) A summary of United States objectives for individual 
        country capabilities and contributions to the regional security 
        architecture, including an estimated timeline for achieving 
        desired capabilities, for each member of the Gulf Cooperation 
        Council, Egypt, Jordan, Iraq, and Israel.
            (3) An assessment of Iran's grand strategy and objectives 
        for the Middle East region, and an assessment of anticipated 
        modifications to Iranian objectives, policies, and activities 
        for achieving the grand strategy.
            (4) An assessment of Iran's conventional force 
        capabilities, and an assessment of Iranian plans to upgrade its 
        conventional force capabilities, including its acquisition, 
        development, and deployment of ballistic and cruise missile 
        capabilities, unmanned aerial vehicles, and maritime offensive 
        and anti-access/area denial capabilities, at 5, 8, and 10 years 
        following the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (5) An assessment of Iran's chemical and biological weapons 
        capabilities, and an assessment of Iranian plans to upgrade its 
        chemical and biological weapons capabilities.
            (6) An assessment of Iran's asymmetric activities in the 
        region, including--
                    (A) the size, capabilities, and activities of the 
                Iranian Revolutionary Guard Corps, including the Quds 
                Force;
                    (B) the size, capabilities, and activities of 
                Iran's cyber operations;
                    (C) the types and amount of support, including 
                funding, lethal and non-lethal contributions, and 
                training, provided to Hezbollah, Hamas, special groups 
                in Iraq, the Bashar al-Assad regime in Syria, Houthi 
                fighters in Yemen, and other violent groups across the 
                Middle East;
                    (D) the scope and objectives of Iranian information 
                operations and use of propaganda; and
                    (E) an assessment of anticipated modifications by 
                Iran to the activities described in subparagraphs (A) 
                through (D) over the course of the next 10 to 15 years.
            (7) An assessment of Iran's strategy regarding other 
        countries in the region, including Syria, Lebanon, Iraq, Yemen, 
        the Palestinian territories, and the countries of the Gulf 
        Cooperation Council, and an assessment of any anticipated 
        modifications to objectives, policies, and activities for 
        achieving the grand strategy.
            (8) A description of current and planned activities, 
        engagements, exercises, military sales, training, intelligence 
        and surveillance support, and other forms of security 
        assistance and cooperation for United States partners and 
        allies in the region, in order to actively counter current 
        Iranian conventional and asymmetric threats described under 
        paragraphs (3) through (7), as well as to prepare for evolving 
        threats from Iran over the course of the Joint Comprehensive 
        Plan of Action, including an assessment of the impact of 
        activities described in paragraph (7) on Israel's qualitative 
        military edge.
            (9) An outline of United States authorities, planning, and 
        actions, unilaterally and in cooperation with foreign 
        governments, to counter threats from Iran's conventional force 
        capabilities described under paragraph (4).
            (10) An outline, including specific examples, of United 
        States authorities, planning, and actions, unilaterally and in 
        cooperation with foreign governments, to counter Iran's threat 
        network described under subparagraphs (A) through (E) of 
        paragraph (6) and paragraph (7), including--
                    (A) interdiction of Iranian lethal arms bound for 
                groups designated as foreign terrorist organizations by 
                the United States under section 219 of the Immigration 
                and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189);
                    (B) interdiction of Iranian activities and 
                prevention of Iranian harassment or interference in 
                international commercial shipping lanes;
                    (C) countering Iranian attempts to undermine or 
                subvert internationally recognized governments in the 
                Middle East region; and
                    (D) countering Iran's support for the regime of 
                Bashar al-Assad in Syria, including--
                            (i) financial assistance, military 
                        equipment and personnel, and other support 
                        provided to that regime; and
                            (ii) support and direction to other armed 
                        actors that are not Syrian or Iranian and are 
                        acting on behalf of that regime.
            (11) A review of individual country contributions to the 
        regional security architecture.
            (12) A review of efforts to counter Iran's conventional and 
        asymmetric capabilities in the Middle East and North Africa.
            (13) An assessment of the commitment and capabilities of 
        United States allies and partners to countering Iran's 
        conventional and asymmetric capabilities in the Middle East and 
        North Africa.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO ISRAEL.

    (a) Security Assistance To Address Iranian Nuclear Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The President is authorized to take all 
        necessary and appropriate measures, including providing 
        offensive security assistance and applicable ordnance and 
        delivery systems, to enhance Israel's qualitative military 
        edge, effectively deter conventional and nuclear threats from 
        Iran, and counter non-peaceful nuclear activities by Iran.
            (2) Deployment.--Pursuant to consultations between the 
        Governments of Israel and the United States, the President may, 
        consistent with United States treaty obligations, transfer to 
        the Government of Israel, as appropriate, ordnance and delivery 
        systems under such terms and conditions as the President 
        determines necessary, pursuant to the authority of paragraph 
        (1). The President shall, as appropriate, ensure that Israeli 
        personnel have the opportunity and means to train with such 
        defense systems, including joint training exercises, consistent 
        with the requirements of this paragraph.
    (b) Foreign Military Financing.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that the Memorandum of 
        Understanding between the United States and Israel setting 
        annual foreign military financing levels for Israel is set to 
        conclude at the end of fiscal year 2018, and the terms of its 
        extension will be renegotiated over the 2015 through 2018 time 
        period.
            (2) Authorization.--The President is authorized to provide 
        any additional foreign military financing to Israel in each 
        fiscal year from fiscal year 2018 through fiscal year 2028 as 
        may be needed to address threats from Iran.
    (c) Requirement To Provide Assistance.--The President shall 
provide, as appropriate, assistance and cooperation to Israel to ensure 
Israel's qualitative military edge and effectively deter conventional 
and nuclear threats supported, directly or indirectly, by Iran.
    (d) United States-Israel Military and Intelligence Cooperation.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that the United States and 
        Israel have an established record of unprecedented military and 
        intelligence cooperation, most recently furthered by the United 
        States-Israel Strategic Partnership Act of 2014 (Public Law 
        113-296), which designated Israel as a major strategic partner 
        of the United States.
            (2) Authorization.--The President is authorized to 
        accelerate co-development and support Israeli development of 
        missile defense systems, and to engage in discussions to 
        bolster the effectiveness of Israel's conventional deterrent 
        and deepen intelligence cooperation.

SEC. 6. CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRANIAN 
              ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN BALLISTIC OR CRUISE 
              MISSILE PROLIFERATION, OR TERRORISM.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United 
States, in interpreting the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, that 
nothing in the JCPOA limits or curtails the ability of Congress to pass 
sanctions legislation to address future Iranian terrorism activities 
and ballistic and cruise missile activities.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control should be 
fully funded to ensure strict enforcement of sanctions against Iranian 
actors in the areas of ballistic or cruise missile proliferation and 
terrorism, and to ensure effective re-imposition of sanctions in the 
event of violation or breach by Iran of the JCPOA.
    (c) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8721 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 225. CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO IRANIAN 
              ENTITIES AND INDIVIDUALS ENGAGED IN BALLISTIC, CRUISE 
              MISSILE PROLIFERATION, OR TERRORISM.

    ``(a) Sanctions Relating to Blocking of Property.--United States 
sanctions applicable with respect to Iranian persons, unless designated 
by name in Attachments 3 or 4 to Annex II of the Joint Comprehensive 
Plan of Action, under Executive Order 13382 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
relating to blocking property of weapons of mass destruction 
proliferators and their supporters), or Executive Order 13224 (50 
U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to blocking property and prohibiting 
transactions with persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support 
terrorism), as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of 
this section, shall remain in effect until the President makes public 
the notification described in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Notification Described.--The notification described in this 
subsection is one that provides a justification in writing for removing 
sanctions applicable to an Iranian person sanctioned pursuant to 
Executive Order 13382 or 13224 and is submitted in a timely manner.
    ``(c) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 
2010 (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.), or any other provision of law.
    ``(d) Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action Defined.--In this section, 
the term `Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action' means the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, by Iran 
and by France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the People's Republic 
of China, the United Kingdom, and the United States, and all 
implementing materials and agreements related to the Joint 
Comprehensive Plan of Action.''.
    (d) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 224 the following new item:

``Sec. 225. Continuation in effect of sanctions with respect to Iranian 
                            entities and individuals engaged in 
                            ballistic or cruise missile 
                            proliferation.''.

SEC. 7. CONTINUATION IN EFFECT OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO HUMAN 
              RIGHTS ABUSES BY IRAN.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United 
States, in interpreting the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, that 
nothing in the JCPOA limits or curtails the ability of Congress to pass 
sanctions legislation to address future Iranian human rights abuses.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Department of the Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control should be 
fully funded to ensure strict enforcement of sanctions against Iranian 
actors that commit human rights abuses, and to ensure effective re-
imposition of sanctions in the event of violation or breach by Iran of 
the JCPOA.
    (c) Sanctions Relating to Abuses of Human Rights.--United States 
sanctions applicable with respect to persons, unless designated by name 
in Attachments 3 or 4 of Annex II of the JCPOA, under Executive Order 
13553, Executive Order 13606, or sections 2 or 3 of Executive Order 
13628, as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this 
section, shall remain in effect until the President makes public the 
notification described in subsection (d).
    (d) Notification Described.--The notification described in this 
subsection is one that provides a justification in writing for removing 
sanctions applicable to an Iranian person sanctioned pursuant to 
Executive Order 13553, Executive Order 13606, or section 2 or 3 of 
Executive Order 13628, and is submitted in a timely manner.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit the authority of the President pursuant to the 
International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 
2010 (22 U.S.C. 8501 et seq.), or any other provision of law.

SEC. 8. REPORTS ON IRANIAN USE OF FUNDS RECEIVED AS PART OF SANCTIONS 
              RELIEF UNDER THE JOINT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF ACTION.

    Not later than January 10, 2016, and every 180 days thereafter, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees--
            (1) a description of--
                    (A) the monetary value of direct and indirect 
                sanctions relief received by Iran;
                    (B) increases in funding for the IRGC and its Quds 
                Force; and
                    (C) changes in funding for regional activities and 
                support for terrorist organizations, including 
                Hezbollah, Hamas, and the regime of Bashar al-Assad; 
                and
            (2) a determination on whether persons, including foreign 
        financial institutions, providing financial support or 
        assistance to any entity described in subparagraphs (B) and (C) 
        of paragraph (1) are subject to United States economic 
        sanctions.

SEC. 9. EXPEDITED CONSIDERATION OF NEW TERRORISM-RELATED SANCTIONS 
              AGAINST IRAN.

    (a) Determination.--If the President determines that the Government 
of Iran has directed or conducted an act of international terrorism 
against the United States or that the Government of Iran has 
substantially increased its operational or financial support for a 
terrorist organization that threatens the interests or allies of the 
United States, the President shall immediately notify Congress.
    (b) Qualifying Legislation Defined.--For purposes of this section, 
the term ``qualifying legislation'' means only a bill of either House 
of Congress that authorizes or requires the President to impose 
sanctions on persons the President determines--
            (1) commit acts of international terrorism, at the 
        direction of an official of the Government of Iran, that 
        threaten the security of nationals of the United States or the 
        national security, foreign policy, or economy of the United 
        States; or
            (2) knowingly assist in, sponsor, or provide financial, 
        material, or technological support for, or financial or other 
        services to or in support of--
                    (A) acts described in paragraph (1); or
                    (B) foreign terrorist organizations that receive 
                financial or other material support from the Government 
                of Iran.
    (c) Introduction.--During the 60-calendar day period after the 
President notifies Congress of a determination under subsection (a), 
qualifying legislation may be introduced--
            (1) in the House of Representatives, by the Majority Leader 
        or the Minority Leader; and
            (2) in the Senate, by the Majority Leader (or the Majority 
        leader's designee) or the Minority Leader (or the Minority 
        Leader's designee).
    (d) Floor Consideration in House of Representatives.--
            (1) Reporting and discharge.--If a committee of the House 
        to which qualifying legislation has been referred has not 
        reported such qualifying legislation within 10 legislative days 
        after the date of referral, that committee shall be discharged 
        from further consideration thereof.
            (2) Proceeding to consideration.--Beginning on the third 
        legislative day after each committee to which qualifying 
        legislation has been referred reports it to the House or has 
        been discharged from further consideration thereof, it shall be 
        in order to move to proceed to consider the qualifying 
        legislation in the House. All points of order against the 
        motion are waived. Such a motion shall not be in order after 
        the House has disposed of a motion to proceed on the qualifying 
        legislation with regard to the same agreement. The previous 
        question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its 
        adoption without intervening motion. The motion shall not be 
        debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion 
        is disposed of shall not be in order.
            (3) Consideration.--The qualifying legislation shall be 
        considered as read. All points of order against the qualifying 
        legislation and against its consideration are waived. The 
        previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
        qualifying legislation to final passage without intervening 
        motion except two hours of debate equally divided and 
        controlled by the sponsor of the qualifying legislation (or a 
        designee) and an opponent. A motion to reconsider the vote on 
        passage of the qualifying legislation shall not be in order.
    (e) Consideration in the Senate.--
            (1) Committee referral.--Qualifying legislation introduced 
        in the Senate shall be referred to the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations.
            (2) Reporting and discharge.--If the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations has not reported such qualifying legislation within 
        10 session days after the date of referral of such legislation, 
        that committee shall be discharged from further consideration 
        of such legislation and the qualifying legislation shall be 
        placed on the appropriate calendar.
            (3) Proceeding to consideration.--Notwithstanding Rule XXII 
        of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any time 
        after the committee authorized to consider qualifying 
        legislation reports it to the Senate or has been discharged 
        from its consideration (even though a previous motion to the 
        same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the 
        consideration of qualifying legislation, and all points of 
        order against qualifying legislation (and against consideration 
        of the qualifying legislation) are waived. The motion to 
        proceed is not debatable and shall be subject to a 60-vote 
        affirmative threshold for adoption. The motion is not subject 
        to a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by 
        which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in 
        order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the 
        qualifying legislation is agreed to, the qualifying legislation 
        shall remain the unfinished business until disposed of.
            (4) Debate.--Debate on qualifying legislation, and on all 
        debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be 
        limited to not more than 10 hours, which shall be divided 
        equally between the Majority and Minority Leaders or their 
        designees. A motion to further limit debate is in order and not 
        debatable. An amendment to, or a motion to postpone, or a 
        motion to proceed to the consideration of other business, or a 
        motion to recommit the qualifying legislation is not in order.
            (5) Vote on passage.--The vote on passage shall occur 
        immediately following the conclusion of the debate on the 
        qualifying legislation and a single quorum call at the 
        conclusion of the debate, if requested in accordance with the 
        rules of the Senate.
            (6) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals from the 
        decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules 
        of the Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to 
        qualifying legislation shall be decided without debate.
            (7) Consideration of veto messages.--Debate in the Senate 
        of any veto message with respect to qualifying legislation, 
        including all debatable motions and appeals in connection with 
        such qualifying legislation, shall be limited to 10 hours, to 
        be equally divided between, and controlled by, the majority 
        leader and the Minority Leader or their designees.
    (f) Rules Relating to Senate and House of Representatives.--
            (1) Coordination with action by other house.--If, before 
        the passage by one House of qualifying legislation of that 
        House, that House receives qualifying legislation from the 
        other House, then the following procedures shall apply:
                    (A) The qualifying legislation of the other House 
                shall not be referred to a committee.
                    (B) With respect to qualifying legislation of the 
                House receiving the legislation--
                            (i) the procedure in that House shall be 
                        the same as if no qualifying legislation had 
                        been received from the other House; but
                            (ii) the vote on passage shall be on the 
                        qualifying legislation of the other House.
            (2) Treatment of a bill of other house.--If one House fails 
        to introduce qualifying legislation under this section, the 
        qualifying legislation of the other House shall be entitled to 
        expedited floor procedures under this section.
            (3) Treatment of companion measures.--If, following passage 
        of the qualifying legislation in the Senate, the Senate then 
        receives a companion measure from the House of Representatives, 
        the companion measure shall not be debatable.
            (4) Application to revenue measures.--The provisions of 
        this subsection shall not apply in the House of Representatives 
        to qualifying legislation which is a revenue measure.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Foreign terrorist organization.--The term ``foreign 
        terrorist organization'' means an organization designated as a 
        foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
            (2) Knowingly.--The term ``knowingly'' has the meaning 
        given that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
        (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).

SEC. 10. STATEMENTS OF POLICY.

    It shall be the policy of the United States, in interpreting the 
Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and any other related 
agreement, that--
            (1) no sanctions relief for Iran is to be provided pursuant 
        to the JCPOA until Iran completes all activities as set forth 
        in paragraphs 2, 4, 5, and 6 of the Roadmap for Clarification 
        of Past and Present Outstanding Issues regarding Iran's Nuclear 
        Program, signed at Vienna July 14, 2015, between the 
        International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and Iran, and the 
        completion of such activities is verified by the IAEA in a 
        regular update by the Director General of the IAEA;
            (2) any action by the Government of Iran to treat the 
        legitimate imposition of sanctions by the United States or its 
        international partners based on support for terrorism, abuses 
        of human rights, or Iran's ballistic or cruise missile 
        activities as grounds to cease performing on its commitments 
        under the JCPOA in whole or in part would not be valid and 
        would be inconsistent with the terms of the JCPOA; and
            (3) in the event that sanctions on Iran are re-imposed 
        consistent with the JCPOA, such sanctions would not 
        retroactively apply to activities, including activities under 
        contractual arrangements, legitimately entered into prior to 
        the re-imposition of sanctions, but sanctions may apply to 
        activities, including activities under contractual arrangements 
        entered into prior to the re-imposition of sanctions, to the 
        extent such activities continue beyond the date of the re-
        imposition of sanctions.

SEC. 11. REPORTS ON IRANIAN RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT AND BREAKOUT 
              TIMES.

    Section 135(d) of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Report on iranian research and development and 
        breakout times.--Not later than January 10, 2016, and every 180 
        days thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees and leadership a report detailing--
                    ``(A) any research and development conducted by 
                Iran that is not in compliance with the JCPOA or that 
                may substantially reduce the time for Iran to acquire a 
                nuclear weapon;
                    ``(B) an assessment of the period of time it would 
                take Iran to acquire the nuclear material to produce 
                one nuclear weapon; and
                    ``(C) an assessment of the capacity and capability 
                of the IAEA to effectively implement the verification 
                regime required by the JCPOA, including whether the 
                IAEA is receiving sufficient access to investigate 
                suspicious sites or allegations of covert nuclear-
                related activities and whether it has the required 
                funding, manpower, and authorities to undertake the 
                verification regime required by the JCPOA.''.

SEC. 12. REPORTING ON RESOLUTION OF IRAN'S PAST MILITARY DIMENSIONS OF 
              IRAN'S NUCLEAR PROGRAM.

    Not later than 30 calendar days after the IAEA submits its final 
assessment on the resolution on all past and present outstanding issues 
related to Iran's nuclear program to the Board of Governors, the 
President shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and 
leadership a detailed report on the IAEA's report to the Board of 
Governors, and shall provide to the appropriate congressional 
committees and leadership a briefing, in a classified setting as 
necessary, on how outstanding issues were resolved by the IAEA.

SEC. 13. STATEMENT OF POLICY ON EFFECTIVE RE-IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS.

    (a) Finding.--There is a wide range of national and multilateral 
tools, including the re-imposition of sanctions, available to the 
United States and United States partners, including European allies, 
should Iran fail to meet its JCPOA commitments.
    (b) Statements of Policy.--
            (1) The United States is prepared to enforce any violation 
        of the JCPOA.
            (2) The United States should continue to ensure that a 
        range of national and multilateral tools remain available to 
        respond to non-performance by Iran of its JCPOA commitments.
            (3) The United States will continue to leverage the 
        commitments of its European allies to join in re-imposing 
        sanctions in a calibrated manner as appropriate in the event 
        Iran violates the JCPOA incrementally.

SEC. 14. UNITED STATES COORDINATOR FOR THE JOINT COMPREHENSIVE PLAN OF 
              ACTION.

    (a) Designation.--The President shall designate within the 
Department of State a special coordinator for implementation of and 
compliance with the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action regarding the 
Iran's nuclear program (in this section referred to as the 
``Coordinator'').
    (b) Status.--The role of the Coordinator should be filled by an 
official of the Department of State appointed by and serving at the 
pleasure of the President.
    (c) Duties.--The Coordinator shall carry out the following duties:
            (1) Coordinate all activities related to implementation of 
        the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, including--
                    (A) activities of the United States Government 
                necessary for implementation of the Joint Comprehensive 
                Plan of Action;
                    (B) activities of the United States Government to 
                monitor all elements of the implementation of the JCPOA 
                by Iran and track all incidences of noncompliance with 
                the JCPOA; and
                    (C) with the Secretary of Energy, activities of the 
                United States Government with respect to the JCPOA that 
                involve the International Atomic Energy Agency and 
                other nongovernmental or multilateral organizations, as 
                appropriate.
            (2) Coordinate with the Department of the Treasury and 
        other agencies as appropriate--
                    (A) to ensure the continued comprehensive 
                investigation and designation of persons providing 
                support for, or otherwise facilitating, the ability of 
                the Government of Iran--
                            (i) to acquire, develop, or engage in the 
                        proliferation of ballistic missiles or cruise 
                        missiles;
                            (ii) to support, directly or indirectly, 
                        acts of international terrorism; or
                            (iii) to commit human rights abuses; and
                    (B) to assess and report on the use by the 
                Government of Iran of funds made available through 
                sanctions relief.
    (d) Consultations.--The Coordinator shall consult with Congress, 
domestic and international nongovernmental organizations, and 
multilateral organizations and institutions as the Coordinator 
considers appropriate to fulfill the purposes of this section.

SEC. 15. UNIFIED POLICY ON ARMS AND BALLISTIC AND CRUISE MISSILE SALES 
              TO IRAN.

    It is the sense of Congress that Iran should continue to be 
prohibited from undertaking any activity related to ballistic or cruise 
missiles capable of delivering nuclear weapons, including launches 
using ballistic or cruise missile technology, and United Nations member 
states should take all necessary measures to prevent the transfer of 
technology or technical assistance to Iran related to such activities.

SEC. 16. INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) must have sufficient funding, 
manpower, and authority to undertake its verification responsibilities 
related to the JCPOA or any other related agreement, and the President 
should engage with international partners to ensure that the IAEA 
receives the full additional $10,600,000 per year necessary to fulfill 
its verification responsibilities under the JCPOA or any other related 
agreement.
    (b) Report.--Not later than January 10, 2016, and every 180 days 
thereafter, the President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report outlining efforts with international partners to 
achieve the goal in subsection (a) and identifying impediments to 
achieving the goal.
    (c) Authorization.--There are authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal years 2016 through 2026 such sums as may be necessary to meet 
the United States annual funding commitments to the IAEA as well as the 
United States portion of additional funds needed for the IAEA to 
fulfill its verification responsibilities under the JCPOA or any other 
related agreement.

SEC. 17. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, and 
                the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Financial Services, and the Permanent Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
                Representatives.
            (2) Appropriate congressional committees and leadership.--
        The term ``appropriate congressional committees and 
        leadership'' means the appropriate congressional committees, 
        the Majority and Minority Leaders of the Senate, and the 
        Speaker, Majority Leader, and Minority Leader of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (3) Joint comprehensive plan of action.--The term ``Joint 
        Comprehensive Plan of Action'' means the Joint Comprehensive 
        Plan of Action signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, by Iran and 
        by France, Germany, the Russian Federation, the People's 
        Republic of China, the United Kingdom, and the United States, 
        and all implementing materials and agreements related to the 
        Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action.
            (4) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' means the intelligence community specified in or 
        designated under section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 
        1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
                                 <all>
