[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 797 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 797

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 23, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider the conference report to accompany the bill (H.R. 2577) making 
appropriations for the Departments of Transportation, and Housing and Urban 
Development, and related agencies for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2016, 
and for other purposes. All points of order against the conference report and 
against its consideration are waived. The conference report shall be considered 
as read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the conference 
report to its adoption without intervening motion. During consideration of the 
conference report, the second sentence of clause 1(a) of rule XIX shall not 
apply.
    Sec. 2.  It shall be in order without intervention of any point of order to 
consider concurrent resolutions providing for adjournment during the month of 
July, 2016.
    Sec. 3.  On any legislative day during the period from June 23, 2016, 
through July 4, 2016--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 4.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 3 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
    Sec. 5.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of June 23, 
2016, or June 24, 2016, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House 
suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The Speaker or his 
designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee on the 
designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
    Sec. 6.  Upon adoption of the conference report specified in the first 
section of this resolution, House Concurrent Resolution 139 shall be considered 
as adopted.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
