[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 54 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.Con.Res.54
                                         Agreed to June 11, 2015        

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring),

SECTION 1. POCKET VERSION OF THE UNITED STATES CONSTITUTION.

    (a) In General.--The 25th edition of the pocket version of the 
United States Constitution shall be reprinted as a House document under 
the direction of the Joint Committee on Printing.
    (b) Additional Copies.--In addition to the usual number, there 
shall be printed the lesser of--
        (1) 285,400 copies of the document, of which 235,400 copies 
    shall be for the use of the House of Representatives and 50,000 
    copies shall be for the use of the Senate; or
        (2) such number of copies of the document as does not exceed a 
    total production and printing cost of $135,312, with distribution 
    to be allocated in the same proportion as described in paragraph 
    (1), except that in no case shall the number of copies be less than 
    1 per Member of Congress.
    (c) Distribution.--The copies of the document reprinted for the use 
of the House and the Senate under subsection (a) shall be distributed 
in accordance with--
        (1) a distribution plan approved by the chair and ranking 
    minority member of the Committee on House Administration of the 
    House of Representatives, in the case of the copies printed for the 
    use of the House; and
        (2) a distribution plan approved by the chair and ranking 
    minority member of the Committee on Rules and Administration of the 
    Senate, in the case of the copies printed for the use of the 
    Senate.
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.

Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
