[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5718 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5718

To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to acquire and to convey certain 
      lands or interests in lands in Utah, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 11, 2016

 Mr. Chaffetz (for himself, Mr. Stewart, and Mrs. Love) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To direct the Secretary of Agriculture to acquire and to convey certain 
      lands or interests in lands in Utah, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Central Wasatch 
National Conservation and Recreation Area Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Central Wasatch National Conservation and Recreation Area.
Sec. 4. Wilderness.
Sec. 5. White Pine Special Management Area.
Sec. 6. General provisions.
Sec. 7. Land ownership.
Sec. 8. Maps and legal descriptions.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this Act:
            (1) Conservation and recreation area.--The term 
        ``Conservation and Recreation Area'' means the Central Wasatch 
        National Conservation and Recreation Area established by 
        section 3(a).
            (2) Forest plan.--The term ``forest plan'' means the 
        Revised Forest Plan: Wasatch-Cache National Forest, dated 
        February 2003, as amended.
            (3) Management plan.--The term ``management plan'' means 
        the management plan for the Central Wasatch National 
        Conservation and Recreation Area developed under section 3(c).
            (4) Conservation and recreation area map.--The term 
        ``Conservation and Recreation Area map'' means the map entitled 
        ``Proposed Central Wasatch National Conservation and Recreation 
        Area Map'' and dated ___.
            (5) Mountain accord.--The term ``Mountain Accord'' means 
        the Mountain Accord agreement dated July 13, 2015.
            (6) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah.

SEC. 3. CENTRAL WASATCH NATIONAL CONSERVATION AND RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to valid existing rights, there is 
        established the Central Wasatch National Conservation and 
        Recreation Area in the State.
            (2) Area included.--The Conservation and Recreation Area 
        shall be comprised of approximately 79,109 acres of Federal 
        land in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest as generally depicted 
        on the Conservation and Recreation Area map as ``Central 
        Wasatch National Conservation and Recreation Area''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Conservation and Recreation Area 
are to--
            (1) conserve and protect the ecological, natural, scenic, 
        wilderness (within wilderness areas), cultural, historical, 
        geological, and wildlife values within the Conservation and 
        Recreation Area;
            (2) protect, enhance, and restore the water quality and 
        watershed resources in the Conservation and Recreation Area;
            (3) facilitate a balanced, year-round recreation system 
        with a wide variety of opportunities for residents and 
        visitors; and
            (4) facilitate and accommodate improved access to the 
        Conservation and Recreation Area for a growing number of users.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act and in accordance with this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall develop a comprehensive plan for the long-
        term management of the Conservation and Recreation Area.
            (2) Consultation.--In developing the management plan 
        required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consult 
        with--
                    (A) appropriate State, tribal, and local 
                governmental entities; and
                    (B) the public.
            (3) Incorporation of plans.--In developing the management 
        plan required under paragraph (1), to the extent consistent 
        with this Act, the Secretary may incorporate any provision of--
                    (A) the forest plan;
                    (B) Mountain Accord; and
                    (C) local plans.
            (4) Management plan guidelines.--The Management Plan 
        shall--
                    (A) conserve, protect, and enhance the resources of 
                the Conservation and Recreation Area;
                    (B) ensure protection of water quality and 
                watershed resources;
                    (C) ensure protection of environmentally sensitive 
                areas, including evaluating these areas for special 
                designations such as Albion Basin Special Botanical 
                Area;
                    (D) not allow ski area permit boundary expansion on 
                Federal land beyond what is described in section 
                6(a)(10) and as depicted on the Conservation and 
                Recreation Area map;
                    (E) provide for adaptive management of resources 
                and restoration of damaged resources;
                    (F) promote public safety, including avalanche 
                control;
                    (G) facilitate year-round, outdoor recreation;
                    (H) not allow lifts or people movers for the 
                purpose of skiing outside of ski area permit boundaries 
                as depicted on the map or outside the transportation 
                corridors established in section 6(a)(8)(B); and
                    (I) provide access to the Conservation and 
                Recreation Area for residents, visitors, and 
                businesses.
    (d) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the 
        Conservation and Recreation Area--
                    (A) consistent with the management plan; and
                    (B) in accordance with--
                            (i) the laws (including regulations) and 
                        rules applicable to the National Forest System; 
                        and
                            (ii) this Act.
            (2) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow uses of the 
        Conservation and Recreation Area that the Secretary determines 
        would further the purposes described in subsection (b).
            (3) Permitted and licensed activities.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this Act affects 
                existing permits or licensed activities authorized as 
                of the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Process.--Nothing in this Act affects the 
                process by which activities authorized by permit or 
                license as of the date of enactment of this Act may be 
                authorized or reauthorized.
    (e) Effect.--
            (1) In general.--The establishment of the Conservation and 
        Recreation Area shall not change the management status of any 
        area within the boundary of the Conservation and Recreation 
        Area that is--
                    (A) a wilderness area;
                    (B) the White Pine Special Management Area; or
                    (C) ski area special use permit for Alta, Brighton, 
                Snowbird, and Solitude.
            (2) Conflict of laws.--If there is a conflict between the 
        laws applicable to the areas described in paragraph (1) and 
        this subtitle, the more restrictive provisions shall control.

SEC. 4. WILDERNESS.

    (a) Mount Olympus Wilderness Boundary Adjustment.--Section 102(a) 
of the Utah Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-428; 98 Stat. 1658; 
16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended in paragraph (3), as generally depicted 
on the Conservation and Recreation Area map, by--
            (1) striking ``sixteen thousand acres'' and inserting 
        ``fifteen thousand eight hundred and eighty-three acres''; and
            (2) striking ``, dated August 1984'' and inserting ``and 
        dated ___''.
    (b) Twin Peaks Wilderness Boundary Adjustment.--Section 102(a) of 
the Utah Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-428; 98 Stat. 1658; 16 
U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended in paragraph (4), as generally depicted on 
the Conservation and Recreation Area map, by--
            (1) striking ``thirteen thousand one hundred acres'' and 
        inserting ``thirteen thousand and ninety-eight acres''; and
            (2) striking ``, dated June 1984'' and inserting ``and 
        dated ___''.
    (c) Lone Peak Wilderness Addition and Boundary Adjustment.--Section 
2(i) of the Endangered American Wilderness Act of 1978 (Public Law 95-
237; 92 Stat. 42; 16 U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended, as generally 
depicted on the Conservation and Recreation Area map, by--
            (1) striking ``twenty-nine thousand five hundred and sixty-
        seven acres'' and inserting ``thirty-two thousand one hundred 
        and thirty acres''; and
            (2) inserting ``and dated __'' after ``on a map entitled 
        `Lone Peak Wilderness--Proposed'''.
    (d) Grandeur Peak-Mount Aire Wilderness.--Section 102(a) of the 
Utah Wilderness Act of 1984 (Public Law 98-428; 98 Stat. 1657; 16 
U.S.C. 1132 note) is amended by--
            (1) striking ``and'' from the end of paragraph (11);
            (2) striking the period at the end of paragraph (12) and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) adding at the end the following: ``(13) certain land in 
        the Uinta-Wasatch-Cache National Forest comprising 
        approximately 6,158 acres, as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled `Proposed Central Wasatch National Conservation and 
        Recreation Area Map' and dated ___, which shall be known as the 
        Grandeur Peak-Mount Aire Wilderness.''.

SEC. 5. WHITE PINE SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Designation.--Subject to valid existing rights, certain Federal 
land in the Wasatch-Cache National Forest comprising approximately 
1,800 acres, as generally depicted on the Conservation and Recreation 
Area map, is designated the White Pine Special Management Area 
(referred to in this section as the ``special management area'').
    (b) Management.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage the special 
        management area established by subsection (a) to maintain the 
        natural state of the special management area.
            (2) Mechanized or motorized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B) and the landing of helicopters, the use of 
                motorized and mechanized vehicles is prohibited in the 
                special management area.
                    (B) Exception.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) 
                prevents the Secretary from--
                            (i) authorizing the use of motorized 
                        vehicles and equipment for administrative 
                        purposes; or
                            (ii) responding to an emergency.
            (3) Structures and facilities.--New, permanent structures 
        and facilities are prohibited within the special management 
        area.
            (4) Timber harvesting.--Timber harvesting is prohibited 
        within the special management area.

SEC. 6. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) General Provisions.--For Federal lands within the Conservation 
and Recreation Area the following general provisions shall apply, 
consistent with section 3(e):
            (1) Adjacent management.--
                    (A) In general.--The designation of the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area shall not create a 
                protective perimeter or buffer zone around the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area.
                    (B) Activities outside conservation and recreation 
                area.--The fact that an activity or use on land outside 
                the Conservation and Recreation Area can be seen or 
                heard from areas within the Conservation and Recreation 
                Area shall not preclude the activity or use outside the 
                boundary of the Conservation and Recreation Area.
            (2) Non-federal land.--
                    (A) No effect on non-federal land or interests in 
                non-federal land.--Nothing in this Act affects 
                ownership, management, use, improvement, or other 
                rights relating to non-Federal land or interests in 
                non-Federal land.
                    (B) Access.--Nothing in this Act modifies any laws 
                or regulations that require or allow the Secretary to 
                provide the owners of private property within the 
                boundary of the Conservation and Recreation Area access 
                to their property.
            (3) Motorized and mechanized vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (C), the use of motorized and mechanized vehicles in 
                the Conservation and Recreation Area shall be permitted 
                only on roads, trails, and areas designated for use by 
                such vehicles by the management plan.
                    (B) New or temporary roads.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (C), paragraph (2)(B), and paragraph (8), 
                no new or temporary roads shall be constructed within 
                the Conservation and Recreation Area.
                    (C) Exception.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) or (B) 
                prevents the Secretary from--
                            (i) authorizing roads or the use of 
                        motorized vehicles for administrative purposes; 
                        or
                            (ii) responding to an emergency.
            (4) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        Federal land located in the Conservation and Recreation Area is 
        withdrawn from--
                    (A) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal 
                under the public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patenting under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) disposition under the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.
            (5) Acquisition of land.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
                interests in land within the boundary of the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area only through exchange, 
                donation, or purchase from a willing seller. The 
                Secretary may not acquire any land by condemnation.
                    (B) Incorporation of acquired land and interests.--
                Any land or interest in land that is located in the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area that is acquired by 
                the United States shall--
                            (i) become part of the Conservation and 
                        Recreation Area;
                            (ii) be managed in accordance with--
                                    (I) the management plan;
                                    (II) the laws and rules applicable 
                                to the National Forest System; and
                                    (III) this Act; and
                            (iii) be withdrawn according to paragraph 
                        (4) on the date of acquisition of the land.
            (6) Vegetation management.--Nothing in this Act prohibits 
        the Secretary from conducting vegetation management projects 
        within the Conservation and Recreation Area--
                    (A) subject to--
                            (i) such reasonable regulations, policies, 
                        and practices as the Secretary determines 
                        appropriate; and
                            (ii) all applicable laws (including 
                        regulations); and
                    (B) in a manner consistent with the purposes 
                described in section 3(b).
            (7) Wildland fire.--Nothing in this section prohibits the 
        Secretary, in cooperation with other Federal, State, and local 
        agencies, as appropriate, from conducting wildland fire 
        operations in the Conservation and Recreation Area, including 
        but not limited to operations using aircraft or mechanized 
        equipment.
            (8) Transportation.--
                    (A) In general.--This paragraph provides for future 
                transportation infrastructure, including but not 
                limited to roadway improvements, public transportation, 
                bus stops, stations, and public amenities, such as 
                restrooms, trails, trailheads, bike lanes, and 
                pedestrian infrastructure, within the Conservation and 
                Recreation Area that are in accordance with--
                            (i) the management plan;
                            (ii) all applicable laws; and
                            (iii) the purposes described in section 
                        3(b) of this Act.
                    (B) Corridors.--Transportation corridors are 
                reserved consistent with 23 CFR 774(11)(i) and 49 
                U.S.C. 5323(q) within the easements, rights-of-way, and 
                areas of established use (including cut and fill 
                slopes) on Little Cottonwood Canyon Road (State Road 
                210) and Big Cottonwood Canyon Road (State Road 190).
                            (i) Adjustments.--Adjustments to the 
                        corridors may be made through a public 
                        engagement process in accordance with the 
                        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) if applicable and 
                        consistent with the purposes described in 
                        section 3(b).
                            (ii) Existing section 4(f) properties.--
                        Section 4(f) (23 U.S.C. 138 and 49 U.S.C. 303) 
                        shall only apply to existing properties within 
                        the corridors that would have been determined 
                        to be section 4(f) properties before the 
                        enactment of this Act.
                    (C) Federal action.--To the extent future 
                transportation infrastructure requires Federal action, 
                the Secretary of Agriculture and the Secretary of 
                Transportation shall coordinate and give priority to 
                actions in the Conservation and Recreation Area when 
                fulfilling their obligations under the National 
                Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
                seq.).
                    (D) Utah department of transportation.--Nothing in 
                this Act is intended to--
                            (i) limit the Utah Department of 
                        Transportation from providing avalanche 
                        control, maintenance, and safety improvement 
                        activities on current and future transportation 
                        facilities;
                            (ii) diminish or otherwise affect any 
                        easement, right-of-way (including those 
                        established by historic use or construction), 
                        or other property rights held by or for the 
                        benefit of the Utah Department of 
                        Transportation;
                            (iii) add to the Utah Department of 
                        Transportation's permitting process for 
                        maintenance or improvement of any existing 
                        transportation facilities; or
                            (iv) affect existing or future 
                        appropriations authorized by 23 U.S.C. 107(d), 
                        204(f), and 317.
            (9) Avalanche control.--The Secretary shall allow access 
        and avalanche control devices, excluding ski lifts, to be 
        installed and maintained within or adjacent to the Conservation 
        and Recreation Area to protect public health and property and 
        in accordance with the management plan.
            (10) Ski area permit boundaries.--Ski area permit boundary 
        expansion is precluded on Federal land within the Conservation 
        and Recreation Area beyond what is described below and as 
        depicted on the Conservation and Recreation Area map.
                    (A) Permanent boundaries.--Resort Area Permit 
                Boundaries on Federal land within the Conservation and 
                Recreation Area as depicted on the Conservation and 
                Recreation Area as ``Resort Area Boundary, Permanent'' 
                map shall be permanent as of the date of enactment of 
                this Act.
                    (B) Brighton.--If a realignment of the Brighton 
                Resort Area Permit Boundary is proposed within the 
                ``Resort Boundary Adjustment Area'' as depicted on the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area map, the proposed 
                realignment is subject to the permitting process as of 
                the date of enactment of this Act. After completion of 
                the full permitting process and permit approval by the 
                U.S. Forest Service, the Brighton Resort Area Boundary 
                shall be permanent.
                    (C) Solitude.--If a realignment of the Solitude 
                Resort Area Permit Boundary is proposed within the 
                Solitude ``Resort Boundary Adjustment Area'' as 
                depicted on the Conservation and Recreation Area map, 
                the proposed realignment is subject to the permitting 
                process as of the date of enactment of this Act. After 
                completion of the full permitting process and permit 
                approval by the U.S. Forest Service, the Resort Area 
                Boundary shall be permanent.
                    (D) Alta.--
                            (i) If a realignment of the Alta Resort 
                        Area Permit Boundary is proposed on the 
                        ``Resort Area Boundary, Subject to Permitting 
                        Process'' as depicted on the Conservation and 
                        Recreation Area map, the proposed realignment 
                        is subject to the permitting process as of the 
                        date of enactment of this Act. After completion 
                        of the full permitting process and permit 
                        approval by the U.S. Forest Service, the Alta 
                        Resort Area Boundary shall be permanent. The 
                        Secretary may restrict resort skier access 
                        beyond the realigned Alta Resort Area Boundary.
                            (ii) If the Alta Ski Lifts Company conveys 
                        the non-Federal land to the United States in 
                        exchange for the Federal land as described in 
                        section 7 of this Act and as identified on the 
                        map entitled ``Preliminary Conceptual Map for 
                        Proposed Land Exchange between The U.S. Forest 
                        Service and certain Utah Ski Areas'', the Alta 
                        Resort Area Boundary as of the date the land 
                        exchange is completed shall be permanent and 
                        any future Alta Resort Area Boundary 
                        realignment shall be precluded. The land 
                        exchange may be completed in multiple phases.
            (11) Facilities.--
                    (A) Definition.--In this subsection, the term 
                ``facility'' means authorized facilities, such as water 
                resource, water treatment, flood control, utility, 
                pipeline, or telecommunications facilities.
                    (B) Existing facilities.--Nothing in this section 
                affects the operation or maintenance of an existing 
                facility located within the Conservation and Recreation 
                Area.
                    (C) Expansion and new facilities.--Nothing in this 
                section prohibits the Secretary from authorizing the 
                expansion of an existing facility or the construction 
                of a new facility within the Conservation and 
                Recreation Area subject to--
                            (i) the management plan;
                            (ii) all applicable laws; and
                            (iii) in a manner consistent with the 
                        purposes described in section 3(b).
            (12) Water rights.--
                    (A) Definition.--In this subsection, the term 
                ``water resource facility'' means irrigation and 
                pumping facilities, reservoirs, water conservation 
                works, aqueducts, canals, ditches, pipelines, wells, 
                hydropower projects, transmission, and other facilities 
                ancillary thereto, and other water diversion, storage, 
                and carriage structures.
                    (B) Effect of act.--Nothing in this Act--
                            (i) shall constitute either an express or 
                        implied reservation by the United States of any 
                        water or water rights with respect to the 
                        Conservation and Recreation Area;
                            (ii) affect any water rights in the State 
                        existing on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        including any water rights held by the United 
                        States; or
                            (iii) establish a precedent with regard to 
                        any future Conservation and Recreation Area 
                        designations.
                    (C) Utah water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
                procedural and substantive requirements of State law to 
                obtain and hold any water rights not in existence on 
                the date of the enactment of this Act with respect to 
                the Conservation and Recreation Area.
                    (D) Existing water infrastructure.--Nothing in this 
                Act shall be construed to limit motorized access and 
                road maintenance by local municipalities, water 
                districts, or utilities for those maintenance 
                activities necessary to guarantee the continued 
                viability of water resource facilities that currently 
                exist or which may be necessary in the future to 
                prevent the degradation of the water supply in the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area designated by this 
                Act.
            (13) Fish and wildlife.--Nothing in this Act affects the 
        jurisdiction of the State with respect to fish and wildlife.

SEC. 7. LAND OWNERSHIP.

    (a) In General.--This section provides for the potential exchange 
of specific National Forest System land for specific non-Federal land.
    (b) Land Exchange.--
            (1) Definitions.--In this subsection--
                    (A) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                the National Forest System land identified as ``Federal 
                Land To Be Evaluated for Private Ownership'' on the map 
                entitled ``Preliminary Conceptual Map for Proposed Land 
                Exchange between The U.S. Forest Service and certain 
                Utah Ski Areas''.
                    (B) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal 
                land'' means the private land listed below.
                            (i) Private land owned by Snowbird Ski and 
                        Summer Resort identified as ``Private Land To 
                        be Evaluated for Public Ownership - From 
                        Snowbird'' on the map entitled ``Preliminary 
                        Conceptual Map for Proposed Land Exchange 
                        between The U.S. Forest Service and certain 
                        Utah Ski Areas''.
                            (ii) Private land owned by Alta Ski Lifts 
                        Company identified as ``Private Land To be 
                        Evaluated for Public Ownership - From Alta'' on 
                        the map entitled ``Preliminary Conceptual Map 
                        for Proposed Land Exchange between The U.S. 
                        Forest Service and certain Utah Ski Areas''.
                            (iii) Private land owned by Brighton 
                        Mountain Resort identified as ``Private Land To 
                        be Evaluated for Public Ownership - From 
                        Brighton'' on the map entitled ``Preliminary 
                        Conceptual Map for Proposed Land Exchange 
                        between The U.S. Forest Service and certain 
                        Utah Ski Areas''.
                            (iv) Private land owned by Solitude 
                        Mountain Resort identified as ``Private Land To 
                        be Evaluated for Public Ownership - From 
                        Solitude'' on the map entitled ``Preliminary 
                        Conceptual Map for Proposed Land Exchange 
                        between The U.S. Forest Service and certain 
                        Utah Ski Areas''.
                    (C) Ski resorts.--The term ``ski resorts'' means 
                Snowbird Ski and Summer Resort, Alta Ski Lifts Company, 
                Brighton Mountain Resort, and Solitude Mountain Resort, 
                respectively.
            (2) Map; legal description.--
                    (A) Adjustments.--The Secretary and the ski resorts 
                may, by mutual agreement, correct minor or 
                typographical errors in any maps, acreage estimate, or 
                description of any land to be exchanged under this Act.
                    (B) Map availability.--The maps depicting the 
                Federal and non-Federal lands to be exchanged under 
                this Act shall be available for public inspection in 
                the Office of the Supervisor, Wasatch-Cache National 
                Forest and Office of the Regional Forester, 
                Intermountain Region.
            (3) Conveyance of land.--Subject to the provisions of this 
        subsection, if the ski resorts offer to convey to the United 
        States all right, title, and interest of the ski resorts in and 
        to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall evaluate the non-
        Federal lands and Federal lands and initiate a public 
        engagement process. Pending the public engagement process, the 
        Secretary shall convey to the ski resorts all right, title, and 
        interest of the United States in and to the Federal land, 
        subject to valid existing rights and these will be reiterated 
        in the conveyance deed.
            (4) Conditions on acceptance.--
                    (A) Title.--As a condition of the land exchange 
                under this subsection, title to the non-Federal land to 
                be acquired by the Secretary under this subsection 
                shall be acceptable to the Secretary based on 
                Department of Justice Title Standards.
                    (B) Terms and conditions.--The conveyance of the 
                Federal land and non-Federal land shall be subject to--
                            (i) all applicable laws, including the 
                        National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 
                        U.S.C. 4321 et seq.) and section 206 of the 
                        Federal Land Policy Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                        1716); and
                            (ii) such terms and conditions as the 
                        Secretary may require.
                    (C) Public engagement process.--As part of the 
                public engagement process, existing private and public 
                access to and uses of the land involved in the exchange 
                shall be evaluated.
                    (D) Alta exchange.--If Alta Ski Lifts Company 
                offers to convey non-Federal land to the United States 
                in exchange for Federal land within the Town of Alta 
                under this section, the exchange shall be accompanied 
                by a commitment from Alta Ski Lifts Company to work 
                with the Town of Alta, existing base area property 
                owners, and the public to maintain access to public 
                lands for ski area use, trails, business operations, 
                parking, and other existing private uses, even if the 
                resort and transit facilities are reconfigured.
            (5) Appraisals.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the 
                ski resorts shall select an appraiser to conduct an 
                appraisal of the Federal land and non-Federal land.
                    (B) Requirements.--An appraisal under subparagraph 
                (A) shall be conducted in accordance with nationally 
                recognized appraisal standards, including--
                            (i) the Uniform Appraisal Standards for 
                        Federal Land Acquisitions; and
                            (ii) the Uniform Standards of Professional 
                        Appraisal Practice.
                    (C) Costs.--The responsibility for the costs of 
                appraisal and any associated administrative costs of 
                appraisal conducted under subparagraph (B) for purposes 
                of carrying out the land exchange shall be covered by 
                the ski resorts.
            (6) Surveys and title work.--
                    (A) In general.--As soon as practicable after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary and the 
                ski resorts shall select surveyors to conduct surveys 
                of the Federal land and non-Federal land.
                    (B) Requirements.--The exact acreage and legal 
                description of the Federal land and non-Federal land 
                shall be determined by boundary surveys of the lands to 
                be exchanged. The boundaries will be surveyed and 
                monumented as required by the Secretary.
                    (C) Costs.--The responsibility for the costs of any 
                surveys conducted under subparagraph (A), any title 
                work including but not limited to any abstracts, title 
                reports, escrow or closing fees, deed preparation, 
                preparation of NEPA documents, and any other 
                administrative costs of carrying out the land exchange, 
                shall be covered by the ski resorts.
            (7) Valuation and equalization.--
                    (A) In general.--The value of the Federal land and 
                non-Federal land to be exchanged under this 
                subsection--
                            (i) shall be equal, as determined by 
                        appraisals conducted in accordance with 
                        paragraph (5); or
                            (ii) if not equal, may be equalized by a 
                        cash equalization payment in the manner 
                        provided in section 206(b) of the Federal Land 
                        Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
                        1716(b)); or
                            (iii) if not equal, the acreage of the 
                        Federal land or the non-Federal land may be 
                        reduced to achieve equalization, as 
                        appropriate.
            (8) Disposition of proceeds.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall deposit in the 
                fund established under Public Law 90-171 (commonly 
                known as the Sisk Act; 16 U.S.C. 484a) any amount 
                received by the Secretary as the result of any cash 
                equalization payment made under paragraph (6)(A)(ii).
                    (B) Use of proceeds.--Amounts deposited under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be available to the Secretary, 
                without further appropriation and until expended, for 
                the acquisition of lands and interests in lands in the 
                Conservation and Recreation Area.
            (9) Revocation of orders; withdrawal.--
                    (A) Revocation of orders.--Any public order 
                withdrawing the Federal land from entry, appropriation, 
                or disposal under the public land laws is revoked to 
                the extent necessary to permit the conveyance of the 
                Federal land to the ski resorts.
                    (B) Withdrawal.--On the date of enactment of this 
                Act, if not already withdrawn or segregated from entry 
                and appropriation under the public land laws (including 
                the mining and mineral leasing laws) and the Geothermal 
                Steam Act of 1970 (30 U.S.C. 1001 et seq.), the Federal 
                land is withdrawn until the date of the conveyance of 
                the Federal land to the ski resorts.
            (10) Hazardous materials.--
                    (A) In general.--In any conveyance of land under 
                this Act, the Secretary shall meet disclosure 
                requirements for hazardous substances, pollutants, or 
                contaminants, but shall otherwise not be required to 
                remediate or abate such substances. Furthermore, any 
                party described in paragraph (1)(C), which acquires 
                property conveyed under this Act must agree to 
                indemnify and hold harmless the United States for any 
                costs associated with remediating or abating any 
                hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants 
                located on, or being released from, the land conveyed 
                under this Act, and restore any injured or lost natural 
                resources.
                    (B) Environmental site assessment.--The Secretary 
                and, as a condition of the exchange, the State, shall 
                make available for review and inspection any record 
                relating to hazardous materials on the land to be 
                exchanged under this Act. Prior to the conveyance of 
                Federal or non-Federal lands, the ski resorts shall 
                conduct an Environmental Site Assessment of the lands 
                proposed for conveyance, that meets the requirements 
                set forth in ASTM E1527-13, for both land to be 
                conveyed to or from the United States, and provide such 
                reports to the Secretary.
                    (C) Costs.--The costs of any response action or 
                restoration of injured natural resource relating to 
                hazardous materials on land acquired under this Act 
                shall be paid by those entities listed in paragraph 
                (1)(C). No claim shall be made against the United 
                States by any party listed in paragraph (1)(C) for any 
                costs associated with the land conveyed under this Act.
                    (D) Federal parcels.--Notwithstanding 42 U.S.C. 
                9601 et seq., the Secretary is only required to comply 
                with the requirements set forth in 42 U.S.C. 
                9620(h)(1), but not otherwise required to comply with 
                any other provisions of 42 U.S.C. 9620(h) for land 
                conveyed to a party listed in paragraph (1)(C).
            (11) Deadline for completion of land exchange.--It is the 
        intent of Congress that the land exchange under this subsection 
        shall be completed not later than 36 months after the date the 
        proposal from the non-Federal party is accepted by the 
        Secretary.

SEC. 8. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--As soon as practicable after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map and legal description of 
the Conservation and Recreation Area, wilderness and wilderness 
additions, and White Pine Special Management Area.
    (b) Legal Effect.--The maps and legal descriptions prepared under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this section, except that the Secretary may correct minor or 
typographical errors in the map and legal description.
    (c) Availability of Map and Legal Description.--The maps and legal 
descriptions prepared under subsection (a) shall be on file and 
available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the 
Forest Service.
                                 <all>
