[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 819 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 819

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 12, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 4992) to codify regulations relating to 
transfers of funds involving Iran, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Financial Services; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 5119) to prohibit the obligation or expenditure of 
funds available to any Federal department or agency for any fiscal year to 
purchase or issue a license for the purchase of heavy water produced in Iran. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; and (2) one motion to 
recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 5631) to hold Iran accountable for its state 
sponsorship of terrorism and other threatening activities and for its human 
rights abuses, and for other purposes. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign 
Affairs; and (2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
