[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5780 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5780

 To provide greater conservation, recreation, economic development and 
   local management of Federal lands in Utah, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 14, 2016

   Mr. Bishop of Utah (for himself and Mr. Chaffetz) introduced the 
    following bill; which was referred to the Committee on Natural 
                               Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide greater conservation, recreation, economic development and 
   local management of Federal lands in Utah, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    The Act may be cited as the ``Utah Public Lands Initiative Act''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
                        DIVISION A--CONSERVATION

                          TITLE I--WILDERNESS

Sec. 101. Wilderness designations.
Sec. 102. Maps and legal descriptions.
Sec. 103. Wilderness administration.
Sec. 104. Water rights.
Sec. 105. Military overflights.
Sec. 106. Adjacent management.
Sec. 107. Indian rights.
Sec. 108. Acquisition of land and interests in land.
Sec. 109. Wilderness release.
Sec. 110. Airsheds.
                 TITLE II--NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREAS

Sec. 201. National Conservation Areas.
Sec. 202. Map and legal description.
Sec. 203. Administration of National Conservation Areas.
Sec. 204. General provisions.
Sec. 205. Additional purpose for Docs Valley, Stone Bridge Draw, Stuntz 
                            Draw, Beach Draw, and Diamond Mountain 
                            National Conservation Areas.
Sec. 206. Additional purpose for Colorado River National Conservation 
                            Area.
                 TITLE III--WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AREAS

Sec. 301. Watershed Management Areas.
Sec. 302. Administration of Watershed Management Areas.
Sec. 303. General provisions.
                   TITLE IV--SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS

Sec. 401. High Uintas Special Management Area.
Sec. 402. High Uintas Special Management Area map and legal 
                            description.
Sec. 403. Administration of the High Uintas Special Management Area.
Sec. 404. High Uintas Special Management Area general provisions.
Sec. 405. Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area.
Sec. 406. Administration of Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special 
                            Management Area.
Sec. 407. Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area general 
                            provisions.
Sec. 408. Desolation Canyon, Nine Mile Canyon, White River and Books 
                            Cliffs Sportsmen's Special Management 
                            Areas.
Sec. 409. Desolation Canyon, Nine Mile Canyon, White River and Books 
                            Cliffs Sportsmen's Special Management Area 
                            map and legal description.
Sec. 410. Administration of the Desolation Canyon, Nine Mile Canyon, 
                            and White River Special Management Areas.
Sec. 411. Desolation Canyon, Nine Mile Canyon, and White River Special 
                            Management Area general provisions.
Sec. 412. Book Cliffs Sportsmens Special Management Area additional 
                            provisions.
Sec. 413. Book Cliffs Sportsmen's Special Management Area Advisory 
                            Committee.
                TITLE V--ARCHES NATIONAL PARK EXPANSION

Sec. 501. Arches National Park expansion.
                  TITLE VI--JURASSIC NATIONAL MONUMENT

Sec. 601. Jurassic National Monument.
                   TITLE VII--WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS

Sec. 701. Wild and scenic rivers.
     TITLE VIII--ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL GEOLOGIC AND RECREATION AREA

Sec. 801. Ashley Karst National Geologic and Recreation Area.
Sec. 802. Map and legal description.
Sec. 803. Administration.
Sec. 804. General provisions.
    DIVISION B--INNOVATIVE LAND MANAGEMENT, RECREATION AND ECONOMIC 
                              DEVELOPMENT

               TITLE I--SCHOOL TRUST LAND CONSOLIDATIONS

Sec. 101. Findings and purpose.
Sec. 102. Definitions.
Sec. 103. Exchange of land; reservation of interests.
Sec. 104. Withdrawal of Federal lands prior to exchange.
Sec. 105. National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 and Federal Land 
                            Policy and Management Act of 1976 
                            compliance.
Sec. 106. Status and management of land after exchange.
Sec. 107. Book Cliffs Conservation Area.
                   TITLE II--GOBLIN VALLEY STATE PARK

Sec. 201. Land conveyance.
Sec. 202. Cooperative Management of Goblin Valley.
                  TITLE III--PRICE CANYON STATE FOREST

Sec. 301. Definitions.
Sec. 302. Exchange of land.
Sec. 303. Livestock grazing.
                   TITLE IV--DEER LODGE LAND EXCHANGE

Sec. 401. Definitions.
Sec. 402. Land exchange.
                    TITLE V--SCOFIELD LAND TRANSFER

Sec. 501. Short title.
Sec. 502. Definitions.
Sec. 503. Conveyance of Scofield Project Land.
                       TITLE VI--LAND CONVEYANCES

Sec. 601. Land conveyances.
                       TITLE VII--LAND DISPOSALS

Sec. 701. Land disposals.
                      TITLE VIII--RECREATION ZONES

Sec. 801. Establishment.
Sec. 802. Map and legal description.
Sec. 803. Goldbar Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 804. Monitor and Merrimac Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 805. Klondike Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 806. Big Flat Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 807. Mineral Canyon Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 808. Dee Pass and Utah Rims Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 809. Yellow Circle and Cameo Cliffs Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 810. Jensen Hills Recreation Zone additional provisions.
Sec. 811. Red Mountain Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 812. Devils Hole Recreation Zone management.
Sec. 813. Bourdette Draw Recreation Zone additional provisions.
Sec. 814. Red Wash Recreation Zone additional provisions.
Sec. 815. Hole-in-the-Rock Trail.
Sec. 816. Recapture Canyon.
Sec. 817. Big Burrito Non-Motorized Trail.
          TITLE IX--RED ROCK COUNTRY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE TRAIL

Sec. 901. Definitions.
Sec. 902. Designation.
Sec. 903. Management.
        TITLE X--LONG-TERM INDIAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CERTAINTY

Sec. 1001. Indian economic development in San Juan County, Utah.
Sec. 1002. Ute Indian Tribe Economic Development Area.
Sec. 1003. Water study for Uintah and Duchesne Counties.
        TITLE XI--LONG-TERM ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CERTAINTY IN UTAH

Sec. 1101. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 1102. Actions to expedite energy-related projects.
Sec. 1103. Permitting and regulatory programs.
Sec. 1104. Judicial review.
Sec. 1105. Completion of administrative land exchange process.
            TITLE XII--LONG-TERM TRAVEL MANAGEMENT CERTAINTY

Sec. 1201. Rights-of-way for certain roads.
Sec. 1202. Grand County Council recommendations for certain roads.
Sec. 1203. Uintah County road certainty.
                TITLE XIII--LONG-TERM GRAZING CERTAINTY

Sec. 1301. Current permitted use.
Sec. 1302. Bighorn sheep.
Sec. 1303. Protection of grazing lands.
                    DIVISION C--LOCAL PARTICIPATION

               TITLE I--LOCAL PARTICIPATION AND PLANNING

Sec. 101. Public Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation Advisory 
                            Committee.
            DIVISION D--BEAR EARS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

             TITLE I--BEARS EARS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

Sec. 101. Findings.
Sec. 102. Establishment.
Sec. 103. Map and legal description.
Sec. 104. Administration of Bear Ears National Conservation Area.
Sec. 105. General provisions.
Sec. 106. Cooperating agencies.
Sec. 107. Bears Ears Tribal Commission.
Sec. 108. Tribal employment.
Sec. 109. Tribal liaison.
Sec. 110. Bears Ears Advisory Committee.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        lands or interests in land under the jurisdiction of the 
        Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture, 
        except such term does not include land the title to which is 
        held in trust by the United States for the benefit of a tribe 
        or an individual or is held in fee by a tribe or individual 
        subject to a restriction by the United States against 
        alienation.
            (2) Tribe.--The term ``Tribe'' means a federally recognized 
        Indian tribe (including a pueblo).
            (3) Tribal.--The term ``Tribal'' means of or pertaining to 
        a tribe.
            (4) Water resource facilities.--The term ``water resource 
        facilities'' means irrigation and pumping facilities, 
        reservoirs, water conservation works, aqueducts, canals, 
        ditches, pipelines, wells, hydropower projects, transmission 
        and other ancillary facilities, and other water diversion, 
        storage, and carriage structures.

                        DIVISION A--CONSERVATION

                          TITLE I--WILDERNESS

SEC. 101. WILDERNESS DESIGNATIONS.

    In furtherance of the purposes of the Wilderness Act, and subject 
to valid existing rights, including the rights of a tribe, the 
following areas of the State of Utah are designated as wilderness and 
as components of the National Wilderness Preservation System pursuant 
to the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).
            (1) Candland mountain.--Certain Federal land in Emery 
        County managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 12,330 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Candland Mountain Wilderness''.
            (2) Desolation canyon.--Certain Federal land in Duchesne, 
        Uintah, Carbon, Emery, and Grand Counties managed by the Bureau 
        of Land Management comprising approximately 458,413 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 
        30, 2016, which shall be known as the ``Desolation Canyon 
        Wilderness''.
            (3) High uinta.--Certain Federal land in Duchesne, Summit, 
        and Uintah Counties, managed by the United States Forest 
        Service comprising approximately 28,293 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, 
        which shall be known as the ``High Uinta Wilderness''.
            (4) Mancos mesa.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County, 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park 
        Service comprising approximately 95,605 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, 
        which shall be known as the ``Mancos Mesa Wilderness''.
            (5) Cheesebox canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan 
        County managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 14,441 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Cheesebox Canyon Wilderness''.
            (6) Butler wash.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 27,813 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Butler Wash Wilderness''.
            (7) Dark canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 72,990 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Dark Canyon Wilderness''.
            (8) Behind the rocks.--Certain Federal land in San Juan and 
        Grand Counties managed by the Bureau of Land Management 
        comprising approximately 13,024 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``Behind the Rocks Wilderness''.
            (9) Bridger jack mesa.--Certain Federal land in San Juan 
        County managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 6,009 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Bridger Jack Mesa Wilderness''.
            (10) Cedar mesa.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 223,566 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Cedar Mesa Wilderness''.
            (11) Mikes canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management and the National Park 
        Service comprising approximately 30,549 acres, as generally 
        depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, 
        which shall be known as the ``Mikes Canyon Wilderness''.
            (12) Mule canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County, 
        Utah managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 5,858 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map and dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``Mule Canyon Wilderness''.
            (13) Marsh peak.--Certain Federal land in Uintah County 
        managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 15,031 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Marsh Peak Wilderness''.
            (14) Cliff peak.--Certain Federal land in Uintah and 
        Duchesne Counties managed by the United States Forest Service 
        comprising approximately 9,153 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``Cliff Peak Wilderness''.
            (15) Bull canyon.--Certain Federal land in Uintah County, 
        Utah managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 599 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah PLI 
        Wilderness Map and dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Bull Canyon Wilderness''.
            (16) White canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 18,886 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``White Canyon Wilderness''.
            (17) Mexican mountain.--Certain Federal land in Emery 
        County managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 84,976 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Mexican Mountain Wilderness''.
            (18) Sids mountain.--Certain Federal land in Emery County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 82,406 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Sids Mountain Wilderness''.
            (19) Muddy creek.--Certain Federal land in Emery County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 72,400 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Muddy Creek Wilderness''.
            (20) San rafael reef.--Certain Federal land in Emery County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 54,284 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``San Rafael Reef Wilderness''.
            (21) Crack canyon wilderness.--Certain Federal land in 
        Emery County managed by the Bureau of Land Management 
        comprising approximately 27,191 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``Crack Canyon Wilderness''.
            (22) Devils canyon.--Certain Federal land in Emery County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 8,652 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Devils Canyon Wilderness''.
            (23) Nelson mountain.--Certain Federal land in Emery County 
        managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 12,856 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Nelson Mountain Wilderness''.
            (24) William granstaff canyon.--Certain Federal land in 
        Grand County managed by the Bureau of Land Management 
        comprising approximately 8,420 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``William Granstaff Canyon Wilderness''.
            (25) Mill creek canyon.--Certain Federal land in Grand 
        County managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 12,357 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Mill Creek Canyon Wilderness''.
            (26) Labyrinth canyon.--Certain Federal land in Grand and 
        Emery Counties managed by the Bureau of Land Management 
        comprising approximately 56,688 acres, as generally depicted on 
        the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``Labyrinth Canyon Wilderness''.
            (27) Canyonlands.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the National Park Service comprising approximately 
        257,606 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness 
        Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as the 
        ``Canyonlands Wilderness''.
            (28) Arches.--Certain Federal land in Grand County managed 
        by the National Park Service comprising approximately 63,808 
        acres, as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness Map 
        dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as the ``Arches 
        Wilderness''.
            (29) Fisher towers.--Certain Federal land in Grand County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 1,190 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Fisher Towers Wilderness''.
            (30) Mary jane canyon.--Certain Federal land in Grand 
        County managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 13,574 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Mary Jane Canyon Wilderness''.
            (31) Granite creek.--Certain Federal land in Grand County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 25,104 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Granite Creek Wilderness''.
            (32) Book cliffs.--Certain Federal land in Grand County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 175,490 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Book Cliffs Wilderness''.
            (33) Westwater.--Certain Federal land in Grand County, Utah 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 32,954 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map and dated June 30, 2016, which shall be 
        known as the ``Westwater Wilderness''.
            (34) Beaver creek.--Certain Federal land in Grand County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 48,416 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Beaver Creek Wilderness''.
            (35) Mount peale.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 4,302 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Mount Peale Wilderness''.
            (36) Hammond canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan 
        County managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 7,593 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Hammond Canyon Wilderness''.
            (37) Arch canyon.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 4,376 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Arch Canyon Wilderness''.
            (38) Dinosaur.--Certain Federal land in Uintah County 
        managed by the National Park Service comprising approximately 
        52,348 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness 
        Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as the ``Dinosaur 
        Wilderness''.
            (39) Cedar mountain.--Certain Federal land in Emery County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management comprising 
        approximately 17,355 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Cedar Mountain Wilderness''.
            (40) Indian creek.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the Bureau of Land Management and the United States 
        Forest Service comprising approximately 6,562 acres, as 
        generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wilderness Map dated June 
        30, 2016, which shall be known as the ``Indian Creek 
        Wilderness''.
            (41) Steer gulch.--Certain Federal land in San Juan County 
        managed by the United States Forest Service comprising 
        approximately 25,094 acres, as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wilderness Map dated June 30, 2016, which shall be known as 
        the ``Steer Gulch Wilderness''.

SEC. 102. MAPS AND LEGAL DESCRIPTIONS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years from the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior and the Secretary 
of Agriculture as appropriate shall file a map and legal description of 
each of the wilderness areas with the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate.
    (b) Force and Effect.--Each map and legal description submitted 
under this section shall have the same force and effect as if included 
in this title, except that the Secretary of the Interior and the 
Secretary of Agriculture as appropriate may make any minor 
modifications of any clerical or typographical errors in the map or 
legal description provided that prior to any modifications, clerical or 
typographical changes, these changes are reported to the State of Utah 
and the affected county.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Land Management, 
the National Park Service, and the United States Forest Service.

SEC. 103. WILDERNESS ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights, including the 
rights of a tribe, each wilderness area established under section 101 
shall be administered by the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary 
of Agriculture as appropriate in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.), except that--
            (1) any reference in that Act to the effective date shall 
        be considered to be a reference to the date of enactment of 
        this Act; and
            (2) with respect to wilderness areas that are administered 
        by the Secretary of the Interior, any reference in the 
        Wilderness Act to the Secretary of Agriculture shall be 
        considered to be a reference to the Secretary of the Interior.
    (b) Fire, Insects, and Disease.--In accordance with section 4(d)(1) 
of the Wilderness Act, the relevant Secretary may take such measures in 
each wilderness area necessary to control of fire, insects, and disease 
(including, as the relevant Secretary determines to be appropriate, the 
coordination of such activities with a State, tribe, or local agency).
    (c) Wildfire Management Operations.--Nothing in this title 
precludes a Federal, State, tribal, or local agency from conducting 
wildfire management operations (including operations using aircraft or 
mechanized equipment).
    (d) Livestock.--
            (1) Grazing.--The grazing of livestock in each wilderness 
        area, if established before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        shall continue, subject to reasonable rules and regulations as 
        prescribed by the relevant Secretary, in accordance with--
                    (A) section 4(d)(4) of the Wilderness Act (16 
                U.S.C. 1133(d)(4)); and
                    (B) the guidelines set forth in Appendix A of the 
                report of the Committee on Interior and Insular Affairs 
                of the House of Representatives accompanying H.R. 2570 
                of the 101st Congress (House Report 101-405).
            (2) Utah department of agriculture and food.--In instances 
        in which historic grazing areas, access, or use is disputed by 
        the grazing permittee, data and information provided by the 
        Utah Department of Agriculture shall be given consideration by 
        the relevant Secretary to establish historic grazing areas, 
        locations, or use.
    (e) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--In accordance with section 
4(d)(6) of the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1133(d)(5)), commercial 
services (including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within 
the wilderness areas are authorized to the extent necessary to realize 
the recreational purposes of the areas.
    (f) Access.--In accordance with section 5(a) of the Wilderness Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1134(a)), the relevant Secretary shall provide the owner of 
State, tribal or private property within the boundary of a wilderness 
area access to the property.
    (g) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--The relevant Secretary 
shall allow existing water structures and facilities for wildlife water 
development projects, including guzzlers, in the wilderness areas 
designated by this title.
    (h) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of 
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping within the wilderness 
areas.
    (i) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all public land 
within the areas established as wilderness under this title, including 
any land or interest in land that is acquired by the United States 
within the wilderness areas after the date of enactment of this Act, is 
withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (j) Trail and Fence Maintenance.--The relevant Secretary shall 
maintain trails and fence lines located within the wilderness areas 
designated by this title, in accordance with the Wilderness Act (16 
U.S.C. 1131 et seq.).

SEC. 104. WATER RIGHTS.

    (a) Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall constitute either an express or implied 
        reservation by the United States of any water rights with 
        respect to the wilderness areas designated by section 101;
            (2) affects any water rights in the State of Utah existing 
        on the date of enactment of this Act, including any water 
        rights held by the United States;
            (3) establishes a precedent with regard to any future 
        wilderness designations; or
            (4) shall restrict or prohibit the upstream diversion of 
        water rights held under Utah State law.
    (b) Existing Water Infrastructure.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to limit motorized access and road maintenance by local 
municipalities, including irrigation districts, and other water right 
holders for maintenance activities necessary to guarantee the continued 
viability of water resource facilities that currently exist or which 
may be necessary in the future to prevent the degradation of the water 
supply in wilderness areas designated by section 101.

SEC. 105. MILITARY OVERFLIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title restricts or precludes--
            (1) low-level overflights of military aircraft over 
        wilderness areas designated by section 101, including military 
        overflights that can be seen or heard within wilderness areas;
            (2) flight testing and evaluation; or
            (3) the designation or creation of new units of special use 
        airspace, or the establishment of military flight training 
        routes, over wilderness areas.

SEC. 106. ADJACENT MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
perimeter or buffer zone around a wilderness area designated by section 
101.
    (b) Activities Outside Wilderness Area.--The fact that an activity 
or use on land outside a wilderness area can be seen, heard or smelled 
within the wilderness area shall not preclude the activity or use 
outside the boundary of the wilderness area.

SEC. 107. INDIAN RIGHTS.

    Nothing in this title diminishes the rights of any Indian tribe.

SEC. 108. ACQUISITION OF LAND AND INTERESTS IN LAND.

    (a) Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--The relevant Secretary may acquire land or 
        interest in land within the boundaries of the wilderness areas 
        designated by section 101 only by donation, exchange, transfer 
        from another Federal agency, or purchase from a willing seller.
            (2) Land exchange.--At the request of the State of Utah, 
        not later than two years after the date of enactment of this 
        Act, the relevant Secretary shall complete exchanges for State 
        land located within the boundaries of the wilderness areas 
        designated by this title.
            (3) No condemnation.--Within the areas designated as 
        wilderness by this title, the use of eminent domain or 
        condemnation shall be prohibited.
    (b) Incorporation in Wilderness Area.--Any land or interest in land 
located inside the boundary of a wilderness area that is acquired by 
the United States after the date of enactment of this Act, except land 
acquired by the United States in trust for the benefit of a tribe, 
shall be added to, and administered as part of the wilderness area.

SEC. 109. WILDERNESS RELEASE.

    (a) Public Land.--
            (1) Finding.--Congress finds that, for purposes of section 
        603 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1782), the public land administered by the Bureau of 
        Land Management in the following wilderness study areas, as 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Wilderness map dated June 
        30, 2016, have been adequately studied for wilderness 
        designation--
                    (A) the 43,322-acre area known as Winter Ridge 
                Wilderness Study Area;
                    (B) the 7,051-acre area known as Jack Canyon 
                Wilderness Study Area;
                    (C) the 6,557-acre area known as Squaw and Papoose 
                Wilderness Study Area;
                    (D) the 20,404-acre area known as Desolation Canyon 
                Wilderness Study Area included within the Desolation 
                Canyon Special Management Area as designated by this 
                title and as depicted on the map;
                    (E) the 2,516-acre area known as Daniels Canyon 
                Wilderness Study Area; and
                    (F) the 945-acre area known as Cross Canyon 
                Wilderness Study Area.
            (2) Release.--Any land managed by the Bureau of Land 
        Management within the areas described in paragraph (1) that is 
        not designated as wilderness by this title--
                    (A) shall not be subject to section 603(c) of the 
                Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
                U.S.C. 1782(c));
                    (B) shall be managed in accordance with land 
                management plans adopted under section 202 of that Act 
                (43 U.S.C. 1712); and
                    (C) shall no longer be subject to Secretarial Order 
                No. 3310 issued by the Secretary of the Interior on 
                December 22, 2010.

SEC. 110. AIRSHEDS.

    (a) Designations.--Except as provided in subsection (b), it is the 
intent of Congress that wilderness areas designated under section 101 
shall not be designated as Class I airsheds under the Clean Air Act (42 
U.S.C. 7401-7661) unless Class I status is agreed by the State of Utah 
under existing authorities.
    (b) Exceptions.--The lands within the wilderness designated by 
section 101(K), (AA), and (BB) shall continue to be managed as Class I 
airsheds.

                 TITLE II--NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREAS

SEC. 201. NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREAS.

    Subject to valid existing rights, including the rights of a tribe, 
the following areas in the State of Utah are hereby established as 
National Conservation Areas:
            (1) Beach draw.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 658 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Beach Draw National Conservation 
        Area''.
            (2) Diamond mountain.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 30,390 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Diamond Mountain National 
        Conservation Area''.
            (3) Docs valley.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 8,544 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Docs Valley National Conservation 
        Area''.
            (4) Stone bridge draw.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 2,415 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Stone Bridge Draw National 
        Conservation Area''.
            (5) Stuntz draw.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 2,284 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Stuntz Draw National Conservation 
        Area''.
            (6) San rafael swell.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 530,380 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Emery County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``San Rafael Swell National 
        Conservation Area''.
            (7) Labyrinth canyon.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 61,723 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Emery County and Grand County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI National Conservation 
        Area Map dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Labyrinth 
        Canyon National Conservation Area''.
            (8) Muddy creek.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 53,804 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Emery County, Utah, as generally depicted on the 
        map entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map and dated 
        June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Muddy Creek National 
        Conservation Area''.
            (9) Colorado river.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 166,949 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Grand County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Colorado River National Conservation 
        Area''.
            (10) Indian creek.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 434,354 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management and United States Forest Service in San Juan County, 
        Utah, as generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI 
        National Conservation Area Map and dated June 30, 2016, to be 
        known as the ``Indian Creek National Conservation Area''.
            (11) San rafael river.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 33,935 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Emery County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``San Rafael River National 
        Conservation Area''.

SEC. 202. MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years from the date of 
enactment of this Act, the relevant Secretary shall file a map and 
legal description of the National Conservation Areas established by 
section 201 of this title with the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate.
    (b) Force and Effect.--Each map and legal description submitted 
under this section shall have the same force and effect as if included 
in this title, except that the relevant Secretary may make minor 
modifications of any clerical or typographical errors in the map or 
legal description provided that prior to any modifications, clerical or 
typographical changes, these changes are reported to the State of Utah 
and the affected county.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Land Management, 
and the United States Forest Service.

SEC. 203. ADMINISTRATION OF NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREAS.

    (a) Purposes.--In accordance with this title, the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and other 
applicable laws, the relevant Secretary shall manage the National 
Conservation Areas established by section 201 in a manner that--
            (1) protects, conserves, and enhances the unique and 
        nationally important historic, cultural, scientific, scenic, 
        recreational, archaeological, natural, and educational 
        resources of the Conservation Area;
            (2) maintains and enhances cooperative and innovative 
        management practices between resource managers, private 
        landowners, and the public in the Conservation Area; and
            (3) recognizes and maintains historic uses of the 
        Conservation Area.
    (b) Management Plans.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the relevant Secretary shall develop 
        a management plan for the long-term management of each 
        Conservation Area.
            (2) Recommendations and consultation.--The relevant 
        Secretary shall prepare the management plan in consultation and 
        coordination with local and tribal governments, the public, and 
        the Public Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation 
        Advisory Committee established under Division C of this Act. If 
        the relevant Secretary does not incorporate recommendations 
        submitted by the State, local governments, and Indian tribes 
        into the management plans, the relevant Secretary shall submit 
        a written explanation before the effective date of the 
        management plan to the House Committee on Natural Resources and 
        Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources outlining the 
        reasons for rejecting the recommendations.

SEC. 204. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
land within the National Conservation Areas established under section 
201 including any land or interest in land that is acquired by the 
United States within the Conservation Areas after the date of enactment 
of this Act, is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (b) Fire, Insects, and Disease.--In accordance with this title, the 
relevant Secretary may take such measures in each Conservation Area 
necessary to control fire, insects, and disease (including the 
coordination of such activities with a State, tribal, or local agency).
    (c) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this title precludes a 
Federal, State, tribal, or local agency from conducting wildfire 
management operations (including operations using aircraft or 
mechanized equipment) in Conservation Areas designated under section 
201.
    (d) Livestock.--
            (1) In general.--Within the Conservation Areas established 
        under section 201 the grazing of livestock established before 
        the date of enactment of this Act shall continue subject to 
        reasonable regulations as prescribed by the relevant Secretary.
            (2) Protection of existing uses.--Existing livestock 
        grazing shall continue in accordance with the following 
        guidelines:
                    (A) There shall be no reductions of grazing in the 
                areas designated by this title simply because an area 
                is, or has been designated by this title.
                    (B) The number of livestock permitted to graze in 
                areas designated by this title shall continue at 
                approximate stocking levels prescribed in the grazing 
                permit that existed on January 1, 2016, and additional 
                or suspended animal unit months shall be allowed to 
                graze as range conditions allow or if range treatments 
                improve conditions. Animal Unit Months shall only be 
                diminished as a result of revisions in the normal 
                grazing and land management planning and policy setting 
                process.
                    (C) The maintenance of existing grazing supporting 
                facilities in an area prior to its designation by this 
                title (including fences, placement of salt and 
                minerals, line cabins, water wells and pipelines, stock 
                tanks and ponds), shall continue. Such maintenance may 
                include the use of off-highway vehicles or mechanized 
                tools and equipment.
                    (D) The construction of new grazing improvements or 
                replacement of deteriorated livestock facilities in 
                areas designated by this title is authorized if in 
                accordance with the applicable management plan.
                    (E) The use of off-highway vehicles for emergency 
                purposes such as care of sick animals or the placement 
                of feed and water in emergency situations is authorized 
                by the applicable grazing permit holder or an employee 
                or agent thereof.
                    (F) Access to historic and traditional water 
                sources for the purpose of watering livestock shall be 
                maintained.
                    (G) The trailing of domestic livestock shall 
                continue and shall not be limited by the designations 
                made under section 201.
            (3) Utah department of agriculture and food.--In instances 
        in which historic grazing areas, access, or use is disputed by 
        the grazing permittee, data and information provided by the 
        Utah Department of Agriculture shall be given consideration by 
        the relevant Secretary to determine historic grazing areas or 
        use.
    (e) Existing Easements and Rights-of-Way.--Nothing in this title 
precludes the relevant Secretary from renewing easements or rights-of-
way in Conservation Areas established under section 201 in existence on 
the date of enactment of this Act, in accordance with this division and 
existing law.
    (f) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around a Conservation Area designated 
        by section 201.
            (2) Activities outside conservation area.--An activity or 
        use on land outside of a Conservation Area established under 
        section 201 that can be seen, heard, felt, or smelled within 
        the Conservation Area shall not preclude the activity or use 
        outside the boundary of the Conservation Area.
    (g) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Commercial services 
(including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within the 
Conservation Areas established under section 201 are authorized to the 
extent necessary to realize the recreational purposes of the areas.
    (h) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of 
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping and use of helicopters to 
maintain healthy wildlife populations, within the Conservation Areas 
established under section 201.
    (i) Access.--The relevant Secretary shall provide the owner of 
State, tribal or private property within the boundary of a Conservation 
Area established under section 201 access to the property.
    (j) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Structures and 
facilities, including future and existing structures and facilities, 
for wildlife water development projects (including guzzlers) in the 
Conservation Areas established under section 201 are authorized.
    (k) Water Rights.--
            (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute either an express or implied 
                reservation by the United States of any water rights 
                with respect to the Conservation Areas designated by 
                this title;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State of Utah 
                existing on the date of enactment of this title, 
                including any water rights held by the United States;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future National Conservation Area designations; or
                    (D) shall restrict or prohibit the upstream 
                diversion of water rights held under Utah State law.
            (2) Existing water infrastructure.--Nothing in this title 
        shall be construed to limit motorized access and road 
        maintenance by local municipalities, including irrigation 
        districts, and other water right holders for maintenance 
        activities necessary to guarantee the continued viability of 
        water resource facilities that currently exist or which may be 
        necessary in the future to prevent the degradation of the water 
        supply in Conservation Areas designated by this title.
    (l) Wilderness Release.--Congress finds that the Conservation Areas 
designated by section 201 have been adequately studied for wilderness 
character and wilderness designation pursuant to section 603 of the 
Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1782) and are 
no longer subject to the requirement of subsection (c) of such section 
pertaining to the management of wilderness study areas in a manner that 
does not impair the suitability of such areas for preservation as 
wilderness.
    (m) Prohibition.--The relevant Secretary may not promulgate or 
issue any system-wide regulation, directive, instruction memorandum or 
order that would direct management of the Federal lands designated as 
Conservation Areas by section 201 in a manner contrary to this title.
    (n) Vegetation Management.--Nothing in this title prevents the 
relevant Secretary from conducting vegetation management projects 
within the Conservation Areas established under section 201 in a manner 
consistent with the purposes for the Conservation Area pursuant to 
section 203(a).
    (o) Off-Highway Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except in cases in which off-highway 
        vehicles are needed for administrative purposes, including 
        project construction and maintenance, response to an emergency 
        or as outlined in section 204(d)(2), the use of off-highway 
        vehicles shall be permitted only on designated routes within 
        the Conservation Areas designated under section 201.
            (2) Designated routes for off-highway vehicles.--
                    (A) In general.--The relevant Secretary shall 
                manage existing designated routes in a manner that--
                            (i) is consistent with off-highway vehicle 
                        and mechanized use of the designated routes 
                        that is authorized under the applicable travel 
                        management plan;
                            (ii) does not significantly damage 
                        designated critical habitat or cultural 
                        resources; and
                            (iii) does not interfere with private 
                        property or water rights.
                    (B) Closure.--The relevant Secretary, in 
                consultation with the State and affected County, may 
                temporarily close or permanently reroute, subject to 
                subparagraph (C), a route if the relevant Secretary 
                determines that--
                            (i) the route is significantly damaging 
                        designated critical habitat or cultural 
                        resources;
                            (ii) the route threatens public safety;
                            (iii) closure of the route is necessary to 
                        repair damage to the designated route; or
                            (iv) closure of the route is necessary to 
                        repair resource damage.
                    (C) Rerouting.--Portions of the designated route 
                that are temporarily closed may be permanently rerouted 
                by utilizing a previously closed route or constructing 
                a new route.
                    (D) Notice.--The relevant Secretary shall provide 
                information to the public regarding any designated 
                routes that are open, have been rerouted, or are 
                temporarily or permanently closed through--
                            (i) use of appropriate signage within the 
                        Conservation Area; and
                            (ii) use of the Internet and Web resources.
    (p) Temporary Road Construction.--The relevant Secretary shall be 
permitted to construct temporary passenger vehicle roads for 
administrative or emergency purposes. The relevant Secretary shall 
decommission any temporary road constructed under this paragraph not 
later than three years after the date the project is completed.
    (q) No Effect on Non-Federal Land or Interests in Non-Federal 
Land.--Nothing in this title affects ownership, management, or other 
rights relating to non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land.
    (r) Scientific Investigations.--The relevant Secretary shall 
provide opportunities, including through partnerships with colleges, 
universities, schools, tribes, scientific institutions, nonprofit 
organizations, researchers, and scientists to conduct research and 
provide educational and interpretive services of the historical, 
cultural, scientific, archeological, and natural resources within the 
Conservation Areas designated by section 201. Research findings from 
the Conservation Areas may be used to develop land use solutions that 
meet human needs while maintaining ecological and economic viability in 
the region.
    (s) Research and Interpretive Facilities.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior and 
        Secretary of Agriculture may establish facilities for--
                    (A) the conduct of scientific research; and
                    (B) the interpretation of the historical, cultural, 
                scientific, archeological, biological, natural and 
                educational resources of the Conservation Areas 
                designated under section 201.
            (2) Grants and cooperative agreements.--In carrying out 
        subsection (r), the Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of 
        Agriculture may make grants to, or enter into cooperative 
        agreements with the State of Utah, local governmental entities, 
        tribes, other institutions and organizations, and private 
        entities to conduct research, conduct scientific analyses, and 
        carry out any other initiative relating to the restoration or 
        conservation of the Conservation Areas.
    (t) Partnerships.--In carrying out subsections (r) and (s) and in 
recognition of the value of collaboration to foster innovation and 
enhance research and development efforts, the Secretary of the Interior 
and the Secretary of Agriculture shall encourage partnerships, 
including public-private partnerships, between and among Federal, 
State, tribal and local agencies, academic institutions, nonprofit 
organizations and private entities.
    (u) Recreation.--The relevant Secretary shall continue to 
authorize, maintain, and enhance the recreational use of the 
Conservation Areas designated under section 201, including hunting, 
fishing, camping, hiking, backpacking, cross-country skiing, hang 
gliding, paragliding, rock climbing, canyoneering, sightseeing, nature 
study, horseback riding, mountain biking, rafting, off-highway vehicle 
recreation on designated routes, and other recreational activities.
    (v) Acquisition.--
            (1) In general.--The relevant Secretary may acquire land or 
        interest in land within the boundaries of the Conservation 
        Areas designated by section 201 only by donation, exchange, 
        transfer from another Federal agency, or purchase from a 
        willing seller.
            (2) Land exchange.--At the request of the State, not later 
        than two years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        relevant Secretary shall complete exchanges for State land 
        located within the boundaries of the Conservation Areas 
        designated by section 201.
            (3) No condemnation.--Within the Conservation Areas 
        designated by section 201 the use of eminent domain or 
        condemnation shall be prohibited.
            (4) Incorporation in national conservation area.--Any land 
        or interest in land located inside the boundary of a 
        Conservation Area designated under section 201 that is acquired 
        by the United States after the date of enactment of this Act 
        shall be added to and administered as part of the Conservation 
        Area.

SEC. 205. ADDITIONAL PURPOSE FOR DOCS VALLEY, STONE BRIDGE DRAW, STUNTZ 
              DRAW, BEACH DRAW, AND DIAMOND MOUNTAIN NATIONAL 
              CONSERVATION AREAS.

    Nothing in this title shall effect existing or future sage grouse 
conservation projects, including the management of vegetation through 
mechanical means within the Docs Valley, Stone Bridge Draw, Stuntz 
Draw, Beach Draw, and Diamond Mountain National Conservation Areas 
designated under section 201.

SEC. 206. ADDITIONAL PURPOSE FOR COLORADO RIVER NATIONAL CONSERVATION 
              AREA.

    To provide for the management, development, protection, and use of 
drinking water within the Colorado River National Conservation Area.

                 TITLE III--WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AREAS

SEC. 301. WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Establishment.--The following Watershed Management Areas are 
hereby established in the State of Utah, subject to valid existing 
rights:
            (1) Ashley spring.--The ``Ashley Spring Watershed 
        Management Area'', consisting of approximately 10,951 acres of 
        the Ashley National Forest in Uintah County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area 
        Map dated June 30, 2016.
            (2) Dry fork.--The ``Dry Fork Watershed Management Area'', 
        consisting of approximately 9,640 acres of the Ashley National 
        Forest in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016.
            (3) Castle valley.--The ``Castle Valley Watershed 
        Management Area'', consisting of approximately 34,247 acres of 
        the Manti-La Sal National Forest in Grand County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area 
        Map dated June 30, 2016.
            (4) Widdop mountain.--The ``Widdop Mountain Watershed 
        Management Area'', consisting of approximately 8,025 acres of 
        the Ashley National Forest in Summit County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area 
        Map dated June 30, 2016.
            (5) East fork smiths fork.--The ``East Fork Smiths Fork 
        Watershed Management Area'', consisting of approximately 3,178 
        acres of the Ashley National Forest in Summit County as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Special 
        Management Area Map dated June 30, 2016.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--Two years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter 
        ``Secretary'' in this title) shall file a map and legal 
        description of the Watershed Management Areas with the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary of 
        Agriculture may correct minor errors in the map or legal 
        description provided that prior to any modifications, clerical 
        or typographical changes, these changes are reported to the 
        State of Utah and the affected county.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the U.S. Forest 
        Service and the Bureau of Indian Affairs.

SEC. 302. ADMINISTRATION OF WATERSHED MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Watershed Management Areas are--
            (1) to ensure the protection of the quality of water in the 
        Watershed Management Areas;
            (2) to allow visitors to enjoy the scenic, natural, 
        cultural, recreational, and wildlife values of the Watershed 
        Management Areas;
            (3) to provide for the management, development, and use of 
        drinking water within the Watershed Management Areas;
            (4) to allow for the reintroduction of beavers in 
        appropriate Watershed Management Areas;
            (5) to allow for reintroduction of native flora (land and 
        aquatic), bird, fish and animal fauna in Watershed Management 
        Areas;
            (6) to provide for the restoration of watersheds and re-
        establish ecosystem health in areas damaged or threatened by 
        insects, disease or prior land use; and
            (7) to provide for the restoration of ecosystems damaged or 
        threatened by overpopulation of any plant, aquatic or animal 
        species.
    (b) Management.--The Secretary shall manage the Watershed 
Management Areas--
            (1) in a manner consistent with the purposes described in 
        subsection (a); and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the laws generally applicable to the National 
                Forest System;
                    (B) this title; and
                    (C) any other applicable law.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        management plan for the long-term management of each Watershed 
        Management Area.
            (2) Recommendations and consultation.--The Secretary shall 
        prepare the management plan in consultation and coordination 
        with local and tribal governments, the public, and the Public 
        Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation Advisory Committee 
        established under Division C of this Act. If the Secretary does 
        not incorporate recommendations submitted by the State, local 
        governments, and Indian tribes into the management plans, the 
        Secretary shall submit a written explanation before the 
        effective date of the management plan to the House Committee on 
        Natural Resources and Senate Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources outlining the reasons for rejecting the 
        recommendations.

SEC. 303. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Motorized Vehicles.--Except in cases in which motorized 
vehicles are needed for administrative purposes or to respond to an 
emergency, the use of motorized vehicles shall be permitted only on 
designated routes within the Watershed Management Areas.
    (b) No Effect on Non-Federal Land or Interests in Non-Federal 
Land.--Nothing in this title affects ownership, management, or other 
rights relating to non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land.
    (c) Road Construction.--The Secretary shall be permitted to 
construct roads for administrative or emergency purposes, or if a 
temporary road is needed to facilitate forest management projects to 
protect or enhance watersheds. The Secretary shall decommission any 
temporary road constructed under a project under this section not later 
than three years after the date on which the forest management project 
is completed.
    (d) Oversnow Vehicles.--Where permitted prior to the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall authorize the use of 
snowmobiles and other over snow vehicles within the Watershed 
Management Areas when there is at least six inches of snow coverage.
    (e) Fire, Insects, and Disease.--In accordance with this title and 
in consultation with State, tribal, and local government and water or 
irrigation districts who own or control water resources within 
Watershed Management Areas, the Secretary may carry out measures to 
prevent wildland fire and reduce hazardous fuels, insects, and diseases 
in the Watershed Management Areas to protect or improve water quality 
or to maintain or restore the characteristics of ecosystem composition 
and structure.
    (f) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this title precludes a 
Federal, State, or local agency from conducting wildfire management 
operations (including operations using aircraft or mechanized 
equipment) in Watershed Management Areas designated under section 301.
    (g) Post-Fire Rehabilitation.--The Secretary may conduct post-fire 
rehabilitation in the Watershed Management Areas, consistent with this 
title and in accordance with applicable law.
    (h) Vegetation Management.--The Secretary shall conduct vegetation 
management projects within the Watershed Management Areas if projects 
protect or improve water quality or maintain or restore the 
characteristics of ecosystem composition and structure.
    (i) Forest Management.--Within the Watershed Management Areas, 
timber harvesting may be used if the primary purpose is to restore or 
improve forest health and watershed function or to further the purposes 
described in this title.
    (j) Livestock.--
            (1) In general.--Within the Watershed Management Areas 
        designated under section 301, the grazing of livestock 
        established before the date of enactment of this Act shall 
        continue subject to reasonable regulations as prescribed by the 
        relevant Secretary.
            (2) Protection of existing uses.--Existing livestock 
        grazing shall continue in accordance with the following 
        guidelines:
                    (A) There shall be no reductions of grazing in the 
                areas designated by this title simply because an area 
                is, or has been designated by this title.
                    (B) The number of livestock permitted to graze in 
                areas designated by this title shall continue at 
                approximate stocking levels prescribed in the grazing 
                permit that existed on January 1, 2016, and additional 
                or suspended animal unit months shall be authorized to 
                graze as range conditions allow or if range treatments 
                improve conditions. Animal Unit Months shall only be 
                diminished as a result of revisions in the normal 
                grazing and land management planning and policy setting 
                process.
                    (C) The maintenance of existing grazing supporting 
                facilities in an area prior to its designated by this 
                title (including fences, placement of salt and 
                minerals, line cabins, water wells and pipelines, stock 
                tanks and ponds), shall continue. Such maintenance may 
                include the use of off-highway vehicles or mechanized 
                tools and equipment.
                    (D) The construction of new grazing improvements or 
                replacement of deteriorated facilities in areas 
                designated by this title is authorized if in accordance 
                with the applicable land management plan.
                    (E) The use of off-highway vehicles for emergency 
                purposes such as care of sick animals or the placement 
                of feed and water in emergency situations is authorized 
                by the applicable grazing permit holder or an employee 
                or agent thereof.
                    (F) Access to historic and traditional water 
                sources for the purpose of watering livestock shall be 
                maintained.
                    (G) The trailing of domestic livestock shall 
                continue and shall not be limited by the designations 
                made under section 301.
            (3) Utah department of agriculture and food.--In instances 
        in which historic grazing locations, access, or use is disputed 
        by the grazing permittee, data and information provided by the 
        Utah Department of Agriculture shall be given consideration by 
        the Secretary to establish historic access, locations, or use.
    (k) Existing Easements and Rights-of-Way.--Nothing in this title 
precludes the Secretary from renewing easements or rights-of-way in 
existence as of the date of enactment of this Act, in accordance with 
this title and existing law.
    (l) Adjacent Management.--Nothing in this title creates a 
protective perimeter or buffer zone around a Watershed Management Area 
designated by section 301.
    (m) Activities Outside Watershed Management Area.--The fact that an 
activity or use on land outside a Watershed Management Area can be 
seen, heard, felt or smelled within the Watershed Management Area shall 
not preclude the activity or use outside the boundary of the Watershed 
Management Area.
    (n) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Commercial services 
(including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within the 
Watershed Management Areas are authorized to the extent necessary to 
realize the recreational purposes of the areas.
    (o) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of 
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping within the Watershed 
Management Areas.
    (p) Access.--The Secretary shall provide the owner of State, tribal 
or private property within the boundary of a Watershed Management Areas 
access to the property.
    (q) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Structures and 
facilities, including future and existing structures and facilities, 
for wildlife water development projects (including guzzlers) in the 
Watershed Management Areas are authorized.
    (r) Water Rights.--Nothing in this title--
            (1) shall constitute either an express or implied 
        reservation by the United States of any water rights with 
        respect to the Watershed Management Areas designated by this 
        title;
            (2) affects any water rights in the State of Utah existing 
        on the date of enactment of this Act, including any water 
        rights held by the United States;
            (3) establishes a precedent with regard to any future 
        Watershed Management Area designations; or
            (4) shall restrict or prohibit the upstream diversion of 
        water rights held under Utah State law.
    (s) Existing Water Infrastructure.--Nothing in this title shall be 
construed to limit motorized access and road maintenance by local 
municipalities or irrigation districts and other water right holders 
for those maintenance activities necessary to guarantee the continued 
viability of water resource facilities that currently exist or which 
may be necessary in the future to prevent the degradation of the water 
supply in Watershed Management Areas designated by section 301 subject 
to such reasonable regulations deemed necessary by the Secretary.
    (t) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
of enactment of this title, the Federal land within the Watershed 
Management Areas designated by section 301 are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the Federal land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (u) Ashley Spring and Dry Fork.--The management plans for the 
Ashley Spring and Dry Fork management areas shall include provisions 
for the development of containment ponds, water pipes, and other 
improvements to deliver water to the Ashley Valley should the flow of 
Ashley Spring become diminished or impaired.
    (v) Wilderness Review.--The Secretary may not promulgate or issue 
any system-wide regulation, directive, instruction memorandum or order 
that would direct management of the Federal lands designated as 
Watershed Management Areas in section 301 in a manner contrary to this 
title.

                   TITLE IV--SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS

SEC. 401. HIGH UINTAS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
approximately 19,191 acres of the Ashley National Forest in Uintah and 
Duchesne County, Utah, as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Utah 
PLI High Uintas Special Management Area Map'' dated June 24, 2016, is 
established as the High Uintas Special Management Area.
    (b) Purposes.--The purpose of the High Uintas Special Management 
Area (hereinafter referred to in this title as the ``Area'') are to 
maintain the natural values of the area and to allow for the continued 
use of oversnow vehicles.

SEC. 402. HIGH UINTAS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA MAP AND LEGAL 
              DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter 
``Secretary'' in this title) shall file a map and legal description of 
the Area with the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of 
the Senate.
    (b) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under paragraph 
(1) shall have the same force and effect as if included in this title, 
except that the Secretary may correct minor errors in the map or legal 
description provided that prior to any modifications, clerical or 
typographical changes, these changes are reported to the State of Utah 
and the affected county.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the United States Forest Service.

SEC. 403. ADMINISTRATION OF THE HIGH UINTAS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Area in 
accordance with--
            (1) the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 
        1600 et seq.);
            (2) this title; and
            (3) other applicable laws.
    (b) Management Plan.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        management plan for the long-term management of the Area.
            (2) Recommendations and consultation.--The Secretary shall 
        prepare the management plan in consultation and coordination 
        with State, local and tribal governments, the public, and the 
        Public Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation Advisory 
        Committee established under Division C of this Act. If the 
        Secretary does not incorporate recommendations submitted by the 
        State, local governments, and Indian tribes into the management 
        plans, the Secretary shall submit a written explanation before 
        the effective date of the management plan to the House 
        Committee on Natural Resources and Senate Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources outlining the reasons for rejecting the 
        recommendations.
            (3) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the 
        Area that would further the purposes outlined in subsection 
        401(b) and the following guidelines:
                    (A) Maintain the existing, outstanding natural 
                values of the Area.
                    (B) Allow for the continued use and access of 
                oversnow vehicles, including snowmobiles.
                    (C) Allow for non-motorized recreational 
                opportunities to occur within the Area including 
                skiing, biking, hiking, fishing, hunting, horseback 
                riding, snowshoeing, and camping.
                    (D) Prohibit mineral development.
                    (E) Prohibit new permanent road construction.
                    (F) Prohibit commercial timber harvesting.

SEC. 404. HIGH UINTAS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all Federal 
land within the Area established under section 401 is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (b) Fire, Insects, and Disease.--In accordance with this title, the 
Secretary may take such measures in the Area as are necessary for the 
control of fire, insects, and disease (including the coordination of 
the activities with a State or local agency).
    (c) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this title precludes a 
Federal, State, or local agency from conducting wildfire management 
operations (including operations using aircraft or mechanized 
equipment) in the Area designated under section 401.
    (d) Livestock.--
            (1) In general.--Within the Area designated under section 
        401, the grazing of livestock established before the date of 
        enactment of this Act shall continue subject to reasonable 
        regulations as prescribed by the relevant Secretary.
            (2) Protection of existing uses.--Existing livestock 
        grazing shall continue in accordance with the following 
        guidelines:
                    (A) There shall be no reductions of grazing in the 
                areas designated by this section simply because an area 
                is, or has been designated by this title.
                    (B) The number of livestock permitted to graze in 
                areas designated by this title shall continue at 
                approximate stocking levels prescribed in the grazing 
                permit that existed on January 1, 2016, and additional 
                or suspended animal unit months shall be authorized to 
                graze as range conditions allow or if range treatments 
                improve conditions. Animal Unit Months shall only be 
                diminished as a result of revisions in the normal 
                grazing and land management planning and policy setting 
                process.
                    (C) The maintenance of existing grazing supporting 
                facilities in an area prior to its designated by this 
                section (including fences, placement of salt and 
                minerals, line cabins, water wells and pipelines, stock 
                tanks and ponds), shall continue. Such maintenance may 
                include the use of off-highway vehicles or mechanized 
                tools and equipment.
                    (D) The construction of new grazing improvements or 
                replacement of deteriorated facilities in areas 
                designated by this section is authorized if in 
                accordance with the applicable land management plan.
                    (E) The use of off-highway vehicles for emergency 
                purposes such as care of sick animals or the placement 
                of feed and water in emergency situations is authorized 
                by the applicable grazing permit holder or an employee 
                or agent thereof.
                    (F) Access to historic and traditional water 
                sources for the purpose of watering livestock shall be 
                maintained.
                    (G) The trailing of domestic livestock shall 
                continue and shall not be limited by the designations 
                made under section 401.
            (3) Utah department of agriculture and food.--In instances 
        in which historic grazing locations, access, or use is disputed 
        by the grazing permittee, data and information provided by the 
        Utah Department of Agriculture shall be given consideration by 
        the Secretary to establish historic access, locations, or use.
    (e) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around the Area.
            (2) Activities outside the area.--The fact that an activity 
        or use on land outside the Area can be seen, heard, felt or 
        smelled within the Area shall not preclude the activity or use 
        outside the boundary of the Area.
    (f) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Commercial services 
(including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within the Area 
are authorized to the extent necessary to realize the recreational 
purposes of the areas.
    (g) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of 
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping and use of helicopters to 
maintain healthy wildlife populations, within the Area.
    (h) Access.--The Secretary shall provide the owner of State or 
private property within the boundary of the Area.
    (i) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Structures and 
facilities, including future and existing structures and facilities, 
for wildlife water development projects (including guzzlers) in the 
Area are authorized.
    (j) Water Rights.--
            (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute either an express or implied 
                reservation by the United States of any water rights 
                with respect to the High Uintas Special Management 
                Area;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State of Utah 
                existing on the date of enactment of this Act;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future special management areas designations; or
                    (D) shall restrict or prohibit the upstream 
                diversion of water rights held under Utah State law.
            (2) Utah water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of State law to obtain 
        and hold any water rights not in existence on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act with respect to the Area.
            (3) Effects on state water rights.--The Secretary shall not 
        take any action that adversely affects--
                    (A) any water rights granted by the State;
                    (B) the authority of the State in adjudicating 
                water rights;
                    (C) definitions established by the State with 
                respect to the term ``beneficial use'' or ``priority of 
                rights'';
                    (D) terms and conditions for groundwater 
                withdrawal;
                    (E) the use of groundwater resources that are in 
                accordance with State law; or
                    (F) other rights or obligations of the State as 
                established under State law.
            (4) Existing water infrastructure.--
                    (A) Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
                limit off-highway vehicle access and road maintenance 
                by local municipalities, water districts or irrigation 
                districts, for those maintenance activities necessary 
                to guarantee the continued viability of water resource 
                facilities that currently exist or which may be 
                necessary in the future to prevent the degradation of 
                the water supply in the Area.
                    (B) Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
                encumber, transfer, impair, or limit any water right, 
                or recognized beneficial use, including access to, 
                development, and use of livestock water rights as 
                defined by State law.
    (k) Permanent Road Construction.--After the date of enactment of 
this Act, except as necessary for administrative purposes or to respond 
to an emergency, the Secretary shall not construct any permanent road 
within the Area.
    (l) Temporary Road Construction.--The Secretary is authorized to 
construct temporary passenger vehicle roads for administrative or 
emergency purposes. The Secretary shall decommission any temporary road 
constructed under this subsection not later than 3 years after the date 
the road is constructed.
    (m) Use of Off-Highway or Motorized Vehicles.--Except as necessary 
to meet the minimum requirements for the administration of the Area and 
to protect public health and safety, the use of off-highway vehicle or 
motorized vehicles is prohibited.
    (n) Commercial Timber Harvesting.--Commercial timber harvesting 
within the Area is prohibited.
    (o) Oversnow Vehicles.--The Secretary of Agriculture shall 
authorize the use of snowmobiles and other oversnow vehicles within the 
High Uintas Special Management Area when there is at least six inches 
of snow coverage.

SEC. 405. LITTLE WEST FORK BLACKS FORK SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, the 
approximately 8,231 acres of the Wasatch Cache National Forest in 
Summit County, Utah as generally depicted on the map entitled ``Utah 
PLI Little West Fork Blacks Special Management Area Map'' dated June 
24, 2016, is established as the ``Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special 
Management Area''.
    (b) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--Two years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the shall file a map and legal description of the 
        Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area with the 
        Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
        and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the 
        Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the 
        Senate.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary may correct 
        minor errors in the map or legal description provided that 
        prior to any modifications, clerical or typographical changes, 
        these changes are reported to the State of Utah and the 
        affected county.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the United States 
        Forest Service.

SEC. 406. ADMINISTRATION OF LITTLE WEST FORK BLACKS FORK SPECIAL 
              MANAGEMENT AREA.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of the Little West Fork Blacks Fork 
Special Management Area is to manage, maintain, and restore watershed 
and ecosystem function and aquatic habitat within the Area.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Little West 
Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area--
            (1) in a manner that promotes, protects, and manages the 
        resources of the Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special 
        Management Area described in subsection (a); and
            (2) in accordance with--
                    (A) the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 
                U.S.C. 1600 et seq.);
                    (B) this title; and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
    (c) Management Plan.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        management plan for the long-term management of the Little West 
        Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area.
            (2) Recommendations and consultation.--The Secretary shall 
        prepare the management plan in consultation and coordination 
        with local and tribal governments, the public, and the Public 
        Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation Advisory Committee 
        established under Division C of this Act. If the Secretary of 
        the Interior does not incorporate recommendations submitted by 
        the State, local governments, and Indian tribes into the 
        management plans, the Secretary shall submit a written 
        explanation before the effective date of the management plan to 
        the House Committee on Natural Resources and Senate Committee 
        on Energy and Natural Resources outlining the reasons for 
        rejecting the recommendations of the State, local governments 
        and tribes.
    (d) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the special 
management area that would further the purposes outlined in subsection 
(a) and the following:
            (1) Include skiing, biking, hiking, fishing, hunting, 
        horseback riding, snowmobiling, motorcycle riding, off-highway 
        vehicle use, snowshoeing, and camping.
            (2) Allow for reintroduction of native flora (land and 
        aquatic), bird, fish and animal fauna in Little West Fork 
        Blacks Fork Special Management Area.
            (3) Restore watershed function and health and re-establish 
        ecosystem health in areas damaged or threatened by insects and 
        disease.
            (4) Restore the balance of the ecosystem health damaged or 
        threatened by overpopulation of any plant, aquatic or animal 
        species.
            (5) Allow hazardous fuels reduction and forest health 
        treatments to restore watershed and ecosystem function, reduce 
        hazardous fuels, and to protect property in the wildland urban 
        interface.

SEC. 407. LITTLE WEST FORK BLACKS FORK SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA GENERAL 
              PROVISIONS.

    (a) Off-Highway Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--Except in cases in which off-highway 
        vehicles are needed for administrative purposes or to respond 
        to an emergency, the use of off-highway vehicles shall be 
        permitted only on designated routes within the Little West Fork 
        Blacks Fork Special Management Area.
            (2) Management.--The Secretary shall manage existing 
        designated routes in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway vehicle and 
                mechanized use of the designated routes authorized 
                under the applicable travel management plan;
                    (B) does not significantly damage designated 
                critical habitat or cultural resources; and
                    (C) does not interfere with private property or 
                water rights.
            (3) Closure.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State 
        and affected County, may temporarily close or permanently 
        reroute, subject to paragraph (4), a route if the Secretary 
        determines that--
                    (A) the route is significantly damaging designated 
                critical habitat or cultural resources;
                    (B) the route threatens public safety;
                    (C) closure of the route is necessary to repair 
                damage to the designated route; or
                    (D) closure of the route is necessary to repair 
                resource damage.
            (4) Rerouting.--Portions of the designated route that are 
        temporarily closed may be permanently rerouted by utilizing a 
        previously closed route or constructing a new route.
            (5) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide information to the 
        public regarding any designated routes that are open, have been 
        rerouted, or are temporarily or permanently closed through--
                    (A) use of appropriate signage within the 
                Conservation Area; and
                    (B) use of the Internet and Web resources.
    (b) No Effect on Non-Federal Land or Interests in Non-Federal 
Land.--Nothing in this section affects ownership, management, or other 
rights relating to non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land.
    (c) Permanent Road Construction.--Except as necessary for 
administrative purposes or to respond to an emergency, the Secretary 
shall not construct any permanent roads within the Little West Fork 
Blacks Fork Special Management Area after the date of enactment of this 
Act.
    (d) Temporary Road Construction.--The Secretary shall be permitted 
to construct temporary roads to implement the purposes of the area, 
including constructing temporary roads for fuel reduction, forest 
health treatments and prescribed burns. The Secretary shall 
decommission any temporary road constructed under a project under this 
section not later than three years after the date on which the forest 
management project is completed.
    (e) Oversnow Vehicles.--The Secretary shall authorize the use of 
snowmobiles and other oversnow vehicles within the Little West Fork 
Blacks Fork Special Management Area when there is at least six inches 
of snow coverage.
    (f) Fire, Insects, and Disease.--In accordance with this section, 
the Secretary may--
            (1) carry out measures to manage wildland fire and treat 
        hazardous fuels, insects, and diseases in the Little West Fork 
        Blacks Fork Special Management Area; and
            (2) coordinate those measures with the appropriate State or 
        local agency.
    (g) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this title precludes a 
Federal, State, or local agency from conducting wildfire management 
operations (including operations using aircraft or mechanized 
equipment) in the Area designated under section 405.
    (h) Livestock Grazing.--
            (1) In general.--Within the Little West Fork Blacks Fork 
        Special Management Area, the grazing of livestock in which 
        grazing is established before the date of enactment of this Act 
        shall continue subject to reasonable regulations as prescribed 
        by the relevant Secretary.
            (2) Protection of existing uses.--Existing livestock 
        grazing shall continue in accordance with the following 
        guidelines:
                    (A) There shall be no reductions of grazing in the 
                areas designated by section 405 simply because an area 
                is or has been designated.
                    (B) The number of livestock permitted to graze in 
                areas designated by section 405 shall continue at 
                approximate stocking levels prescribed in the grazing 
                permit that existed on January 1, 2016, and additional 
                or suspended animal unit months shall be authorized to 
                graze as range conditions allow or if range treatments 
                improve conditions. Animal Unit Months shall only be 
                diminished as a result of revisions in the normal 
                grazing and land management planning and policy setting 
                process.
                    (C) The maintenance of existing grazing supporting 
                facilities in an area prior to its designated by 
                section 405 (including fences, placement of salt and 
                minerals, line cabins, water wells and pipelines, stock 
                tanks and ponds), shall continue. Such maintenance may 
                include the use of off-highway vehicles or mechanized 
                tools and equipment.
                    (D) The construction of new grazing improvements or 
                replacement of deteriorated facilities in areas 
                designated by section 405 is authorized if in 
                accordance with the applicable land management plan.
                    (E) The use of off-highway vehicles for emergency 
                purposes such as care of sick animals or the placement 
                of feed and water in emergency situations is authorized 
                by the applicable grazing permit holder or an employee 
                or agent thereof.
                    (F) Access to historic and traditional water 
                sources for the purpose of watering livestock shall be 
                maintained.
                    (G) The trailing of domestic livestock shall 
                continue and shall not be limited by the designations 
                made under section 405.
            (3) Utah department of agriculture and food.--In instances 
        in which historic grazing locations, access, or use is disputed 
        by the grazing permittee, data and information provided by the 
        Utah Department of Agriculture shall be given consideration by 
        the Secretary to establish historic access, locations, or use.
    (i) Existing Easements and Rights-of-Way.--Nothing in this title 
precludes the Secretary from renewing easements or rights-of-way in 
existence as of the date of enactment of this Act, in accordance with 
this title and existing law.
    (j) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around the Little West Fork Blacks 
        Fork Special Management Area designated by section 405.
            (2) Activities outside special management area.--The fact 
        that an activity or use on land outside the Little West Fork 
        Blacks Fork Special Management Area can be seen, heard, felt or 
        smelled within the Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special 
        Management Area shall not preclude the activity or use outside 
        the boundary of Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management 
        Area.
    (k) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--As permitted as of January 1, 
2016, commercial services (including authorized outfitting and guide 
activities) within the Little West Fork Blacks Special Management Area 
are authorized to the extent necessary to realize the recreational 
purposes of the areas.
    (l) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this section affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of 
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping within the Little West 
Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area.
    (m) Access.--Consistent with the purposes of section 406(a), and as 
authorized as of the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary 
shall provide the owner of State, tribal, or private property within 
the boundary of the Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management 
Area access to the property.
    (n) Water Rights.--
            (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute either an express or implied 
                reservation by the United States of any water rights 
                with respect to the Little West Fork Blacks Fork 
                Special Management Areas designated by section 405;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State of Utah;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future Special Management Areas designations; or
                    (D) shall restrict or prohibit the upstream 
                diversion of water rights held under Utah State law.
            (2) Utah water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of State law to obtain 
        and hold any water rights not in existence on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act with respect to the Little West Fork 
        Blacks Fork Special Management Areas.
            (3) Effects on state water rights.--The Secretary shall not 
        take any action that adversely affects--
                    (A) any water rights granted by the State;
                    (B) the authority of the State in adjudicating 
                water rights;
                    (C) definitions established by the State with 
                respect to the term ``beneficial use'' or ``priority of 
                rights'';
                    (D) terms and conditions for groundwater 
                withdrawal;
                    (E) the use of groundwater resources that are in 
                accordance with State law; or
                    (F) other rights or obligations of the State as 
                established under State law.
            (4) Existing water infrastructure.--Nothing in this section 
        shall be construed to--
                    (A) limit off-highway vehicle access and road 
                maintenance by local municipalities, irrigation 
                districts, or water districts for those maintenance 
                activities necessary to guarantee the continued 
                viability of water resource facilities that currently 
                exist or which may be necessary in the future to 
                prevent the degradation of the water supply in the 
                Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area 
                designated by section 405; and
                    (B) encumber, transfer, impair, or limit any water 
                right, or recognized beneficial use, including access 
                to, development, and use of livestock water rights as 
                defined by State law.
    (o) Vegetation Management.--Consistent with the purposes of the 
Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area, nothing in this 
section prevents the Secretary from conducting vegetation management 
projects within the Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management 
Area.
    (p) Commercial Timber Harvest.--Consistent with the purposes of the 
Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area commercial timber 
harvest is authorized if the primary purpose of harvest is to restore 
or improve forest resiliency and watershed function or to further the 
purposes described in section 405.
    (q) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid existing rights, the Federal land 
within the Little West Fork Blacks Fork Special Management Area 
designated by section 405 are withdrawn from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the Federal land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 408. DESOLATION CANYON, NINE MILE CANYON, WHITE RIVER AND BOOKS 
              CLIFFS SPORTSMEN'S SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, the following 
areas in the State of Utah are hereby established as Special Management 
Areas:
            (1) Desolation canyon.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 8,770 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Carbon County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Desolation Canyon Special Management 
        Area''.
            (2) Nine mile canyon.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 41,301 acres; 26,210 acres in Carbon County and 
        15,091 acres in Duchesne County administered by the Bureau of 
        Land Management in Carbon County and Duchesne County as 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Special 
        Management Area Map dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the 
        ``Nine Mile Canyon Special Management Area''.
            (3) White river.--Certain Federal land, comprising 
        approximately 15,790 acres administered by the Bureau of Land 
        Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on the map 
        entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``White River Special Management 
        Area''.
            (4) Books cliffs sportsmens.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 42,351 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Uintah County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area 
        Map dated June 30, 2016, is established as ``Book Cliffs 
        Sportsmens Special Management Area''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Desolation Canyon, Nine Mile 
Canyon, and White River Special Management Areas (hereinafter referred 
to as the ``Areas'') established under subsection (a) is to--
            (1) protect, conserve, and enhance the unique and 
        nationally important historic, cultural, scientific, scenic, 
        recreational, archaeological, natural, and educational 
        resources of the Areas;
            (2) maintain and enhance cooperative and innovative 
        management practices between resource managers, private 
        landowners, and the public in the Areas; and
            (3) recognize and maintains historic uses of the Areas.
    (c) Books Cliffs Sportsmens Special Management Area Purposes.--The 
purpose of the Book Cliffs Sportsmens Special Management Area (hereinto 
referred to as the ``Book Cliffs Area'') is to protect hunting and 
fishing opportunities and habitat, manage and restore fish and wildlife 
habitat, and facilitate hunting and fishing opportunities in a natural 
environment.

SEC. 409. DESOLATION CANYON, NINE MILE CANYON, WHITE RIVER AND BOOKS 
              CLIFFS SPORTSMEN'S SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA MAP AND LEGAL 
              DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall file a map and legal 
description of the Areas and the Books Cliffs Area with the Committee 
on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (b) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this section, except that the Secretary may correct minor errors in the 
map or legal description provided that prior to any modifications, 
clerical or typographical changes, these changes are reported to the 
State of Utah and the affected county.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 410. ADMINISTRATION OF THE DESOLATION CANYON, NINE MILE CANYON, 
              AND WHITE RIVER SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREAS.

    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a management plan 
for the long-term management of each of the Areas.
    (b) Recommendations and Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare 
the management plans in consultation and coordination with the State, 
local and tribal governments, the public, and the Public Lands 
Initiative Planning and Implementation Advisory Committee established 
under Division C of this Act. If the Secretary does not incorporate 
recommendations submitted by the State, local, and Indian tribes into 
the management plans, the Secretary shall submit a written explanation 
before the effective date of the management plan to the House Committee 
on Natural Resources and Senate Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources outlining the reasons for rejecting the recommendations.

SEC. 411. DESOLATION CANYON, NINE MILE CANYON, AND WHITE RIVER SPECIAL 
              MANAGEMENT AREA GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Applicability.--The general provisions of section 204 shall 
apply to the Areas.
    (b) Exception.--The withdrawal provided by 204(a) shall not apply 
to the Desolation Canyon Special Management Area, White River Special 
Management Area, and the Nine Mile Canyon Special Management Area.
    (c) Oil and Gas Leasing.--The Secretary may lease oil and gas 
resources in accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et 
seq.) subject to the following conditions:
            (1) The minerals may be accessed only by directional 
        drilling from a lease held on the date of enactment of this Act 
        and accessed through surface estate that is adjacent to, and 
        outside of, the Areas.
            (2) The lease shall prohibit surface occupancy and surface 
        disturbance for any mineral activities within the Areas.
    (d) Nine Mile Canyon Additional Provisions.--
            (1) Energy development, including access needs for energy 
        development, within the Nine Mile Canyon Special Management 
        Area shall be allowed under the terms of the West Tavaputs 
        Plateau Project Final Environmental Impact Statement and Record 
        of Decision of July 2, 2010.
            (2) Upon enactment of this section, the current Area of 
        Critical Environmental Concern designation made under FLPMA 
        (site) shall be permanently removed from the Nine Mile Canyon 
        Special Management Area.

SEC. 412. BOOK CLIFFS SPORTSMENS SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA ADDITIONAL 
              PROVISIONS.

    (a) Management Plan.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinto referred 
to as the ``Secretary'') shall develop a management plan for the long-
term management of the Book Cliffs Area.
            (1) Recommendations and consultation.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall prepare the management plan in consultation and 
        coordination with the Advisory Council described in subsection 
        (d) below. If the Secretary of the Interior does not 
        incorporate the recommendations submitted by the Advisory 
        Council into the management plan the Secretary of the Interior 
        shall submit a written explanation before the effective date of 
        the management plan to the House Committee on Natural Resources 
        and Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources outlining 
        the reasons for rejecting the recommendations of the Advisory 
        Council.
            (2) Requirements.--The management plan shall be written in 
        accordance with section 408(c).
            (3) Uses.--The Secretary shall only allow such uses of the 
        Books Cliffs Area that would further the purposes of the Books 
        Cliffs Area.
    (b) Vegetation Management.--Within the Book Cliffs Area, the 
Secretary may authorize vegetation management, including mechanical 
treatments, to the extent necessary to control fire, insects, or 
disease or to promote and improve wildlife habitat and diversity as 
consistent with the purposes of the Book Cliffs Area.
    (c) Mineral Leasing.--the Secretary may lease oil and gas resources 
in accordance with the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 181 et seq.) in 
the Books Cliffs Area subject to the following conditions:
            (1) The area may be accessed only by directional drilling 
        from a lease held on the date of enactment of this Act on 
        surface estate that is adjacent to, and outside of, the Books 
        Cliffs Area.
            (2) The Books Cliff Area may be accessed only by 
        directional drilling if the mineral lease entered into includes 
        a non-waivable stipulation prohibiting surface occupancy and 
        surface disturbance for any mineral activities within the Books 
        Cliffs Area.
    (d) Wilderness Review.--The Secretary may not promulgate or issue 
any system-wide regulation, directive, instruction memorandum or order 
that would direct management of Federal lands designated under section 
408 in a manner contrary to this title.

SEC. 413. BOOK CLIFFS SPORTSMEN'S SPECIAL MANAGEMENT AREA ADVISORY 
              COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment and Purpose of the Book Cliffs Sportsmen's 
Special Management Area Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        establish and maintain the Book Cliffs Sportsmen's Special 
        Management Area Advisory Committee (referred to in this title 
        as the ``Book Cliffs Advisory Committee'') to perform the 
        duties in subsection (b).
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Book Cliffs Advisory 
        Committee is to advise the Secretary of the Interior on the 
        Book Cliffs Special Management Area.
    (b) Duties.--The Book Cliffs Advisory Committee shall advise the 
Secretary of the Interior with regard to--
            (1) implementation of the Book Cliffs Special Management 
        Area Management Plan; and
            (2) administration of the Book Cliffs Special Management 
        Area.
    (c) Appointment by the Secretary.--
            (1) Appointment and term.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall appoint the members of the Book Cliffs Advisory Committee 
        for a term of 5 years beginning on the date of appointment. The 
        Secretary of the Interior may not reappoint members to more 
        than three terms.
            (2) Basic requirements.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall ensure that the Book Cliffs Advisory Committee 
        established meets the requirements of subsection (d).
            (3) Initial appointment.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall make initial appointments to the Book Cliffs Advisory 
        Committee not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (4) Vacancies.--The Secretary of the Interior shall make 
        appointments to fill vacancies on the Book Cliffs Advisory 
        Committee as soon as practicable after the vacancy has 
        occurred.
            (5) Compensation.--Members of the Book Cliffs Advisory 
        Committee shall not receive any compensation.
    (d) Composition of Book Cliffs Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Number.--The Book Cliffs Advisory Committee shall be 
        comprised of no more than 11 members.
            (2) Community interests represented.--Book Cliffs Advisory 
        Committee members shall reside in the State of Utah and be 
        representative of the following members:
                    (A) State Division of Wildlife Resources Director 
                or one designee.
                    (B) Game bird hunting organization.
                    (C) Wildlife conservation organization.
                    (D) Big game hunting organization.
                    (E) Cold water fishing organization.
                    (F) Tourism, outfitter, or guiding industry.
                    (G) Hunting or shooting equipment retail industry.
                    (H) Ute Tribe.
                    (I) Forest or rangeland management specialist.
                    (J) Ranching industry in Uintah County.
                    (K) Uintah County Commission Chairman or designee.
            (3) Preservation of public advisory status.--No individual 
        serving under section 402 may be an officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government or State of Utah Government.
            (4) Balanced representation.--In appointing Book Cliffs 
        Advisory Committee members from the two categories in section 
        402, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide for balanced 
        and broad representation from within each category.
            (5) Chairperson.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        select the chairperson of the Book Cliffs Advisory Committee 
        for a term of 5 years beginning on the date of appointment.
    (e) Annual Book Cliffs Advisory Committee Report.--
            (1) Report submission.--The Book Cliffs Advisory Committee 
        shall submit a report no later than September 30 of each year 
        to the Secretary of the Interior, the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. If the Book 
        Cliffs Advisory Committee cannot meet the September 30 deadline 
        in any year, the Secretary of the Interior shall advise the 
        Chair of each such Committee of the reasons for such delay and 
        the date on which the submission of the report is anticipated.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        describe--
                    (A) the activities of the Book Cliffs Advisory 
                Committee during the preceding year;
                    (B) the reports and recommendations made by the 
                Book Cliffs Advisory Committee to the Secretary of the 
                Interior during the preceding year; and
                    (C) an accounting of actions taken by the Secretary 
                of the Interior as a result of the recommendations.
    (f) Other Book Cliffs Advisory Committee Authorities and 
Requirements.--
            (1) Staff assistance.--The Book Cliffs Advisory Committee 
        may submit to the Secretary of the Interior a request for 
        periodic staff assistance from Federal employees under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary.
            (2) Meetings.--
                    (A) Frequency.--The Book Cliffs Advisory Committee 
                shall meet at the call of the Secretary of the 
                Interior, the Chairperson, or a majority of the 
                members. Meetings shall be held no fewer than 1 time a 
                year. A majority must be present to constitute an 
                official meeting of the Book Cliffs Advisory Committee.
                    (B) Open meetings.--All meetings of the Book Cliffs 
                Advisory Committee shall be announced at least one week 
                in advance in publications of general circulation and 
                shall be open to the public.
            (3) Records.--The Book Cliffs Advisory Committee shall 
        maintain records of the meetings of the Book Cliffs Advisory 
        Committee and make the records available for public inspection.

                TITLE V--ARCHES NATIONAL PARK EXPANSION

SEC. 501. ARCHES NATIONAL PARK EXPANSION.

    Section 1 of Public Law 92-155 is amended--
            (1) by inserting the following after paragraph (2)--
            ``(3) Effective on the date of enactment of the Utah Public 
        Lands Initiative Act, the boundary of the park shall include 
        the area consisting of approximately 18,779 acres and depicted 
        as Arches Expansion on the map entitled `Utah PLI Park and 
        Monument Map' dated June 24, 2016.'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (3) in paragraph (4), as so designated by paragraph (2) of 
        this provision, by striking ``(1) and (2)'' and inserting 
        instead ``(1), (2), and (3)''.

                  TITLE VI--JURASSIC NATIONAL MONUMENT

SEC. 601. JURASSIC NATIONAL MONUMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--To conserve, interpret, and enhance for the benefit 
of present and future generations the paleontological, scientific, 
educational, and recreational resources, there is established in Emery 
County, Utah, subject to valid existing rights, the Jurassic National 
Monument (hereinafter referred to in this title as the ``Monument'').
    (b) Boundaries.--The Monument shall consist of approximately 867 
acres of Federal land in Emery County, Utah as generally depicted on 
the map entitled ``Utah PLI Park and Monument Map'' dated June 24, 
2016, to be known as the ``Jurassic National Monument''.
    (c) Map and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--Two years after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter referred 
        to as the ``Secretary'') shall file a map and legal description 
        of the Monument with the Committee on Natural Resources of the 
        House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and 
        Natural Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this section, except that the Secretary may correct 
        minor errors in the map or legal description provided that 
        prior to any modifications, clerical or typographical changes, 
        these changes are reported to the State of Utah and the 
        affected county.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.
    (d) Acquisition of Land.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary may acquire land or 
        interests in land within the boundaries of the Monument only by 
        donation, exchange, transfer from another agency, or purchase 
        from a willing seller.
            (2) Land exchange.--At the request of the State, not later 
        than two years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
        Secretary shall complete exchanges for State land located 
        within the boundaries of the Monument designated by this title.
            (3) No condemnation.--Within the Monument designated by 
        this section the use of eminent domain or condemnation shall be 
        prohibited.
    (e) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, any land within 
the Monument or any land or interest in land that is acquired by the 
United States for inclusion in the Monument after the date of enactment 
of this section is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the Federal 
        land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing laws, geothermal 
        leasing laws, and minerals materials laws.
    (f) Management Plan.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than two years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a 
        management plan for the long-term management of the Monument, 
        including consideration of enhanced transportation routes, 
        outdoor recreation planning, and promotion of scientific 
        research.
            (2) Recommendations and consultation.--The Secretary shall 
        prepare the management plan in consultation and coordination 
        with State, local and tribal governments, the public, and the 
        Public Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation Advisory 
        Committee established under Division C of this Act. If the 
        Secretary does not incorporate recommendations submitted by the 
        State, local governments, and Indian tribes into the management 
        plans, the Secretary shall submit a written explanation before 
        the effective date of the management plan to the House 
        Committee on Natural Resources and Senate Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources outlining the reasons for rejecting the 
        recommendations of the State and local governments and tribes.
            (3) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the 
        Monument that would further the purposes outlined in subsection 
        (a).
    (g) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Monument in 
accordance with--
            (1) the management plan; and
            (2) any other applicable laws.
    (h) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around the Monument designated by this 
        section.
            (2) Activities outside monument.--The fact that an activity 
        or use on land outside the Monument can be seen, heard, felt or 
        smelled within the Monument shall not preclude the activity or 
        use outside the boundary of the Monument.

                   TITLE VII--WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS

SEC. 701. WILD AND SCENIC RIVERS.

    (a) Additions.--Section 3(a) of the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 
U.S.C. 1274(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(213) Colorado river.--The following segments in the 
        State of Utah, to be administered by the Secretary of the 
        Interior as follows:
                    ``(A) The approximately 12.6 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated July 11, 2016, as a wild river.
                    ``(B) The approximately 12.6 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The approximately 52.2 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, as a recreational 
                river.
                    ``(D) The approximately 27.1 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, as a scenic 
                river.
            ``(214) Dolores river.--The following segments in the State 
        of Utah, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) The approximately 5.6 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, as a recreational 
                river.
                    ``(B) The approximately 5.8 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, as a scenic 
                river.
                    ``(C) The approximately 11.5 mile segment in Grand 
                County as generally depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and 
                Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, as a recreational 
                river.
            ``(215) Green river.--The following segments in the State 
        of Utah, to be administered by the Secretary of the Interior as 
        follows:
                    ``(A) The approximately 69.5 mile river segment in 
                Uintah, Carbon, Emery, and Grand Counties as generally 
                depicted on the Utah PLI Wild and Scenic River Map 
                dated June 11, 2016, as a as a scenic river.
                    ``(B) The approximately 19.2 mile river segment in 
                Emery and Grand Counties as generally depicted on the 
                Utah PLI Wild and Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, 
                as a wild river.
                    ``(C) The approximately 8.5 mile river segment in 
                Emery and Grand Counties as generally depicted on the 
                Utah PLI Wild and Scenic River Map dated June 11, 2016, 
                as a recreational river.
                    ``(D) The approximately 109.4 mile river segment in 
                Emery and Grand Counties as generally depicted on the 
                Utah PLI Wild and Scenic River Map dated July 11, 2016, 
                as a scenic river.
            ``(216) Dark canyon.--The approximately 6.3 mile river 
        segment in San Juan County as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wild and Scenic River Map dated July 11, 2016, as a wild 
        river.
            ``(217) San juan river.--The approximately 17.2 mile river 
        segment in San Juan County as generally depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Wild and Scenic River Map dated July 11, 2016, as a wild 
        river.''.
    (b) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around a wild and scenic river 
        designated by this title.
            (2) Activities outside wild and scenic river.--The fact 
        that an activity or use on land outside a wild and scenic river 
        designated under this title can be seen, heard, felt or smelled 
        within the wild and scenic river shall not preclude the 
        activity or use outside the boundary of the wild and scenic 
        river.
    (c) Acquisition.--The Secretary of the Interior may acquire land or 
interest in land within the boundaries of the wild and scenic river 
areas designated by this title only by donation, exchange, or transfer 
from another agency.
    (d) No Condemnation.--Within the areas designated by this title the 
use of eminent domain or condemnation shall be prohibited.
    (e) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Commercial services 
(including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within the wild 
and scenic rivers designated by this title are authorized to the extent 
necessary to realize the recreational purposes of the areas.
    (f) Maps and Legal Description.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than two years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall file 
        a map and legal description of the river segments designated by 
        this title with the Committee on Natural Resources of the House 
        of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate.
            (2) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
        paragraph (1) shall have the same force and effect as if 
        included in this title, except that the Secretary of the 
        Interior may correct minor errors in the map or legal 
        description and provided that prior to any modifications, 
        clerical or typographical changes, these changes are reported 
        to the State of Utah and the affected counties.
            (3) Public availability.--A copy of the map and legal 
        description shall be on file and available for public 
        inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land 
        Management.

     TITLE VIII--ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL GEOLOGIC AND RECREATION AREA

SEC. 801. ASHLEY KARST NATIONAL GEOLOGIC AND RECREATION AREA.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, including the 
rights of a tribe, the approximately 110,838 acres generally depicted 
on the map entitled Utah PLI Special Management Area Map dated June 30, 
2016, are hereby established as the ``Ashley Karst National Geologic 
and Recreation Area''.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of the Ashley Karst National Geologic 
and Recreation Area (hereinto referred to in this title as the 
``Area'') are to provide recreational opportunities, protection and 
management of water resources, utilization of commercial forest 
products and withdrawal of minerals from development.

SEC. 802. MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture (hereinafter 
referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall file a map and legal 
description of the Ashley Karst National Geologic and Recreation Area 
(hereinafter referred to as the ``Area'' with the Committee on Natural 
Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy 
and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (b) Effect.--The map and legal description prepared under 
subsection (a) shall have the same force and effect as if included in 
this title, except that the Secretary may correct minor errors in the 
map or legal description and provided that prior to any modifications, 
clerical or typographical changes, these changes are reported to the 
State of Utah and the affected county.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the United States Forest Service and Bureau of Indian 
Affairs.

SEC. 803. ADMINISTRATION.

    (a) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Area in 
accordance with--
            (1) the National Forest Management Act of 1976 (16 U.S.C. 
        1600 et seq.);
            (2) this title; and
            (3) other applicable laws.
    (b) Management.--Not later than two years after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall develop a management plan 
for the long-term management of the Area.
    (c) Recommendations and Consultation.--The Secretary shall prepare 
the management plan in consultation and coordination with local and 
tribal governments, the public, and the Public Lands Initiative 
Planning and Implementation Advisory Committee established under 
Division C of this Act. If the Secretary does not incorporate 
recommendations submitted by the State, local, and Indian tribes into 
the management plans, the Secretary shall submit a written explanation 
before the effective date of the management plan to the House Committee 
on Natural Resources and Senate Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources outlining the reasons for rejecting the recommendations of 
the State, local and tribal governments.
    (d) Uses.--The Secretary shall allow only such uses of the Area 
that would further the purposes outlined in subsection 801(b) of this 
title and the following guidelines:
            (1) Provide for recreational opportunities to occur within 
        the Area including skiing, biking, hiking, fishing, hunting, 
        horseback riding, snowmobiling, designated trails for 
        motorcycle riding and off-highway vehicle use, snowshoeing, 
        camping, and other recreational activities consistent with this 
        title.
            (2) Provide for active forest management, utilizing 
        commercial harvesting for hazardous fuels reduction, wildfire 
        prevention, control of insects and disease, and to improve 
        watershed health.
            (3) Prohibit mineral development.
            (4) Promote the long-term protection and management of the 
        water resources and underground karst system.

SEC. 804. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Off-Highway Vehicle and Motorized Vehicles.--
            (1) In general.--The use of off-highway vehicles and 
        motorized vehicles shall be permitted within the Area.
            (2) Management.--The Secretary shall designate existing 
        routes in a manner that--
                    (A) uses Forest Service roads and routes existing 
                as of January 1, 2016, and also new roads authorized by 
                this title;
                    (B) does not significantly damage designated 
                critical habitat or cultural resources; and
                    (C) does not interfere with private property or 
                water rights.
            (3) Closure.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State 
        and affected County, may temporarily close or permanently 
        reroute, subject to paragraph (4), a route if the Secretary 
        determines that--
                    (A) the route is significantly damaging designated 
                critical habitat or cultural resources;
                    (B) the route threatens public safety;
                    (C) closure of the route is necessary to repair 
                damage to the designated route; or
                    (D) closure of the route is necessary to repair 
                resource damage.
            (4) Rerouting.--Portions of the designated route that are 
        temporarily closed may be permanently rerouted by utilizing a 
        previously closed route or constructing a new route.
            (5) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide information to the 
        public regarding any designated routes that are open, have been 
        rerouted, or are temporarily or permanently closed through--
                    (A) use of appropriate signage within the 
                Conservation Area; and
                    (B) use of the Internet and Web resources.
    (b) Priority Routes.--Marsh Peak South Road and South Fork Road, as 
depicted on the Utah PLI Special Management Area Map, shall be open for 
off-highway vehicle use. Administrative access to Whiterocks Lake for 
general and emergency purposes shall be allowed for the United States 
Forest Service, State and local governments, and applicable water user 
association or utility company.
    (c) Route Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall study the 
        feasibility and public interest of constructing new routes as 
        needed to increase or enhance hiking and motorized recreational 
        opportunities and purposes of the area.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--If the Secretary 
                determines that the construction of a route is feasible 
                the may construct the route.
                    (B) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--A 
                route authorized under this subsection may be 
                constructed by volunteers, with volunteer services and 
                contributions from non-Federal sources.
    (d) No Effect on Non-Federal Land or Interests in Non-Federal 
Land.--Nothing in this title affects ownership, management, or other 
rights relating to non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land 
located within the Area.
    (e) Oversnow Vehicles.--The Secretary shall authorize the use of 
snowmobiles and other oversnow vehicles in the Area when there is at 
least six inches of snow cover.
    (f) Fire, Insects, and Disease.--In accordance with this title, the 
Secretary may--
            (1) carry out any measures to manage wildland fire and 
        treat hazardous fuels, insects, and diseases in the Area; and
            (2) coordinate those measures with the appropriate State, 
        tribal, or local agency.
    (g) Wildland Fire Operations.--Nothing in this title precludes a 
Federal, State, or local agency from conducting wildfire management 
operations (including operations using aircraft or mechanized 
equipment) in the Area designated under this title.
    (h) Livestock Grazing.--Within the Area designated under section 
801, the grazing of livestock established before the date of enactment 
of this Act shall continue subject to reasonable regulations as 
prescribed by the relevant Secretary.
            (1) Protection of existing uses.--Existing livestock 
        grazing shall continue in accordance with the following 
        guidelines:
                    (A) There shall be no reductions of grazing in the 
                areas designated by this title simply because an area 
                is, or has been designated by this title.
                    (B) The number of livestock permitted to graze in 
                areas designated by this title shall continue at 
                approximate stocking levels prescribed in the grazing 
                permit that existed on January 1, 2016, and additional 
                or suspended animal unit months shall be authorized to 
                graze as range conditions allow or if range treatments 
                improve conditions. Animal Unit Months shall only be 
                diminished as a result of revisions in the normal 
                grazing and land management planning and policy setting 
                process.
                    (C) The maintenance of existing grazing supporting 
                facilities in an area prior to its designated by this 
                title (including fences, placement of salt and 
                minerals, line cabins, water wells and pipelines, stock 
                tanks and ponds), shall continue. Such maintenance may 
                include the use of off-highway vehicles or mechanized 
                tools and equipment.
                    (D) The construction of new grazing improvements or 
                replacement of deteriorated facilities in areas 
                designated by this title is authorized if in accordance 
                with the applicable land management plan.
                    (E) The use of off-highway vehicles for emergency 
                purposes such as care of sick animals or the placement 
                of feed and water in emergency situations is authorized 
                by the applicable grazing permit holder or an employee 
                or agent thereof.
                    (F) Access to historic and traditional water 
                sources for the purpose of watering livestock shall be 
                maintained.
                    (G) The trailing of domestic livestock shall 
                continue and shall not be limited by the designations 
                made under section 801(b).
            (2) Utah department of agriculture and food.--In instances 
        in which historic grazing locations, access, or use is disputed 
        by the grazing permittee, data and information provided by the 
        Utah Department of Agriculture shall be given consideration by 
        the Secretary to establish historic access, locations, or use.
    (i) Existing Easements and Rights-of-Way.--Nothing in this title 
precludes the Secretary from renewing easements or rights-of-way in 
existence on the date of enactment of this Act, in accordance with this 
title and existing law.
    (j) Adjacent Management.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this title creates a protective 
        perimeter or buffer zone around the Area designated by section 
        801.
            (2) Activities outside area.--The fact that an activity or 
        use on land outside the Area can be seen, heard, felt or 
        smelled within the Area shall not preclude the activity or use 
        outside the boundary of the Area.
    (k) Outfitting and Guide Activities.--Commercial services 
(including authorized outfitting and guide activities) within the Area 
are authorized to the extent necessary to realize the recreational 
purposes of the areas.
    (l) Fish and Wildlife.--Nothing in this title affects the 
jurisdiction of the State of Utah with respect to the management of 
fish and wildlife on Federal land in the State, including the 
regulation of hunting, fishing, and trapping within the Area.
    (m) Access.--The Secretary shall provide the owner of State, tribal 
or private property owners within the boundary of the Area access to 
the property.
    (n) Wildlife Water Development Projects.--Structures and 
facilities, including future and existing structures and facilities, 
for wildlife water development projects (including guzzlers) in the 
Area are authorized.
    (o) Water Rights.--
            (1) Statutory construction.--Nothing in this title--
                    (A) shall constitute either an express or implied 
                reservation by the United States of any water rights 
                with respect to the Area designated by section 801;
                    (B) affects any water rights in the State of Utah;
                    (C) establishes a precedent with regard to any 
                future designations; or
                    (D) shall restrict or prohibit the upstream 
                diversion of water rights held under Utah State law.
            (2) Utah water law.--The Secretary shall follow the 
        procedural and substantive requirements of State law to obtain 
        and hold any water rights not in existence on the date of the 
        enactment of this Act with respect to the Area.
            (3) Effects on state water rights.--The Secretary shall not 
        take any action that adversely affects--
                    (A) any water rights granted by the State;
                    (B) the authority of the State in adjudicating 
                water rights;
                    (C) definitions established by the State with 
                respect to the term ``beneficial use'' or ``priority of 
                rights'';
                    (D) terms and conditions for groundwater 
                withdrawal;
                    (E) the use of groundwater resources that are in 
                accordance with State law; or
                    (F) other rights or obligations of the State as 
                established under State law.
            (4) Existing water infrastructure.--
                    (A) Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
                limit off-highway vehicle access and road maintenance 
                by local municipalities or water or irrigation 
                districts for those maintenance activities necessary to 
                guarantee the continued viability of water resource 
                facilities that currently exist or which may be 
                necessary in the future to prevent the degradation of 
                the water supply in the Area designated by section 801.
                    (B) Nothing in this title shall be construed to 
                encumber, transfer, impair, or limit any water right, 
                or recognized beneficial use, including access to, 
                development, and use of livestock water rights as 
                defined by State law.
    (p) Vegetation Management.--Nothing in this title prevents the 
Secretary from conducting vegetation management projects within the 
Area.
    (q) Withdrawal.--Subject to valid rights in existence on the date 
of enactment of this Act the Federal land within the Area is withdrawn 
from--
            (1) all forms of entry, appropriation, and disposal under 
        the Federal land laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.
    (r) Fees.--Except for improved campgrounds, within the Area the 
United States Forest Service is prohibited from the collecting or 
requiring fees for access or use.

    DIVISION B--INNOVATIVE LAND MANAGEMENT, RECREATION AND ECONOMIC 
                              DEVELOPMENT

               TITLE I--SCHOOL TRUST LAND CONSOLIDATIONS

SEC. 101. FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that the land exchange authorized and 
directed by this title furthers public objectives referenced in section 
206 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1716) including--
            (1) promoting better management of Federal conservation 
        areas by removing inheld State trust land sections;
            (2) securing Federal ownership and protection of land with 
        significant wildlife, recreational, scenic, cultural and other 
        public values;
            (3) assisting the State of Utah and local governments in 
        economic development and community expansion through the 
        consolidation of State trust lands in manageable blocks near 
        several Utah communities; and
            (4) advancing public education through increased 
        opportunity for economic development of Utah school trust 
        lands, in furtherance of the land grants made under the Utah 
        Enabling Act, Act of July 16, 1894 (28 Stat. 107, chapter 138).
    (b) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to authorize, direct, 
facilitate, and expedite the exchange of land between the State of Utah 
and the United States.

SEC. 102. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        lands identified on the Map as ``Federal Land'', ``Federal 
        Land--Minerals Only'', and ``Federal Land--Surface Only'' 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management located in 
        Carbon, Duchesne, Emery, Grand, San Juan and Uintah Counties, 
        Utah.
            (2) Map.--The term ``Map'' means the following map prepared 
        by the Bureau of Land Management and entitled ``State and 
        Federal Land Exchange Map'' dated July 12, 2016.
            (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the lands identified on the Map as ``State Trust Land Proposed 
        for Transfer to United States'', ``State Trust Lands--Surface 
        Only Proposed for Transfer to United States'' and ``State Trust 
        Lands--Minerals Only Proposed for Transfer to United States'' 
        located in Carbon, Duchesne, Emery, Grand, San Juan and Uintah 
        Counties, Utah, as generally depicted on the Map.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah, 
        acting as trustee under the Utah State School and Institutional 
        Trust Lands Management Act (Utah Code Ann. 53C-1-101 et seq.) 
        through the Utah School and Institutional Trust Lands 
        Administration.

SEC. 103. EXCHANGE OF LAND; RESERVATION OF INTERESTS.

    (a) In General.--If the State offers to convey to the United States 
title to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall, subject to the 
provisions of this title--
            (1) accept the offer; and
            (2) on receipt of the right, title, and interest of the 
        State in and to the non-Federal land, convey to the State all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
        Federal land.
    (b) Valid Existing Rights.--The exchange authorized under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
    (c) Costs.--Costs of the land exchange shall be allocated in 
accordance with section 206(f)(2)(B) of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716(f)(2)(B)).
    (d) Title Approval.--Title to the Federal land and non-Federal land 
to be exchanged under this section shall be in a form acceptable to the 
Secretary and the State.
    (e) Reservation of Interest in Potash.--
            (1) With respect to Federal land that contains potash 
        resources, the Secretary shall reserve an interest in all 
        potash resources.
            (2) The interest reserved by the United States under 
        paragraph (1) shall consist of--
                    (A) 50 percent of any bonus bid or other payment 
                received by the State as consideration for securing any 
                lease or authorization to develop potash resources;
                    (B) 50 percent of the amount that would have been 
                received by the Federal Government under the royalty 
                rate applicable on July 1, 2015, if the potash 
                resources had been retained in Federal ownership; and
                    (C) 50 percent of any other payment received by the 
                State pursuant to any lease or authorization to develop 
                the potash resources.
            (3) Upon receipt of any funds from potash leasing and 
        development on lands in which the Secretary has reserved an 
        interest, the State shall pay the Secretary amounts 
        attributable to the reserved interest of the United States in 
        accordance with paragraph (4).
            (4)(A) Any amounts due under paragraph (3) shall be paid by 
        the State to the United States not less than quarterly.
            (B) The State may deduct an administrative fee of three per 
        cent from all payments due to the United States under paragraph 
        (2).
            (5) No obligation to lease.--The State shall not be 
        obligated to lease or otherwise develop potash resources in 
        which the United States retains an interest under this 
        subsection.
    (f) Reservation of Wellbore Interest in Oil and Gas.--
            (1) The Secretary shall reserve a wellbore interest in each 
        oil and gas well on Federal land that has been determined by 
        the Secretary to be capable of production in paying quantities 
        as of the date of conveyance.
            (2) The wellbore interest reserved to the United States 
        under paragraph (1) shall consist of the amount of all 
        royalties attributable to an oil and gas well located on 
        Federal land as of the date of conveyance.
            (3) Upon receipt of any funds attributable to the reserved 
        wellbore interest of the United States, the State shall pay the 
        Secretary all such amounts in accordance with paragraph (4).
            (4)(A) Any amounts due under paragraph (2) shall be paid by 
        the State to the United States not less than quarterly.
            (B) The State may deduct an administrative fee of three per 
        cent from all payments due to the United States under paragraph 
        (2).
            (5) The reserved wellbore interests of the United States in 
        oil and gas under this section shall automatically terminate on 
        the date that is 10 years after the enactment of this Act.
            (6) The United States shall share all revenue received with 
        respect to its reserved wellbore mineral interest in oil and 
        gas with the State of Utah in accordance with section 35(a) of 
        the Mineral Leasing Act (30 U.S.C. 191(a)).
    (g) Appurtenant Water Rights.--Any conveyance of a parcel of 
Federal land or non-Federal land under this title shall include the 
conveyance of water rights appurtenant to the parcel conveyed.
    (h) Conveyance of Parcels in Stages.--Parcels of Federal land and 
non-Federal land may be exchanged in phases as mutually determined by 
the Secretary and the State.

SEC. 104. WITHDRAWAL OF FEDERAL LANDS PRIOR TO EXCHANGE.

    Subject to valid existing rights, during the period beginning on 
the date of enactment of this Act and ending on the date on which the 
Federal land is conveyed, the Federal land is withdrawn from mineral 
location, entry or patent under the mining laws, from leasing and entry 
under the mineral leasing laws, and from mineral material disposal.

SEC. 105. NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ACT OF 1969 AND FEDERAL LAND 
              POLICY AND MANAGEMENT ACT OF 1976 COMPLIANCE.

    (a) Public Interest.--The land exchange authorized and directed by 
this title is in the public interest.
    (b) Scoping and Analysis.--Notwithstanding any other law, in 
preparing an environmental assessment or environmental impact statement 
required under section 102 of the National Environmental Policy Act of 
1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332) with respect to the land exchange contemplated by 
this title--
            (1) the Secretary is not required to identify any actions 
        other than the proposed action and the no action alternative; 
        and
            (2) the Secretary is not required to analyze the 
        environmental effects of alternative conveyances or actions 
        other than the offer submitted by the State under subsection 
        103(a).
    (c) Presumption of Plan Adequacy.--Conveyances of Federal land to 
the State in accordance with this title are presumed to comply with any 
land use plan enacted under section 202 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712).

SEC. 106. STATUS AND MANAGEMENT OF LAND AFTER EXCHANGE.

    (a) Administration of Non-Federal Land.--In accordance with section 
206(c) of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 
1716(c)), the non-Federal land acquired by the United States under this 
title shall become part of, and be managed as part of, the Federal 
administrative unit or area in which the land is located.
    (b) Grazing Permits.--
            (1) If land conveyed under this title is subject to a 
        lease, permit, or contract for the grazing of domestic 
        livestock in effect on the date of acquisition, the entity 
        acquiring the land shall allow the grazing to continue for the 
        remainder of the term of the lease, permit, or contract, 
        subject to the related terms and conditions of user agreements, 
        including permitted stocking rates, grazing fee levels, access 
        rights, and ownership and use of range improvements.
            (2) To the extent allowed by Federal or State law, on 
        expiration of any grazing lease, permit, or contract described 
        in paragraph (1), the holder of the lease, permit, or contract 
        shall be entitled to a preference right to renew the lease, 
        permit, or contract.
            (3) If land conveyed by the State under this title is used 
        by a grazing permittee or lessee to meet the base property 
        requirements for a Federal grazing permit or lease, the land 
        shall continue to qualify as a base property for the remaining 
        term of the lease or permit and the term of any renewal or 
        extension of the lease or permit.
    (c) Hazardous Materials.--
            (1) The Secretary and the State shall make available for 
        review and inspection any record relating to hazardous 
        materials on the land to be exchanged under this title.
            (2) The costs of remedial actions relating to hazardous 
        materials on land acquired under this title shall be paid by 
        those entities responsible for the costs under applicable law.

SEC. 107. BOOK CLIFFS CONSERVATION AREA.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the mineral estate in the non-
Federal lands acquired by the United States under this title, and the 
existing mineral estate in the Federal land, located in Grand County, 
Utah, as depicted on the Maps as ``Book Cliffs Conservation Area'' is 
withdrawn from location, entry and patent under the mining laws and the 
operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials and geothermal 
leasing laws.

                   TITLE II--GOBLIN VALLEY STATE PARK

SEC. 201. LAND CONVEYANCE.

    At the request of the State of Utah, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall convey, without consideration, the approximately 9,995 acres of 
Bureau of Land Management land identified as ``Utah PLI Goblin Valley 
State Park Map'' on the map entitled Utah PLI Goblin Valley State Park 
Expansion Map and dated June 24, 2016, to the Utah State Parks and 
Recreation Division of the Department of Natural Resources.

SEC. 202. COOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT OF GOBLIN VALLEY.

    (a) In General.--At the request of the State of Utah, in accordance 
with this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall enter into a 
cooperative agreement with the State for the management of the Federal 
land described in subsection (b) which shall be known as the ``Goblin 
Valley Cooperative Management Area''.
    (b) Description of Land.--The area subject to the cooperative 
agreement is Federal land managed by the Bureau of Land Management in 
Emery County, Utah, comprising approximately 152,678 acres, identified 
as ``Goblin Valley Cooperative Management Area'' on the map entitled 
Utah PLI Goblin Valley State Park Map and dated June 24, 2016.
    (c) Purpose.--The purpose of the Goblin Valley Cooperative 
Management Area is to promote outdoor recreation, such as off-highway 
vehicle use, mountain biking, rock climbing, and hiking.
    (d) Terms.--The cooperative agreement shall--
            (1) clarify the roles, responsibilities, and limitations, 
        of the Secretary of the Interior and the State of Utah with 
        regard to recreation management within the Goblin Valley 
        Cooperative Management Area;
            (2) extend only to recreational activities, including off-
        highway vehicle and non-off-highway vehicle use, within the 
        Goblin Valley Cooperative Management Area, and shall not affect 
        other land management within the Goblin Valley Cooperative 
        Management Area, or recreational activities outside the Goblin 
        Valley Cooperative Management Area;
            (3) require that recreational activities within the Goblin 
        Valley Cooperative Management Area shall continue to be managed 
        in accordance with--
                    (A) the San Rafael Swell National Conservation Area 
                and Crack Canyon Wilderness established by this title; 
                and
                    (B) applicable Federal laws;
            (4) require new route and trail construction for motorized 
        and non-motorized use to further recreational opportunities and 
        minimize resource conflict;
            (5) address the establishment, distribution, and uses of, 
        any revenues generated by recreational activities (including 
        entrance fees) within the Goblin Valley Cooperative Management 
        Area; and
            (6) specify that the State agency administering the Goblin 
        Valley Cooperative Management Area shall be the Utah State 
        Parks and Recreation Division of the Department of Natural 
        Resources.

                  TITLE III--PRICE CANYON STATE FOREST

SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Maps.--The term ``Map'' means the map entitled Utah PLI 
        Price Canyon State Forest Map and dated July 1, 2016.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        13,321 acres identified as ``BLM Lands Proposed for Transfer to 
        State Sovereign Land'' located in Carbon County, Utah, as 
        generally depicted on the Map.
            (3) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the 14,939 acres identified on the Map as ``State Sovereign 
        Land Proposed for Transfer to BLM'' located in Grand and San 
        Juan Counties, Utah, as generally depicted on the Map.
            (4) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means the State of Utah's 
        Division of Forestry, Fire, and State Lands.

SEC. 302. EXCHANGE OF LAND.

    (a) Purpose.--It is the purpose of this title to consolidate 
intermingled State sovereign lands in an area of Carbon County, Utah, 
to create the State of Utah's first State Forest.
    (b) Conveyance.--If the State offers to convey to the United States 
title to the non-Federal land, the Secretary shall--
            (1) accept the offer; and
            (2) on receipt of the right, title, and interest of the 
        State in and to the non-Federal land, convey to the State all 
        right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the 
        Federal land.
    (c) Valid Existing Rights.--The exchange authorized under 
subsection (a) shall be subject to valid existing rights.
    (d) Title Approval.--Title to the Federal land and non-Federal land 
to be exchanged under this section shall be in a form acceptable to the 
Secretary and the State.

SEC. 303. LIVESTOCK GRAZING.

    For lands acquired by the State under this title in which grazing 
is established before the date of enactment of this Act, the grazing of 
livestock shall continue at levels existing as of January 1, 2016.

                   TITLE IV--DEER LODGE LAND EXCHANGE

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Association.--The term ``Association'' means the Deer 
        Lodge Homeowners Association.
            (2) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means the 
        approximately 157 acres of National Forest System land in 
        Daggett County, Utah, identified as ``Deer Lodge Cabin Site'' 
        on the map.
            (3) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Utah 
        PLI Deer Lodge Land Exchange Map'' and dated June 24, 2016.
            (4) Non-federal land.--The term ``non-Federal land'' means 
        the parcel of approximately 77 acres of private land located in 
        Uintah County, Utah, and identified as ``Land to Be Acquired by 
        USFS'' on the map.
            (5) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Agriculture.

SEC. 402. LAND EXCHANGE.

    (a) Conveyance of Land.--No later than two years after enactment of 
this title, if the Association offers to convey to the United States 
all right, title, and interest of the Association in and to the non-
Federal land, the Secretary shall convey to the Association, without 
consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in 
and to the Federal land, subject to valid existing rights.
    (b) Compliance With Existing Law.--Except as otherwise provided in 
this title, the Secretary shall carry out the land exchange under this 
title in accordance with section 206 of the Federal Land Policy and 
Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1716).
    (c) Title.--As a condition of the land exchange under this title, 
title to the non-Federal land to be acquired by the Secretary shall be 
acceptable to the Secretary.
    (d) Condition.--As a condition of the land exchange under this 
title, the Association shall agree to retain as undeveloped open space 
the approximately 40 acres of meadow area identified as ``Open Space'' 
as generally depicted on the map.

                    TITLE V--SCOFIELD LAND TRANSFER

SEC. 501. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Scofield Land Transfer Act''.

SEC. 502. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Carbon county.--The term ``Carbon County'' means Carbon 
        County, Utah, within which the Scofield Reservoir property is 
        located.
            (2) Claimant.--The term ``claimant'' means any person or 
        entity (or a successor in interest to a person or entity) that, 
        according to the records in the office of the Recorder for 
        Carbon County, as of the date of enactment of this Act, claims 
        title to, or an interest in, the Federal land.
            (3) Federal land.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``Federal land'' means 
                the land acquired by Price River Water Conservation 
                District and transferred to the United States for use 
                in the construction and operation of the Scofield Dam 
                and Reservoir located between the normal water surface 
                elevation and the property boundary elevation in the 
                Scofield Reservoir basin.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``Federal land'' does not 
                include--
                            (i) any mineral or subsurface rights to the 
                        land described in subparagraph (A); or
                            (ii) the 205 acres of land adjoining the 
                        Scofield Reservoir, as adjudicated in the case 
                        styled United States v. Dunn (557 F.3d 1165 
                        (10th Cir. 2009)).
            (4) Flood surcharge elevation.--The term ``flood surcharge 
        elevation'' means the elevation of 7640.3 in the North American 
        Vertical Datum of 1988, which corresponds to the elevation of 
        the crest of Scofield Dam.
            (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Scofield Reservoir 
        Fund established by section 503(d)(9)(A).
            (6) Life estate.--The term ``life estate'' means--
                    (A) if the claimant is a person, an interest of the 
                claimant in the Federal land that will revert to the 
                United States on the date of the death of the claimant; 
                and
                    (B) if the claimant is an entity, an interest in 
                the Federal land of a person designated by the claimant 
                that will revert to the United States on the date of 
                the death of the designated person.
            (7) Normal water surface elevation.--The term ``normal 
        water surface elevation'' means the contour elevation of 7621.8 
        in the North American Vertical Datum of 1988, which corresponds 
        to the elevation of the crest of the spillway of Scofield Dam.
            (8) Property boundary elevation.--The term ``property 
        boundary elevation'' means the contour elevation 7630, as 
        surveyed by McGonagle and Ulrich, Land Surveyors, in 1926, 
        which was transmuted to the current elevation of 7638.9 in the 
        North American Vertical Datum of 1988 and which corresponds to 
        1.4 vertical feet below the crest of Scofield Dam.
            (9) Roads.--The term ``Roads'' means the streets, improved 
        and unimproved, as in existence on the date of enactment of 
        this Act, that--
                    (A) are located on the Federal land;
                    (B) are intended for public access via motorized 
                vehicle to the Federal land claims of the claimants; 
                and
                    (C) extend to the shoreline of Scofield Reservoir.
            (10) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (11) Structure.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``structure'' means any 
                improvement located on the property of a claimant, as 
                in existence on the date of enactment of this Act, 
                including--
                            (i) a residence;
                            (ii) a shed;
                            (iii) a workshop;
                            (iv) a garage;
                            (v) a carport;
                            (vi) a deck;
                            (vii) a boathouse; or
                            (viii) an incidental building.
                    (B) Inclusion.--The term ``structure'' includes any 
                infrastructure associated with a residence that is not 
                owned by a public or private utility, including water, 
                power, sewer, and improvements to Roads.

SEC. 503. CONVEYANCE OF SCOFIELD PROJECT LAND.

    (a) Survey.--
            (1) In general.--To facilitate the conveyance of the 
        Federal land under this title, it shall be the responsibility 
        of Carbon County--
                    (A) to enter into an agreement with the Secretary 
                to pay the costs associated with a full physical and 
                title survey of the Federal land in order to delineate 
                the boundaries associated with the Federal land, 
                Federal easements, or other Federal interests in land; 
                and
                    (B) subject to paragraph (2), to initiate and 
                complete a full physical survey of the Roads and the 
                parcels located within the Federal land that are 
                eligible to be conveyed to the claimants, and, in any 
                case in which a land description or record of ownership 
                in any record of Carbon County conflicts with a claim 
                of a claimant with regard to an existing physical 
                feature or facility, propose boundaries and land 
                descriptions to resolve the dispute.
            (2) Unresolved disputes.--
                    (A) In general.--If a claim to a parcel or portion 
                of a parcel of Federal land cannot be resolved in 
                accordance with the applicable land description in the 
                records of Carbon County by the applicable deadline for 
                an election under subsection (d)(6), the claimant shall 
                stipulate to, accept, and submit to the Secretary the 
                land description developed by Carbon County to resolve 
                the dispute in order to meet the election requirement 
                of subsection (d)(6) by not later than 180 days after 
                that deadline.
                    (B) Failure to stipulate and accept.--If a claimant 
                fails to stipulate to and accept the land description 
                of Carbon County by the date described in subparagraph 
                (A), the authority to convey the affected parcel or 
                portion of a parcel of Federal land pursuant to this 
                section shall be terminated with respect to the 
                disputed claim.
    (b) Appraisal.--
            (1) In general.--As a condition of the conveyance under 
        this section, Carbon County shall enter into an agreement with 
        the Secretary to pay the costs associated with an appraisal of 
        the fair market value of each property interest requested by a 
        claimant relating to the conveyance by the Secretary under this 
        title.
            (2) Determination of fair market value.--The fair market 
        value of a property interest under paragraph (1) shall be 
        determined by the Secretary in accordance with the Uniform 
        Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions and the 
        Uniform Standards of Professional Appraisal Practices.
    (c) Notification.--It shall be the responsibility of Carbon County 
to notify each claimant of any trespass or encroachment by the 
applicable claimant on the Federal land, including the existence of any 
trespassing or encroaching structure of the claimant.
    (d) Authorization To Convey Federal Land.--
            (1) In general.--To resolve the issues of trespass and 
        encroachment on the Federal land by the claimants, the 
        Secretary may, in accordance with paragraphs (5) and (6)--
                    (A) on an election by a claimant--
                            (i) subject to paragraph (2), convey to the 
                        claimant fee interest in the claimed portion of 
                        the Federal land that is located above the 
                        normal water surface elevation, as determined 
                        by the results of the survey required under 
                        subsection (a), subject to all valid rights-of-
                        way, licenses, and easements in existence on 
                        the date of enactment of this Act; or
                            (ii) subject to paragraph (3), grant to the 
                        claimant a life estate permitting the continued 
                        occupation of the claimed portion of the 
                        Federal land above the normal water surface 
                        elevation, as determined by the results of the 
                        survey required under subsection (a), subject 
                        to all valid rights-of-way, licenses, and 
                        easements in existence on the date of enactment 
                        of this Act; or
                    (B) subject to paragraph (4), on an election by 
                Carbon County, convey to Carbon County fee interest in 
                the Roads, as determined by the survey required under 
                subsection (a), subject to all valid rights-of-way, 
                licenses, and easements in existence on the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (2) Conveyance requirements.--A conveyance under paragraph 
        (1)(A)(i) shall be subject to--
                    (A) the claimant paying to the Secretary the fair 
                market value of the fee interest in the claimed portion 
                of the Federal land, as determined by the Secretary 
                under subsection (b), exclusive of the value of any 
                structures;
                    (B) provisions under which the claimant shall agree 
                to indemnify and hold harmless the United States for 
                all claims by the claimant or others arising from--
                            (i) the design, construction, operation, 
                        maintenance, or replacement of the Scofield Dam 
                        and Reservoir;
                            (ii) the survey of claims, description of 
                        claims, delineation of boundaries, conveyance 
                        documents, conveyance process, and recording of 
                        deeds associated with the conveyance; and
                            (iii) any damages associated with any 
                        structure or chattel of the claimant that may 
                        be displaced in a flood event;
                    (C) the United States retaining a flood easement as 
                well as an access easement for purposes of monitoring 
                and enforcing the requirements of subparagraph (D) with 
                respect to the entire portion of Federal land conveyed; 
                and
                    (D) deed restrictions requiring that--
                            (i) to prevent any structure on the portion 
                        of the Federal land conveyed from being 
                        displaced during a flood event, the claimant 
                        shall--
                                    (I) secure or tie down all existing 
                                structures; and
                                    (II) if replacing or rebuilding 
                                such a structure, limit the replacement 
                                or rebuilding to the number and type of 
                                structures in existence on the date of 
                                enactment of this Act; and
                            (ii) all activities carried out by the 
                        claimant under clause (i) with respect to a 
                        structure be carried out in accordance with 
                        applicable standards for structures that may be 
                        submerged, flooded, or inundated, as contained 
                        in--
                                    (I) the International Building Code 
                                (as adopted by Utah Administrative Code 
                                R156-56); or
                                    (II) any other building code or 
                                engineering standard that is--
                                            (aa) similar to the 
                                        International Building Code;
                                            (bb) widely used; and
                                            (cc) nationally recognized.
            (3) Life estate requirements.--A life estate granted under 
        paragraph (1)(A)(ii) shall be subject to--
                    (A) the claimant paying to the Secretary the fair 
                market value of the life estate on the claimed portion 
                of the Federal land, as determined by the Secretary 
                under subsection (b), but excluding the value of any 
                structures;
                    (B) provisions under which the claimant agrees to 
                indemnify and hold harmless the United States for all 
                claims by the claimant or others arising from--
                            (i) the design, construction, operation, 
                        maintenance, or replacement of the Scofield Dam 
                        and Reservoir;
                            (ii) the survey of claims, description of 
                        claims, delineation of boundaries, conveyance 
                        documents, conveyance process, and recording of 
                        deeds associated with the conveyance; and
                            (iii) any damages associated with any 
                        structure or chattel of the claimant that may 
                        be displaced in a flood event; and
                    (C) restrictions equivalent to the deed 
                restrictions described in clauses (i) and (ii) of 
                paragraph (2)(D), as applicable.
            (4) Conveyance of roads requirements.--A conveyance under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall be subject to--
                    (A) Carbon County paying to the Secretary a sum 
                determined to be acceptable by the Secretary;
                    (B) provisions under which Carbon County shall 
                agree to indemnify and hold harmless the United States 
                for all claims by Carbon County or others arising 
                from--
                            (i) the design, construction, operation, 
                        maintenance, or replacement of the Scofield Dam 
                        and Reservoir;
                            (ii) the survey of claims, description of 
                        claims, delineation of boundaries, conveyance 
                        documents, conveyance process, and recording of 
                        deeds associated with the conveyance; and
                            (iii) any damages associated with 
                        structures or chattel of Carbon County that may 
                        be displaced in a flood event;
                    (C) the United States retaining a flood easement as 
                well as an access easement for purposes of monitoring 
                and enforcing the requirements of subparagraph (D) with 
                respect to the entire portion of the Roads conveyed; 
                and
                    (D) restrictions equivalent to the deed 
                restrictions described in clauses (i) and (ii) of 
                paragraph (2)(D), as applicable.
            (5) Compliance with environmental laws.--
                    (A) In general.--Before conveying the Federal land 
                under paragraph (1)(A)(i) or the Roads under paragraph 
                (1)(B) or granting a life estate under paragraph 
                (1)(A)(ii), the Secretary shall comply with all 
                applicable requirements under--
                            (i) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.);
                            (ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1531 et seq.); and
                            (iii) any other applicable law.
                    (B) Effect.--Nothing in this title modifies or 
                alters any obligations under--
                            (i) the National Environmental Policy Act 
                        of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.); or
                            (ii) the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
                        U.S.C. 1531 et seq.).
                    (C) Costs.--Before the initiation of any conveyance 
                under this title, Carbon County shall pay to the 
                Secretary an amount equal to the costs associated with 
                achieving environmental compliance under this 
                paragraph.
            (6) Deadline for election.--
                    (A) Claimants.--Not later than 5 years after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, each claimant shall 
                notify the Secretary in writing whether the claimant 
                elects to receive--
                            (i) a fee interest in the claimed portion 
                        of the Federal land, in accordance with 
                        paragraph (1)(A)(i); or
                            (ii) a life estate in the claimed portion 
                        of the Federal land, in accordance with 
                        paragraph (1)(A)(ii).
                    (B) Carbon county.--Not later than 3 years after 
                the date of enactment of this Act, Carbon County shall 
                notify the Secretary in writing whether Carbon County 
                elects to receive a fee interest in the Roads, in 
                accordance with paragraph (1)(B).
            (7) Failure to notify secretary or complete transfer.--
                    (A) Notice of election.--If a claimant fails to 
                submit to the Secretary a notice of an election in 
                accordance with paragraph (6)(A), any future claim by 
                the claimant with respect to the Federal land shall be 
                terminated.
                    (B) Transfer.--
                            (i) Claimants.--If, due to a failure by the 
                        claimant to act in furtherance of the transfer 
                        of fee interest or life estate under this 
                        section, no transfer of the claimed Federal 
                        Land has been recorded with the Recorder of 
                        Carbon County by the date that is 7 years after 
                        the date of enactment of this Act, any claim by 
                        the claimant with respect to the Federal land 
                        shall be terminated.
                            (ii) Carbon county.--If, due to a failure 
                        by Carbon County to act in furtherance of the 
                        transfer of fee interest, no transfer of the 
                        Roads has been recorded with the Recorder of 
                        Carbon County by the date that is 5 years after 
                        the date of enactment of this Act, the 
                        authority of the Secretary to convey the 
                        interest in the Roads shall be terminated.
                    (C) Quiet title.--On extinguishment of a claim 
                under subparagraph (A) or (B), the Secretary shall take 
                such action as is necessary to quiet title to the 
                applicable portion of the Federal land, including 
                removal of persons, entities, structures, and materials 
                encumbering the applicable portion of the Federal land.
            (8) Payments in lieu of taxes.--Any Federal land 
        transferred to a claimant in fee under paragraph (1)(A)(i) or 
        to Carbon County under paragraph (1)(B) shall not be included 
        or taken into consideration in the allocation of any payment in 
        lieu of taxes under chapter 69 of title 31, United States Code.
            (9) Trust fund.--
                    (A) Establishment.--There is established in the 
                Treasury of the United States a fund, to be known as 
                the ``Scofield Reservoir Fund'', to be administered by 
                the Secretary and made available, without fiscal year 
                limitation, for--
                            (i) monitoring and enforcing the 
                        requirements of paragraphs (2)(C) and (4)(C) 
                        regarding maintaining access to, and 
                        eliminating encroachment and private exclusive 
                        use of, the Federal land surrounding the 
                        Scofield Reservoir; and
                            (ii) providing enhanced public recreational 
                        opportunities at Scofield Reservoir.
                    (B) Transfers to fund.--There shall be deposited in 
                the Fund any amounts received as consideration for--
                            (i) a conveyance under subparagraph (A)(i) 
                        or (B) of paragraph (1); or
                            (ii) the granting of a life estate under 
                        paragraph (1)(A)(ii).

                       TITLE VI--LAND CONVEYANCES

SEC. 601. LAND CONVEYANCES.

    (a) In General.--As outlined in the paragraphs below, if requested 
by the specified entity, the Secretary of the Interior or the Secretary 
of Agriculture, as appropriate, shall convey the following Federal land 
to that entity without consideration:
            (1) Canyonlands fields airport.--The approximately 561 
        acres of land depicted as ``Canyonlands Fields Airport'', on 
        the map entitled Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map and dated June 
        30, 2016, to Grand County, Utah, for use as an airport.
            (2) Moab tailings project.--Upon completion of the Moab 
        Uranium Mill Tailings Remedial Action Project, the 
        approximately 474 acres of land depicted as ``UMTRA 
        Conveyance'', on the map entitled Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map 
        and dated June 30, 2016, shall be conveyed to Grand County, 
        Utah.
            (3) Huntington airport expansion.--The approximately 1,398 
        acres generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Huntington 
        Airport'', to Emery County, Utah, for expansion of the 
        Huntington Municipal Airport.
            (4) Emery county recreation area.--The approximately 479 
        acres generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Emery County 
        Recreation Area'', to Emery County, Utah, for public 
        recreational purposes.
            (5) Emery county sheriffs substation.--The approximately 
        644 acres generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Emery County 
        Sheriffs Substation'', to Emery County, Utah, for a substation 
        for the Emery County Sheriff's Office.
            (6) Blanding outdoor recreation area.--The approximately 
        5,197 acres of land depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Blanding Outdoor 
        Recreation Area'', to Blanding City, Utah, for use as an 
        outdoor recreation area.
            (7) Cal black airport.--The approximately 1,917 acres 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Cal Black 
        Airport'', to San Juan County, Utah, for a municipal airport.
            (8) Bluff airport.--The approximately 403 acres generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map and 
        dated June 30, 2016, as ``Bluff Airport'', to San Juan County, 
        Utah, for a municipal airport.
            (9) Monticello water storage and treatment plant.--The 
        approximately 165 acres generally depicted on the map entitled 
        Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as 
        ``Monticello Water Storage and Treatment Plant'', to Monticello 
        City, Utah, for a water storage and treatment plant.
            (10) Blanding shooting range.--The approximately 21 acres 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Blanding Shooting 
        Range'', to San Juan County, Utah, for a public shooting range.
            (11) Park city conveyance i.--The approximately 2.5 acres 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Park City 
        Conveyance I'', to Park City, Utah, for public recreation and 
        open space.
            (12) Park city conveyance ii.--The approximately 1 acre 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Park City 
        Conveyance II'', to Park City, Utah, for public recreation and 
        open space.
            (13) Lisbon valley.--The approximately 398 acres generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map and 
        dated June 30, 2016, as ``Lisbon Valley'', to Utah State 
        University for education and research.
            (14) Wellington.--The approximately 645 acres generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map and 
        dated June 30, 2016, as ``Wellington'', to Utah State 
        University for education and research.
            (15) Range creek research station expansion.--The 
        approximately 1,663 acres depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI 
        Land Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Range Creek 
        Research Station Expansion'', to the University of Utah for 
        education and research.
            (16) Ashley spring.--The approximately 1,103 acres 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Ashley Spring'', 
        to Uintah County, Utah, for use as open space and for watershed 
        protection and drinking water development.
            (17) Seep ridge utility corridor.--The approximately 2,633 
        acres in Uintah County generally depicted on the map entitled 
        Utah PLI Land Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as 
        ``Seep Ridge Utility Corridor'', to the State of Utah, for use 
        as rights-of-way for public utilities.
            (18) Bluff river recreation area.--The approximately 177 
        acres generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Bluff River 
        Recreation Area'', to Bluff Service Area, for use as recreation 
        and municipal facilities.
            (19) Emery information center.--The approximately 80 acres 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Emery County 
        Information Center'', to Emery County, Utah, for an information 
        and visitor center to promote public lands.
            (20) Summit county conveyance.--The approximately __ acres 
        generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Land 
        Conveyances Map and dated June 30, 2016, as ``Summit 
        Conveyance'', to Summit County, Utah, for public recreation and 
        open space.
    (b) Map and Legal Descriptions.--Not later than two years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the relevant Secretary shall file a map 
and legal description of each of the land conveyances authorized in 
subsection (a) with the Committee on Natural Resources.

                       TITLE VII--LAND DISPOSALS

SEC. 701. LAND DISPOSALS.

    Subject to valid existing rights, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall within two years dispose of Federal lands identified as ``Lands 
for Disposal'' on the map entitled ``Utah PLI Land Disposal Map'' dated 
June 25, 2016.

                      TITLE VIII--RECREATION ZONES

SEC. 801. ESTABLISHMENT.

    (a) Establishment.--Subject to valid existing rights, to enhance 
existing and future recreational opportunities in Grand County, Uintah 
County, and San Juan County, Utah, the following areas are hereby 
established as Recreation Zones:
            (1) Goldbar recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 23,051 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Grand County, as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map 
        dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Goldbar Recreation 
        Zone''.
            (2) Monitor and merrimac recreation zone.--Certain Federal 
        land, comprising approximately 17,371 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Grand County as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 
        30, 2016, to be known as the ``Monitor and Merrimac Recreation 
        Zone''.
            (3) Klondike recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 24,968 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Grand County as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 
        30, 2016, to be known as the ``Klondike Recreation Zone''.
            (4) Big flat recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 25,311 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Grand County as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 
        30, 2016, to be known as the ``Big Flat Recreation Zone''.
            (5) Mineral canyon recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 20,423 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Grand County as generally depicted 
        on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 
        30, 2016, to be known as the ``Mineral Canyon Recreation 
        Zone''.
            (6) Dee pass and utah rims recreation zone.--Certain 
        Federal land, comprising approximately 210,587 acres 
        administered by the Bureau of Land Management in Grand County 
        as generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation 
        Zones Map dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Dee Pass 
        and Utah Rims Recreation Zone''.
            (7) Yellow circle recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 7,436 acres administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management in San Juan County as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Yellow Circle Recreation Zone''.
            (8) Cameo cliffs recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 47,130 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in San Juan County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map 
        dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Cameo Cliffs 
        Recreation Zone''.
            (9) Jensen hills recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 4,849 acres administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map and dated June 
        30, 2016, to be known as the ``Jensen Hills Recreation Zone''.
            (10) Red mountain recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 10,298 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Uintah County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map 
        dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Red Mountain 
        Recreation Zone''.
            (11) Devils hole recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 550 acres administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Devils Hole Recreation Zone''.
            (12) Bourdette draw recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 20,560 acres administered by the 
        Bureau of Land Management in Uintah County as generally 
        depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map 
        dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the ``Bourdette Draw 
        Recreation Zone''.
            (13) Red wash recreation zone.--Certain Federal land, 
        comprising approximately 1,916 acres administered by the Bureau 
        of Land Management in Uintah County as generally depicted on 
        the map entitled Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map dated June 30, 
        2016, to be known as the ``Red Wash Recreation Zone''.

SEC. 802. MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years from the date the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior (hereinafter in 
this title referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall file a map and legal 
description of each of the Recreation Zones established by section 801 
with the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives 
and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.
    (b) Force and Effect.--The maps and legal descriptions submitted 
under this section shall have the same force and effect as if included 
in this title, except that the Secretary may make any minor 
modifications of any clerical or typographical errors in the map or 
legal description and provided that prior to any modifications, 
clerical or typographical changes, these changes are reported to the 
State of Utah and the affected counties.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the maps and legal descriptions 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 803. GOLDBAR RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Goldbar Recreation Zone are to 
promote outdoor recreation (including off-highway vehicle use, mountain 
biking, and hiking), provide for the construction of new non-off-
highway vehicle trails, prevent future energy and mineral development, 
and conserve indigenous plants and animals.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Goldbar 
        Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Goldbar Recreation 
        Zone shall--
                    (A) require coordination and consultation with 
                State and local governments;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including camping, biking, hiking, and off-highway 
                vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-terrain-
                vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) prohibit future mineral development;
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for non-off-highway vehicle use; and
                    (E) conserve indigenous plant and animal species.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary shall manage existing designated routes for off-
        highway and motorized vehicles in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process; and
                    (C) allows for the construction of new non-off-
                highway vehicle trails.
            (4) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        public land within the Goldbar Recreation Zone, including any 
        land or interest in land that is acquired by the United States 
        within the Goldbar Recreation Zone after the date of enactment 
        of this Act, is withdrawn from--
                    (A) entry, appropriation or disposal under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 804. MONITOR AND MERRIMAC RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Monitor and Merrimac Recreation 
Zone are to promote outdoor recreation (including off-highway vehicle 
use, mountain biking, rock climbing, and hiking), provide for the 
construction of new off-highway vehicle and non-off-highway vehicle 
trails and routes, and to prevent future mineral development.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Monitor and 
Merrimac Recreation Zone in accordance with--
            (1) this title;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) other applicable laws.
    (c) Uses.--Uses and management of the Monitor and Merrimac 
Recreation Zone shall--
            (1) coordinate and consult with State and local government;
            (2) provide for recreational opportunities including, 
        biking, hiking, rock climbing and off-highway vehicle use 
        (including motorcycling, all-terrain-vehicle riding, and four-
        wheeling);
            (3) prohibit future mineral and energy leasing; and
            (4) provide for new route and trail construction for off-
        highway vehicle and non-off-highway vehicle use.
    (d) Management of Off-Highway Vehicle and Motorized Vehicles.--The 
Secretary shall manage existing designated off-highway vehicle routes 
in a manner that--
            (1) is consistent with off-highway and motorized vehicle 
        use of the routes designated in the applicable travel 
        management plan;
            (2) allows for adjustment to the travel management plan 
        within the regular amendment process; and
            (3) allows for the construction of new off-highway and non-
        off-highway vehicle trails.
    (e) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all public land 
within the Monitor and Merrimac Recreation Zone, including any land or 
interest in land that is acquired by the United States within the 
Monitor and Merrimac Recreation Zone after the date of enactment of 
this Act, is withdrawn from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 805. KLONDIKE RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Klondike Recreation Zone are to 
promote outdoor recreation (including off-highway vehicle use, mountain 
biking, rock climbing, and hiking), provide for the construction of new 
non-off-highway vehicle trails, and to prevent future mineral 
development.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Klondike 
Recreation Zone in accordance with--
            (1) this title;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) other applicable laws.
    (c) Uses.--Uses and management of the Klondike Recreation Zone 
shall--
            (1) coordinate and consult with State and local government;
            (2) provide for recreational opportunities including 
        biking, hiking, rock climbing, and off-highway vehicle use 
        (including motorcycling, all-terrain-vehicle riding and four-
        wheeling);
            (3) prohibit future mineral and energy leasing;
            (4) provide for new route and trail construction for off-
        highway and non-off-highway vehicle use; and
            (5) provide managerial flexibility to route off-highway 
        vehicle trails in a way that minimizes conflict with non-off-
        highway vehicle trails.
    (d) Management of Off-Highway Vehicle and Motorized Vehicles.--The 
Secretary shall manage existing designated routes for off-highway 
vehicles and motorized vehicles in a manner that--
            (1) is consistent with off-highway and motorized vehicle 
        use of the routes designated in the applicable travel 
        management plan;
            (2) allows for adjustment to the travel management plan 
        within the regular amendment process; and
            (3) allows for the construction of new non-off-highway 
        vehicle trails.
    (e) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all public land 
within the Klondike Recreation Zone, including any land or interest in 
land that is acquired by the United States within the Klondike 
Recreation Zone after the date of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn 
from--
            (1) entry, appropriation or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral materials, 
        and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 806. BIG FLAT RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Big Flat Recreation Zone are to 
promote outdoor recreation (including off-highway vehicle use, mountain 
biking, rock climbing and hiking), provide for new off-highway vehicle 
route construction and promote mineral development.
    (b) Administration.--The Secretary shall administer the Big Flat 
Recreation Zone in accordance with--
            (1) this title;
            (2) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
            (3) other applicable laws.
    (c) Uses.--Uses and management of the Big Flat Recreation Zone 
shall--
            (1) coordinate and consult with State and local government;
            (2) provide for recreational opportunities including rock 
        climbing, biking, hiking, off-highway vehicle use (including 
        motorcycling, all-terrain-vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
            (3) provide for future mineral leasing with no surface 
        occupancy stipulations;
            (4) allow the continuation of existing mineral leasing; and
            (5) provide for new route and trail construction for off-
        highway vehicle and non-off-highway vehicle use.
    (d) Management of Off-Highway and Motorized Vehicles.--The 
Secretary shall manage existing designated routes for off-highway and 
motorized vehicles in a manner that--
            (1) is consistent with off-highway and motorized vehicle 
        use of the routes designated in the applicable travel 
        management plan;
            (2) allows for adjustment to the travel management plan 
        within the regular amendment process; and
            (3) allows for the construction of new non-off-highway 
        vehicle trails.

SEC. 807. MINERAL CANYON RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Mineral Canyon Recreation Zone 
are to promote non-motorized outdoor recreation (including mountain 
biking, rock climbing, and hiking), provide for new non-motorized route 
construction, prevent future mineral development, maintain boating 
access, maintain airstrip access, and maintain access and use of 
country borrow areas for unprocessed gravel.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Mineral 
        Canyon Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Mineral Canyon 
        Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for non-motorized recreational 
                opportunities including biking and hiking;
                    (C) prevent future mineral leasing or claims;
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for non-motorized vehicle use;
                    (E) maintain access for boating;
                    (F) maintain access for aircraft to the existing 
                airstrip; and
                    (G) maintain access to and use of the county borrow 
                areas for unprocessed gravel.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary shall manage existing designated routes for off-
        highway and motorized vehicles in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process; and
                    (C) allows for the construction of new non-off-
                highway vehicle trails.
            (4) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, all 
        public land within the Mineral Canyon Recreation Zone, 
        including any land or interest in land that is acquired by the 
        United States within the Mineral Canyon Recreation Zone after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, is withdrawn from--
                    (A) entry, appropriation or disposal under the 
                public land laws;
                    (B) location, entry, and patent under the mining 
                laws; and
                    (C) operation of the mineral leasing, mineral 
                materials, and geothermal leasing laws.

SEC. 808. DEE PASS AND UTAH RIMS RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Dee Pass and Utah Rims 
Recreation Zone are to promote off-highway vehicle recreation, provide 
for the construction of new off-highway vehicle trails and non-
motorized trails, and allow mineral development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Dee 
        Pass and Utah Rims Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Dee Pass and Utah 
        Rims Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including rock climbing, biking, hiking, and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) provide future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
                outdoor recreation; and
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for motorized and non-motorized use.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary shall manage existing designated routes for off-
        highway and motorized vehicles in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process; and
                    (C) allows for the construction of new off-highway 
                and non-off-highway vehicle trails.
            (4) White wash cross country travel area.--The 
        approximately ____acres identified as the ``White Wash Cross 
        Country Travel Area'', located within the Dee Pass Recreation 
        Zone, on the map entitled ``Utah PLI Recreation Zones Map'' and 
        dated June 30, 2016, is open to cross country off-highway 
        vehicle travel.

SEC. 809. YELLOW CIRCLE AND CAMEO CLIFFS RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Yellow Circle Recreation Zone 
and Cameo Cliffs Recreation Zone are to promote off-highway vehicle 
use, provide for the construction of new off-highway vehicle and non-
motorized trails, and allow energy and mineral leasing and development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Yellow 
        Circle Recreation Zone and Cameo Cliffs Recreation Zone in 
        accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (C) other applicable laws; and
                    (D) San Juan County Public Entry and Access Rights.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Yellow Circle 
        Recreation Zone and Cameo Cliffs Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including rock climbing, biking, hiking, and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain-vehicle riding, four-wheeling);
                    (C) provide future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that considers impacts to 
                outdoor recreation; and
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for off-highway vehicle and non-motorized use.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary shall manage existing designated off-highway and 
        motorized vehicle routes in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process; and
                    (C) allows for the construction of new non-off-
                highway vehicle trails.

SEC. 810. JENSEN HILLS RECREATION ZONE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Jensen Hills Recreation Zone is 
to promote off-highway vehicle recreation, provide for the construction 
of new off-highway vehicle trails and non-motorized trails, and to 
promote energy and mineral leasing and development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Jensen 
        Hills Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws;
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Jensen Hills 
        Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including, biking, hiking, rock climbing and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) allow future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
                outdoor recreation;
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for off-highway vehicle and non-motorized use to 
                further recreational opportunities; and
                    (E) allow cross country off-highway vehicle travel 
                where authorized under the applicable travel management 
                plan.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary shall manage existing designated routes in a manner 
        that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process;
                    (C) allows for the construction of new non-off-
                highway vehicle trails; and
                    (D) allows for continued cross country off-highway 
                vehicle travel where authorized under the travel 
                management plan.

SEC. 811. RED MOUNTAIN RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Red Mountain Recreation Zone is 
to promote off-highway vehicle recreation, provide for the construction 
of new off-highway vehicle trails and non-motorized trails, and to 
promote energy and mineral leasing and development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall administer the Red 
        Mountain Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Red Mountain 
        Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including, biking, hiking, rock climbing and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) allow future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
                outdoor recreation and sensitive plant and animal 
                species; and
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for off-highway vehicle and non-motorized use.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary shall manage existing designated routes in a manner 
        that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process; and
                    (C) allows for the construction of new off-highway 
                vehicle and non-motorized routes and trails.

SEC. 812. DEVILS HOLE RECREATION ZONE MANAGEMENT.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Devils Hole Recreation Zone is 
to promote off-highway vehicle recreation, the construction of new off-
highway vehicle trails and non-motorized trails and routes, and to 
promote energy and mineral leasing and development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        administer the Devils Hole Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Devils Hole 
        Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including, biking, hiking, rock climbing and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) allows future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that considers impacts to 
                outdoor recreation;
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for off-highway vehicle and non-motorized use; and
                    (E) allows cross country off-highway vehicle travel 
                where authorized by the applicable travel management 
                plan.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary of the Interior shall manage existing designated 
        routes in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process;
                    (C) allows for the construction of new off-highway 
                vehicle and non-motorized trails; and
                    (D) allows for continued cross country off-highway 
                vehicle travel authorized under the applicable travel 
                management plan.

SEC. 813. BOURDETTE DRAW RECREATION ZONE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Bourdette Draw Recreation Zone 
is to promote off-highway vehicle recreation, provide for the 
construction of new off-highway vehicle trails and non-motorized 
trails, and to promote energy and mineral leasing and development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        administer the Bourdette Draw Recreation Zone in accordance 
        with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Bourdette Draw 
        Recreation Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including, biking, hiking, rock climbing and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) allow future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
                outdoor recreation and sensitive plant and animal 
                species;
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for off-highway vehicle and non-motorized use; and
                    (E) allow cross country off-highway vehicle travel 
                authorized under the applicable travel management plan.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary of the Interior shall manage existing designated 
        routes in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process;
                    (C) allows for the construction of new non-off-
                highway vehicle trails; and
                    (D) allows for continued cross country off-highway 
                vehicle travel where authorized under the applicable 
                travel management plan.

SEC. 814. RED WASH RECREATION ZONE ADDITIONAL PROVISIONS.

    (a) Purposes.--The purposes of the Red Wash Recreation Zone is to 
promote off-highway vehicle recreation, provide for the construction of 
new off-highway vehicle trails and non-motorized trails, and to promote 
energy and mineral leasing and development.
    (b) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        administer the Red Wash Recreation Zone in accordance with--
                    (A) this title;
                    (B) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                    (C) other applicable laws.
            (2) Uses.--Uses and management of the Red Wash Recreation 
        Zone shall--
                    (A) coordinate and consult with State and local 
                government;
                    (B) provide for recreational opportunities 
                including, biking, hiking, rock climbing and off-
                highway vehicle use (including motorcycling, all-
                terrain vehicle riding, and four-wheeling);
                    (C) allow future mineral and energy leasing and 
                development in a manner that minimizes impacts to 
                outdoor recreation;
                    (D) provide for new route and trail construction 
                for off-highway vehicle and non-motorized use; and
                    (E) allow cross country off-highway vehicle travel 
                authorized under the applicable travel management plan.
            (3) Management of off-highway and motorized vehicles.--The 
        Secretary of the Interior shall manage existing designated 
        routes in a manner that--
                    (A) is consistent with off-highway and motorized 
                vehicle use of the routes designated in the applicable 
                travel management plan;
                    (B) allows for adjustment to the travel management 
                plan within the regular amendment process;
                    (C) allows for the construction of new non-off-
                highway vehicle trails; and
                    (D) allows for continued cross country off-highway 
                vehicle travel where authorized under the applicable 
                travel management plan.

SEC. 815. HOLE-IN-THE-ROCK TRAIL.

    (a) Establishment of Trail.--Section 5(a) of the National Trails 
System Act (16 U.S.C. 1244(a)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(31) Hole-in-the-rock trail.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The corridor known as the `Hole-
                in-the-Rock Trail' as generally depicted on the map 
                titled `Utah PLI National Conservation Area Map' dated 
                June 30, 2016.
                    ``(B) Purposes and use.--
                            ``(i) The purposes of the National Hole-in-
                        the-Rock Trail is to promote cultural, 
                        recreational, and historic values and promote 
                        motorized and non-motorized recreation.
                            ``(ii) The Hole-in-the-Rock Foundation 
                        shall be a cooperating agency regarding trail 
                        management.
                            ``(iii) The issuance of regulations 
                        regarding group size and fee areas shall be 
                        done in accordance with the cooperating 
                        agencies.
                    ``(C) Management plan.--
                            ``(i) Plan required.--Not later than 2 
                        years after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                        the Secretary of the Interior shall develop a 
                        management plan for the long-term management of 
                        the historic trail.
                            ``(ii) Recommendations and consultation.--
                        The Secretary of the Interior shall prepare the 
                        management plan in consultation and 
                        coordination with local and tribal governments, 
                        the public, and the Public Lands Initiative 
                        Planning and Implementation Advisory Committee 
                        established under Division C of this Act. If 
                        the Secretary of the Interior does not 
                        incorporate recommendations submitted by the 
                        State, local, and tribal governments into the 
                        management plans, the Secretary of the Interior 
                        shall submit a written explanation before the 
                        effective date of the management plan to the 
                        House Committee on Natural Resources and Senate 
                        Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
                        outlining the reasons for rejecting the 
                        recommendations of the State local governments 
                        and tribes.''.

SEC. 816. RECAPTURE CANYON.

    (a) Approval of Right-of-Way.--San Juan County, Utah's application 
for a Title V Right-of-Way, originally submitted to the Bureau of Land 
Management Monticello Field Office in the State of Utah on March 30, 
2006, and later amended on November 13, 2012, is approved.
    (b) Purpose of Right-of-Way.--The purposes of the Title V Right-of-
Way, as stated by the County's application, is to perform routine 
maintenance to existing trails and routes in an effort to encourage 
travel in the canyon to remain on a single established route through 
the canyon that minimizes impacts to the surrounding environment.
    (c) Applicability of Other Laws.--In granting the application, 
compliance with section 306108 of title 54, United States Code, and the 
Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act shall apply to 
the right-of-way to avoid adverse impact to archaeological sites.

SEC. 817. BIG BURRITO NON-MOTORIZED TRAIL.

    The 9.3 mile proposed non-motorized trail within the Sand Flats 
Recreation Area, approved by the Bureau of Land Management Moab Field 
Office on December 18, 2016, and commonly known as the Big Burrito Non-
Motorized Trail, shall not be subject to administrative or judicial 
review.

          TITLE IX--RED ROCK COUNTRY OFF-HIGHWAY VEHICLE TRAIL

SEC. 901. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) County.--The term ``County'' means Grand and San Juan 
        Counties, Utah.
            (2) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.
            (3) Trail.--The term ``Trail'' means the Red Rock Country 
        Off-Highway Vehicle Trail established under section 902.
            (4) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means land 
        owned by the Bureau of Land Management as depicted on the Utah 
        PLI Recreation Plans Map and dated ____.

SEC. 902. DESIGNATION.

            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall designate a trail 
        system in the County--
                    (A) for use by off-highway vehicles; and
                    (B) to be known as the ``Red Rock Country Off-
                Highway Vehicle Trail''.
            (2) Requirements.--In designating the trail, the Secretary 
        shall prioritize a long distance route for off-highway vehicles 
        that is generally depicted on the Utah PLI Recreation Plans Map 
        and dated June 30, 2016, that--
                    (A) connects the Federal land adjacent to Moab, 
                Utah, to the Federal land adjacent to Grand Junction, 
                Colorado, through the Dee Pass and Utah Rims Recreation 
                Zone;
                    (B) connects the Federal land adjacent to Moab, 
                Utah, to the Federal land adjacent to Green River, 
                Utah, through the Dee Pass and Utah Rims Recreation 
                Zone;
                    (C) connects the Federal land adjacent to Moab, 
                Utah, to the Federal land adjacent to Monticello, Utah, 
                through the Cameo Cliffs Recreation Zone;
                    (D) uses existing routes, where feasible, which may 
                include the Kokopelli Trail, the Orange Trail, and 
                Trail 1;
                    (E) minimizes the use of graded roads; and
                    (F) creates a recreational experience that 
                provides--
                            (i) opportunities for scenic vistas;
                            (ii) challenging terrain for off-highway 
                        vehicle travel;
                            (iii) connections to other existing trail 
                        systems or trails;
                            (iv) minimal conflicts between off-highway 
                        vehicle and non-off-highway vehicle users; and
                            (v) off-highway vehicle singletrack and 
                        doubletrack options where feasible.
            (3) Map.--A map that depicts the Trail shall be on file and 
        available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of 
        the Bureau of Land Management.

SEC. 903. MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall manage future designated 
routes on the Trail in a manner that--
            (1) is consistent with section 902; and
            (2) does not interfere with private property or water 
        rights.
    (b) Closure.--The Secretary, in consultation with the State and the 
County, may temporarily close or permanently reroute, subject to 
subparagraph (C), a route on the Trail if the Secretary determines 
that--
            (1) the route is significantly damaging designated critical 
        habitat or cultural resources;
            (2) the route threatens public safety;
            (3) closure of the route is necessary to repair damage to 
        the Trail; or
            (4) closure of the route is necessary to repair resource 
        damage.
    (c) Rerouting.--Portions of the route that are temporarily closed 
may be permanently rerouted by utilizing a previously closed route or 
constructing a new route.
    (d) Notice.--The Secretary shall provide information to the public 
regarding any designated routes on the Trail that are open, have been 
relocated, or are temporarily closed through--
            (1) use of appropriate signage within the Trail; and
            (2) use of the Internet and Web resources.
    (e) No Effect on Non-Federal Land or Interests in Non-Federal 
Land.--Nothing in this title affects ownership, management, or other 
rights relating to non-Federal land or interests in non-Federal land.
    (f) Additional Route Construction.--
            (1) Feasibility study.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall study the 
        feasibility and public interest in constructing new routes as 
        part of the Red Rock County Off-Highway Vehicle Trail to 
        further off-highway vehicle recreational opportunities.
            (2) Construction.--
                    (A) Construction authorized.--If the Secretary 
                determines that the construction of a route on the 
                Trail is feasible, construction is authorized.
                    (B) Use of volunteer services and contributions.--A 
                route on the Trail may be constructed under this 
                subsection through the acceptance of volunteer services 
                and contributions from non-Federal sources to eliminate 
                the need for Federal expenditures to construct the 
                route.
            (3) Compliance.--In carrying out this subsection, the 
        Secretary shall comply with--
                    (A) the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 
                1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.);
                    (B) this title; and
                    (C) other applicable law.

        TITLE X--LONG-TERM INDIAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CERTAINTY

SEC. 1001. INDIAN ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN SAN JUAN COUNTY, UTAH.

    (a) McCraken Mesa Mineral Transfer.--All right and interest in the 
Federal minerals located within the McCraken Extension of the Navajo 
Nation shall be transferred to the Utah Navajo Trust Fund.
    (b) Use of Royalties.--The Act of March 1, 1933 (47 Stat. 1418), is 
amended in the first section, by striking ``37\1/2\'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``62.5''.

SEC. 1002. UTE INDIAN TRIBE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT AREA.

    (a) Split Estate Unification.--With respect to any land within the 
Uintah and Ouray Reservation, where the United States holds title to 
the surface or mineral estate in trust for the Ute Tribe but a Federal 
agency owns or manages the corresponding mineral or surface estate, the 
title to interests owned or managed by the Federal agency shall be held 
by the Secretary of the Interior in trust for the benefit of the tribe 
in order to unify the surface and mineral estates for the benefit of 
the tribe.
    (b) Minerals Transfer.--The Bureau of Land Management shall 
transfer title to the mineral estate of public lands within the Hill 
Creek Extension (originally established under the Act of March 11, 1948 
(62 Stat. 72)) south of the south boundary of Township 11 South, Salt 
Lake Base & Meridian, other than lands for which selection applications 
have been filed by the State of Utah with the Bureau of Land Management 
under authority of the Hill Creek Cultural Preservation and Energy 
Development Act, Public Law 133-133, to the Bureau of Indian Affairs to 
be held in trust for the benefit of the Ute Tribe.

SEC. 1003. WATER STUDY FOR UINTAH AND DUCHESNE COUNTIES.

    The Secretary of the Interior, using existing authorities through 
the Bureau of Reclamation, shall undertake a water study that includes 
a needs, opportunities and constraints assessment in Uintah and 
Duchesne Counties for storage of Ute tribal water and the use of water 
rights currently held by the Ute Tribe.

        TITLE XI--LONG-TERM ENERGY DEVELOPMENT CERTAINTY IN UTAH

SEC. 1101. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    Within Uintah, Carbon, Emery, Grand, Duchesne and San Juan counties 
in the State of Utah, the increased production and transmission of 
energy in a safe and environmentally sound manner is essential to the 
well-being of the rural Utahns and the American people. It is the sense 
of Congress that the Federal departments and agencies involved in 
energy development projects on Federal lands in Utah shall take 
appropriate actions, including Federal primacy delegation, to expedite 
projects that will increase the production or development of energy and 
mineral resources on Federal lands.

SEC. 1102. ACTIONS TO EXPEDITE ENERGY-RELATED PROJECTS.

    (a) In General.--The State of Utah--
            (1) may establish a program covering the permitting 
        processes, regulatory requirements, and any other provisions by 
        which the State would exercise the rights of the State to 
        develop and permit all forms of energy resources on available 
        Federal land administered by the Price, Vernal, Moab, and 
        Monticello Field Offices of the Bureau of Land Management; and
            (2) shall submit, as a condition of certification under 
        section 1103(a), a declaration to the Department of the 
        Interior that a program under paragraph (1) has been 
        established or amended.
    (b) Amendment of Programs.--The State of Utah may amend a program 
developed and certified under this subtitle at any time.
    (c) Certification of Amended Programs.--Any program amended under 
subsection (b) shall be certified under section 1103(a).

SEC. 1103. PERMITTING AND REGULATORY PROGRAMS.

    (a) Federal Certification and Transfer of Development Rights.--Upon 
submission of a declaration by the State of Utah under section 
1102(a)(2)--
            (1) the program under section 1102(a)(1) shall be 
        certified; and
            (2) the State shall receive all rights from the Federal 
        Government to permit all forms of energy resources covered by 
        the program.
    (b) Issuance of Permits.--
            (1) No later than 60 days after the enactment of this Act, 
        the Governor of the State of Utah shall make an election as to 
        whether the State of Utah will process permits for the 
        development of any form of energy resource on available Federal 
        land within the area covered by the Field Offices referenced in 
        section 1102(a)(1). In the event the Governor elects to assume 
        the permitting as set forth herein, he shall notify the 
        Secretary of the Interior of his decision within 60 days.
            (2) Upon an election to assume permitting as set forth in 
        paragraph (1), the process shall be in accordance with Federal 
        statutes and regulations.

SEC. 1104. JUDICIAL REVIEW.

    (a) Jurisdiction.--The United States District Court for the 
District of Utah shall have original and exclusive jurisdiction over 
any civil action brought pursuant to this title.
    (b) Expedited Consideration.--The Court shall set any civil action 
brought under this section for expedited consideration.

SEC. 1105. COMPLETION OF ADMINISTRATIVE LAND EXCHANGE PROCESS.

    The land exchange application, referred to as UTU-78673 pending 
before the Moab Field Office, shall be considered in the public 
interest and completed.

            TITLE XII--LONG-TERM TRAVEL MANAGEMENT CERTAINTY

SEC. 1201. RIGHTS-OF-WAY FOR CERTAIN ROADS.

    (a) In General.--Subject to valid existing rights and consistent 
with this section, the Secretary of the Interior shall acknowledge the 
State of Utah's and its counties' ownership of, and shall forever 
disclaim all Federal interest in, a right-of-way for public travel and 
access on all roads claimed as Class B, that are paved as of January 1, 
2016, and identified as rights-of-way in judicial actions in the 
Federal court system as of January 1, 2016, in Uintah, Duchesne, 
Carbon, Emery, Grand, and San Juan counties, Utah.
    (b) Applicable Law.--A right-of-way disclaimed under subsection (a) 
shall constitute the United States acceptance of the county's and 
State's RS 2477 ownership and that all Federal ownership authority is 
extinguished. The State and counties in return shall withdraw lawsuits 
in the Federal court system affecting those individual disclaimed 
roads.
    (c) Administration.--
            (1) Each right-of-way disclaimed by the Secretary of the 
        Interior under the provisions covered by subsection (b) of this 
        title shall consist of the full geographic extent authorized by 
        Utah State law in effect as of January 1, 2016.
            (2) Each right-of-way disclaimed pursuant to this title may 
        be abandoned pursuant to Utah State law.
            (3) The right-of-way area of disturbance shall generally 
        remain the same as of January 1, 2016.

SEC. 1202. GRAND COUNTY COUNCIL RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CERTAIN ROADS.

    The recommendations of the Grand County Council, as depicted on the 
map entitled ``Grand County PLI Final Map 4-17-2015'' and dated April 
17, 2015, for Hey Joe Canyon, Tenmile Canyon, and Mineral Canyon roads 
shall be implemented by the Secretary of the Interior, with the 
seasonal closures beginning the Tuesday following Memorial Day through 
Labor Day.

SEC. 1203. UINTAH COUNTY ROAD CERTAINTY.

    Not later than two years after the enactment of this Act, and 
subject to valid existing rights and consistent with this section, the 
Secretary of the Interior shall grant a title V right-of-way to Uintah 
County for public travel and access upon all Class D roads, as claimed 
by the Uintah County on its duly adopted 2016 transportation map, and 
as described by GPS centerline description on file with Uintah County 
as a January 1, 2016, and that are also identified on the 2008 Vernal 
Resource Management Plan Transportation Plan.

                TITLE XIII--LONG-TERM GRAZING CERTAINTY

SEC. 1301. CURRENT PERMITTED USE.

    Unless otherwise specified by this title, and pursuant to existing 
permits, on Federal lands managed by the Secretary of Agriculture or 
the Secretary of the Interior in Summit, Duchesne, Uintah, Grand, 
Emery, Carbon, and San Juan Counties, the grazing of domestic livestock 
shall continue and any adjustments in the numbers of livestock 
permitted should be made as a result of revisions in the normal grazing 
and land management planning and policy setting process.

SEC. 1302. BIGHORN SHEEP.

    On Federal lands managed by the Secretary of Agriculture or the 
Secretary of the Interior in Summit, Duchesne, Uintah, Grand, Emery, 
Carbon, and San Juan Counties, the viability or existence of bighorn 
sheep shall not be used to remove or alter the use of domestic sheep or 
cattle where such use was permitted as of January 1, 2016.

SEC. 1303. PROTECTION OF GRAZING LANDS.

    To recognize the importance of public land grazing to the economy 
and culture of rural Utah, and to the State of Utah in general, it is 
the sense of Congress that this title shall ensure public grazing 
lands, including areas outside the areas designated in this title, not 
be reduced below current permitted levels, except for cases of extreme 
range conditions where water and forage is not available. The areas of 
public land that have reduced or eliminated grazing shall be reviewed 
and managed to support grazing at an economically viable level.

                    DIVISION C--LOCAL PARTICIPATION

               TITLE I--LOCAL PARTICIPATION AND PLANNING

SEC. 101. PUBLIC LANDS INITIATIVE PLANNING AND IMPLEMENTATION ADVISORY 
              COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment and Purpose of Public Lands Initiative Planning 
and Implementation Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior and 
        Secretary of Agriculture shall jointly establish and maintain 
        the Public Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation 
        Advisory Committee (in this title referred to as the ``Advisory 
        Committee'') to perform the duties in subsection (b).
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Advisory Committee is to 
        advise the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture on the 
        implementation of the Utah Public Lands Initiative Act.
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the relevant 
Secretary with regard to--
            (1) implementation of this title; and
            (2) policies or programs that encourage coordination among 
        the public, local elected officials, and public lands 
        stakeholders, and the State, tribes, and the Federal 
        Government.
    (c) Appointment by the Secretaries.--
            (1) Appointment and term.--The Secretaries of the Interior 
        and Agriculture shall jointly appoint the members of the 
        Advisory Committee for a term of 5 years beginning on the date 
        of appointment. The Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture 
        may not reappoint members designated under subsection (d)(2)(B) 
        to more than 3 terms.
            (2) Basic requirements.--The Secretaries of the Interior 
        and Agriculture shall ensure that the Advisory Committee 
        established meets the requirements of subsection (d).
            (3) Initial appointment.--The Secretaries of the Interior 
        and Agriculture shall make initial appointments to the Advisory 
        Committee not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (4) Vacancies.--The Secretaries of the Interior and 
        Agriculture shall fill vacancies on the Advisory Committee as 
        soon as practicable after the vacancy has occurred.
            (5) Compensation.--Members of the Advisory Committee shall 
        not receive any compensation.
    (d) Composition of Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Number.--The Advisory Committee shall be comprised of 
        no more than 22 members.
            (2) Community interests represented.--Advisory Committee 
        members shall reside in the State of Utah and represent the 
        following:
                    (A) Governmental interests.--
                            (i) The Utah State Director of the Bureau 
                        of Land Management or a designated 
                        representative of the Director.
                            (ii) The Regional Forester of Region 4 of 
                        the United States Forest Service or a 
                        designated representative of the Forester.
                            (iii) A representative of the Bureau of 
                        Indian Affairs Western Region.
                            (iv) A representative of the Bureau of 
                        Indian Affairs Navajo Region.
                            (v) The Governor of the State of Utah or a 
                        designated representative of the Governor.
                            (vi) The Director of the Utah Department of 
                        Natural Resources or a designated 
                        representative of the Director.
                            (vii) The Chairperson of the Summit County 
                        Council or a designated representative of the 
                        Chairperson.
                            (viii) The Chairperson of the Uintah County 
                        Commission or a designated representative of 
                        the Chairperson.
                            (ix) The Chairperson of the Duchesne County 
                        Commission or a designated representative of 
                        the Chairperson.
                            (x) The Chairperson of the Carbon County 
                        Commission or a designated representative of 
                        the Chairperson.
                            (xi) The Chairperson of the Emery County 
                        Commission or a designated representative of 
                        the Chairperson.
                            (xii) The Chairperson of the Grand County 
                        Council or a designated representative of the 
                        Chairperson.
                            (xiii) The Chairperson of the San Juan 
                        County Commission or a designated 
                        representative of the Chairperson.
                    (B) Community interests.--
                            (i) The grazing community.
                            (ii) The off-highway vehicle community.
                            (iii) The sportsmen or hunting community.
                            (iv) The energy development industry.
                            (v) The guides and outfitters community.
                            (vi) The non-off-highway vehicle recreation 
                        community.
                            (vii) The conservation community.
                            (viii) Archaeological, cultural, and 
                        historic interests.
                            (ix) Biological interests.
            (3) Preservation of public advisory status.--No individual 
        serving under subparagraph (2)(B) may be an officer or employee 
        of the Federal Government or State of Utah.
            (4) Balanced representation.--In appointing Advisory 
        Committee members from the two categories in section 2, the 
        Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture shall provide for 
        balanced and broad representation from within each category.
            (5) Chairperson.--The Secretaries of the Interior and 
        Agriculture shall jointly select the chairperson of the 
        Advisory Committee for a term of 5 years beginning on the date 
        of appointment.
    (e) Annual Advisory Committee Report.--
            (1) Report submission.--The Advisory Committee shall submit 
        a report no later than September 30 of each year to the 
        Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture, the Committee on 
        Natural Resources of the House of Representatives, and the 
        Committees on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry, and Energy 
        and Natural Resources of the Senate. If the Advisory Committee 
        cannot meet the September 30 deadline in any year, the 
        Secretary of the Interior or Secretary of Agriculture shall 
        advise the Chair of each such Committee of the reasons for such 
        delay and the date on which the submission of the report is 
        anticipated.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        describe--
                    (A) the activities of the Advisory Committee during 
                the preceding year;
                    (B) the reports and recommendations made by the 
                Advisory Committee to the Secretaries of the Interior 
                and Agriculture during the preceding year; and
                    (C) an accounting of actions taken by the 
                Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture as a result 
                of the recommendations.
    (f) Other Advisory Committee Authorities and Requirements.--
            (1) Staff assistance.--The Advisory Committee may request 
        and the Secretaries of the Interior and Agriculture may provide 
        periodic staff assistance from Federal employees under the 
        jurisdiction of the relevant Secretary.
            (2) Meetings.--
                    (A) Frequency.--The Advisory Committee shall meet 
                at the call of the Secretaries of the Interior or 
                Agriculture, the Chairperson, or a majority of the 
                members. Meetings shall be held no fewer than 1 time a 
                year. A majority constitutes a quorum for business of 
                the Advisory Committee.
                    (B) Open meetings.--All meetings of the Advisory 
                Committee shall be announced at least one week in 
                advance in publications of general circulation and 
                shall be open to the public.
            (3) Records.--The Advisory Committee shall maintain records 
        of the meetings of the Advisory Committee and make the records 
        available for public inspection.

            DIVISION D--BEAR EARS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

             TITLE I--BEAR EARS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The lands within Bears Ears National Conservation Area 
        have been used by Native Americans for thousands of years.
            (2) The unique, intact archaeological record found 
        throughout the Bears Ears National Conservation Area is sacred 
        to numerous Native American tribes and Pueblos and is of great 
        significance to American history.
            (3) Tribes and Pueblos maintain deep connections and 
        commitments to the lands within the Bears Ears National 
        Conservation Area and continue to rely on and use these lands 
        for ceremonies, spiritual rejuvenation, gathering herbs, 
        firewood and cedar poles, hunting for game, and caretaking of 
        sacred places.
            (4) Many local residents, many with early pioneer heritage, 
        have similarly strong attachments to the land and associated 
        lifestyles, both vocational and avocational.
            (5) Many visitors develop similar attachments and 
        appreciation for these landscapes.

SEC. 102. ESTABLISHMENT.

    Certain Federal land, comprising of approximately 857,603 acres 
administered by the Bureau of Land Management and U.S. Forest Service 
in San Juan County as generally depicted on the map entitled Utah PLI 
National Conservation Area Map dated June 30, 2016, to be known as the 
``Bears Ears National Conservation Area''.

SEC. 103. MAP AND LEGAL DESCRIPTION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than two years from the date of 
enactment of this Act, the relevant Secretary shall file a map and 
legal description of the National Conservation Areas established by 
sections 201 of this title with the Committee on Natural Resources of 
the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
Resources of the Senate.
    (b) Force and Effect.--Each map and legal description submitted 
under this section shall have the same force and effect as if included 
in this title, except that the relevant Secretary may make minor 
modifications of any clerical or typographical errors in the map or 
legal description provided that prior to any modifications, clerical or 
typographical changes, these changes are reported to the State of Utah 
and the affected county.
    (c) Public Availability.--A copy of the map and legal description 
shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate 
offices of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the Bureau of Land Management, 
and the United States Forest Service.

SEC. 104. ADMINISTRATION OF BEAR EARS NATIONAL CONSERVATION AREA.

    (a) Purposes.--In accordance with this title, the Federal Land 
Policy and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), and other 
applicable laws, the relevant Secretary shall manage the Bears Ears 
National Conservation Area (hereinafter referred to as ``Bears Ears'') 
established by section 102 in a manner that--
            (1) protects, conserves, and enhances the unique and 
        nationally important historic, cultural, scientific, scenic, 
        recreational, archaeological, natural, and educational 
        resources of Bears Ears;
            (2) maintains and enhances cooperative and innovative 
        management practices between resource managers, private 
        landowners, and the public in Bears Ears;
            (3) recognizes and maintains historic uses of Bears Ears;
            (4) provides for traditional access by indigenous persons 
        for culturally significant subsistence, including but not 
        limited to traditional gathering, wood cutting, hunting, and 
        cultural and religious uses within Bears Ears;
            (5) consistent with the Native American Graves Repatriation 
        and Protection Act (Public Law 101-601; 25 U.S.C. 3001 et seq.; 
        104 Stat. 3048), the National Historic Preservation Act (Public 
        Law 89-665; 54 U.S.C. 300101 et seq.), and the Utah State 
        Antiquities Act (UCA 9-8-301-308) protects and preserves and 
        minimizes disturbance to Native American archaeological sites, 
        including human remains, from permitted uses of Bears Ears; and
            (6) integrates Native American Traditional Ecological 
        Knowledge as defined in 36 CFR 219.19 to improve social, 
        economic, and ecological sustainability in accordance with U.S. 
        Forest Service 2016 Planning Rule regulations (36 C.F.R. 219).
    (b) Management Plans.--
            (1) Plan required.--Not later than 2 years after the date 
        of enactment of this Act, the relevant Secretary shall develop 
        a management plan for the long-term management of each 
        Conservation Area.
            (2) Recommendations and consultation.--The relevant 
        Secretary shall prepare the management plan in consultation and 
        coordination with local and tribal governments, the public, and 
        the Public Lands Initiative Planning and Implementation 
        Advisory Committee established under Division C of this Act. If 
        the relevant Secretary does not incorporate recommendations 
        submitted by the State, local governments, and Indian tribes 
        into the management plans, the relevant Secretary shall submit 
        a written explanation before the effective date of the 
        management plan to the House Committee on Natural Resources and 
        Senate Committee on Energy and Natural Resources outlining the 
        reasons for rejecting the recommendations.

SEC. 105. GENERAL PROVISIONS.

    The General Provisions in title II section 204 shall apply to this 
title.

SEC. 106. COOPERATING AGENCIES.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall designate and involve as 
cooperating agencies interested tribes and Pueblos that trace their 
culture and heritage to the lands within the Bears Ears National 
Conservation Area in accordance with the National Environmental Policy 
Act (42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.).

SEC. 107. BEARS EARS TRIBAL COMMISSION.

    (a) Creation of Commission.--In preparing the management plan 
subject to section 104(b) for the Bears Ears, the Secretary of the 
Interior shall create a Commission consisting of one representative 
from each tribe or Pueblo that enters into cooperating agency status 
pursuant to section 106. The Secretary shall actively seek advice and 
carefully and fully consider the views of the Commission.
    (b) Stakeholder Advisory Council Representative.--The Commission 
shall select either a representative from the Commission or the Tribal 
Liaison to be the tribal interest representative on the Advisory 
Council.

SEC. 108. TRIBAL EMPLOYMENT.

    In employing individuals to perform any administrative, 
interpretation, construction, maintenance, or other service in the 
Bears Ears National Conservation Area, the Secretary of the Interior 
shall give priority consideration to members of tribes that meet 
publically posted job qualifications and criteria consistent with 
standard Federal hiring practices.

SEC. 109. TRIBAL LIAISON.

    The Secretary of the Interior shall appoint a liaison to the tribes 
that enter into cooperating agency status pursuant to section 106. The 
liaison shall work to ensure the voice and perspectives of the 
cooperating tribal entities are represented in the management of the 
Bears Ears National Conservation Area.

SEC. 110. BEARS EARS ADVISORY COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment and Purpose of the Bears Ears Advisory 
Committee.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        establish and maintain the Bears Ears Advisory Committee to 
        perform the duties in subsection (b).
            (2) Purpose.--The purpose of the Bears Ears Advisory 
        Committee is to advise the Secretary of the Interior on the 
        Bears Ears National Conservation Area.
    (b) Duties.--The Bears Ears Advisory Committee shall advise the 
Secretary of the Interior with regard to--
            (1) implementation of the Bears Ears National Conservation 
        Area Management Plan; and
            (2) administration of the Bears Ears National Conservation 
        Area.
    (c) Appointment by the Secretary.--
            (1) Appointment and term.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall appoint the members of the Bears Ears Advisory Committee 
        for a term of five years beginning on the date of appointment. 
        The Secretary of the Interior may not reappoint members to more 
        than three terms.
            (2) Basic requirements.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall ensure that the Bears Ears Advisory Committee established 
        meets the requirements of subsection (d).
            (3) Initial appointment.--The Secretary of the Interior 
        shall make initial appointments to the Bears Ears Advisory 
        Committee not later than 180 days after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act.
            (4) Vacancies.--The Secretary of the Interior shall make 
        appointments to fill vacancies on the Bears Ears Advisory 
        Committee as soon as practicable after the vacancy has 
        occurred.
            (5) Compensation.--Members of the Bears Ears Advisory 
        Committee shall not receive any compensation.
    (d) Composition of Bears Ears Advisory Committee.--
            (1) Number.--The Bears Ears Advisory Committee shall be 
        comprised of no more than 10 members.
            (2) Community interests represented.--Bears Ears Advisory 
        Committee members shall reside in the State of Utah and be 
        representative of the following members:
                    (A) One representative with historical expertise in 
                the Hole-in-the-Rock Trail.
                    (B) One representative with paleontological 
                expertise.
                    (C) One representative with archaeological or 
                historic expertise.
                    (D) One representative of the off-highway vehicle 
                community.
                    (E) One representative of the non-off-highway 
                vehicle recreation community.
                    (F) One representative from the conservation 
                community.
                    (G) One representative from the sportsmen 
                community.
                    (H) One representative from the livestock grazing 
                community.
                    (I) One representative of the San Juan County 
                commission.
                    (J) One representative of the Tribal Collaboration 
                Commission.
            (3) Preservation of public advisory status.--No individual 
        serving under section 2 may be an officer or employee of the 
        Federal Government or State of Utah Government.
            (4) Balanced representation.--In appointing Bears Ears 
        Advisory Committee members from the two categories in section 
        2, the Secretary of the Interior shall provide for balanced and 
        broad representation from within each category.
            (5) Chairperson.--The Secretary of the Interior shall 
        select the chairperson of the Bears Ears Advisory Committee for 
        a term of five years beginning on the date of appointment.
    (e) Annual Bears Ears Advisory Committee Report.--
            (1) Report submission.--The Bears Ears Advisory Committee 
        shall submit a report no later than September 30 of each year 
        to the Secretary of the Interior, the Committee on Natural 
        Resources of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
        Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry of the Senate. If the 
        Bears Ears Advisory Committee cannot meet the September 30 
        deadline in any year, the Secretary of the Interior shall 
        advise the Chair of each such Committee of the reasons for such 
        delay and the date on which the submission of the report is 
        anticipated.
            (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
        describe--
                    (A) the activities of the Bears Ears Advisory 
                Committee during the preceding year;
                    (B) the reports and recommendations made by the 
                Bears Ears Advisory Committee to the Secretary of the 
                Interior during the preceding year; and
                    (C) an accounting of actions taken by the Secretary 
                of the Interior as a result of the recommendations.
    (f) Other Bears Ears Advisory Committee Authorities and 
Requirements.--
            (1) Staff assistance.--The Bears Ears Advisory Committee 
        may submit to the Secretary of the Interior a request for 
        periodic staff assistance from Federal employees under the 
        jurisdiction of the Secretary.
            (2) Meetings.--
                    (A) Frequency.--The Bears Ears Advisory Committee 
                shall meet at the call of the Secretary of the 
                Interior, the Chairperson, or a majority of the 
                members. Meetings shall be held no less than one time 
                per year. A majority must be present to constitute an 
                official meeting of the Bears Ears Advisory Committee.
                    (B) Open meetings.--All meetings of the Bears Ears 
                Advisory Committee shall be announced at least one week 
                in advance in publications of general circulation and 
                shall be open to the public.
                                 <all>
