[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2815 Engrossed in Senate (ES)]

<DOC>
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2815

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
 To establish the United States Semiquincentennial Commission, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``United States Semiquincentennial 
Commission Act of 2016''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS; PURPOSE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds that July 4, 2026, the 250th 
anniversary of the founding of the United States, as marked by the 
Declaration of Independence in 1776, and the historic events preceding 
that anniversary--
            (1) are of major significance in the development of the 
        national heritage of the United States of individual liberty, 
        representative government, and the attainment of equal and 
        inalienable rights; and
            (2) have had a profound influence throughout the world.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this Act is to establish a Commission 
to provide for the observance and commemoration of the 250th 
anniversary of the founding of the United States and related events 
through local, State, national, and international activities planned, 
encouraged, developed, and coordinated by a national commission 
representative of appropriate public and private authorities and 
organizations.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Commission.--The term ``Commission'' means the United 
        States Semiquincentennial Commission established by section 
        4(a).
            (2) Private citizen.--The term ``private citizen'' means an 
        individual who is not an officer or employee of--
                    (A) the Federal Government; or
                    (B) a State or local government.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Interior.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--There is established a commission, to be known as 
the ``United States Semiquincentennial Commission'', to plan, 
encourage, develop, and coordinate the commemoration of the history of 
the United States leading up to the 250th anniversary of the founding 
of the United States.
    (b) Composition.--The Commission shall be composed of the following 
members:
            (1) 4 members of the Senate, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be appointed by the majority leader of 
                the Senate; and
                    (B) 2 shall be appointed by the minority leader of 
                the Senate.
            (2) 4 members of the House of Representatives, of whom--
                    (A) 2 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives; and
                    (B) 2 shall be appointed by the minority leader of 
                the House of Representatives.
            (3) 16 members who are private citizens, of whom--
                    (A) 4 shall be appointed by the majority leader of 
                the Senate;
                    (B) 4 shall be appointed by the minority leader of 
                the Senate;
                    (C) 4 shall be appointed by the Speaker of the 
                House of Representatives;
                    (D) 4 shall be appointed by the minority leader of 
                the House of Representatives; and
                    (E) 1 of whom shall be designated by the President 
                as the Chairperson.
            (4) The following nonvoting ex officio members:
                    (A) The Secretary.
                    (B) The Secretary of State.
                    (C) The Attorney General.
                    (D) The Secretary of Defense.
                    (E) The Secretary of Education.
                    (F) The Librarian of Congress.
                    (G) The Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution.
                    (H) The Archivist of the United States.
                    (I) The presiding officer of the Federal Council on 
                the Arts and the Humanities.
    (c) Term; Vacancies.--
            (1) Term.--A member shall be appointed for the life of the 
        Commission.
            (2) Vacancies.--A vacancy on the Commission--
                    (A) shall not affect the powers of the Commission; 
                and
                    (B) shall be filled in the same manner as the 
                original appointment was made.
    (d) Meetings.--All meetings of the Commission shall be convened at 
Independence Hall in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, to honor the 
historical significance of the building as the site of deliberations 
and adoption of both the United States Declaration of Independence and 
the Constitution.
    (e) Quorum.--A majority of the members of the Commission shall 
constitute a quorum, but a lesser number of members may hold hearings.

SEC. 5. DUTIES.

    (a) In General.--The Commission shall--
            (1) prepare an overall program for commemorating the 250th 
        anniversary of the founding of the United States and the 
        historic events preceding that anniversary; and
            (2) plan, encourage, develop, and coordinate observances 
        and activities commemorating the historic events that preceded, 
        and are associated with, the United States Semiquincentennial.
    (b) Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--In preparing plans and an overall program, 
        the Commission--
                    (A) shall give due consideration to any related 
                plans and programs developed by State, local, and 
                private groups; and
                    (B) may designate special committees with 
                representatives from groups described in subparagraph 
                (A) to plan, develop, and coordinate specific 
                activities.
            (2) Emphasis.--The Commission shall--
                    (A) emphasize the planning of events in locations 
                of historical significance to the United States, 
                especially in those locations that witnessed the 
                assertion of American liberty, such as--
                            (i) the 13 colonies; and
                            (ii) leading cities, including Boston, 
                        Charleston, New York City, and Philadelphia; 
                        and
                    (B) give special emphasis to--
                            (i) the role of persons and locations with 
                        significant impact on the history of the United 
                        States during the 250-year period beginning on 
                        the date of execution of the Declaration of 
                        Independence; and
                            (ii) the ideas associated with that 
                        history, which have been so important in the 
                        development of the United States, in world 
                        affairs, and in the quest for freedom of all 
                        mankind.
            (3) Infrastructure.--The Commission shall--
                    (A) evaluate existing infrastructure;
                    (B) include in the report required under subsection 
                (c) recommendations for what infrastructure should be 
                in place for the successful undertaking of an 
                appropriate celebration in accordance with this Act; 
                and
                    (C) coordinate with State and local bodies to make 
                necessary infrastructure improvements.
    (c) Report Submitted to the President.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the 
        President a comprehensive report that includes the specific 
        recommendations of the Commission for the commemoration of the 
        250th anniversary and related events.
            (2) Recommended activities.--The report may include 
        recommended activities such as--
                    (A) the production, publication, and distribution 
                of books, pamphlets, films, and other educational 
                materials focusing on the history, culture, and 
                political thought of the period of the American 
                Revolution;
                    (B) bibliographical and documentary projects and 
                publications;
                    (C) conferences, convocations, lectures, seminars, 
                and other programs, especially those located in the 13 
                colonies, including the major cities and buildings of 
                national historical significance of the 13 colonies;
                    (D) the development of libraries, museums, historic 
                sites, and exhibits, including mobile exhibits;
                    (E) ceremonies and celebrations commemorating 
                specific events, such as--
                            (i) the signing of the Declaration of 
                        Independence;
                            (ii) programs and activities focusing on 
                        the national and international significance of 
                        the United States Semiquincentennial; and
                            (iii) the implications of the 
                        Semiquincentennial for present and future 
                        generations;
                    (F) encouraging Federal agencies to integrate the 
                celebration of the Semiquincentennial into the regular 
                activities and execution of the purpose of the agencies 
                through such activities as the issuance of coins, 
                medals, certificates of recognition, stamps, and the 
                naming of vessels.
            (3) Requirements.--The report shall include--
                    (A) the recommendations of the Commission for the 
                allocation of financial and administrative 
                responsibility among the public and private authorities 
                and organizations recommended for participation by the 
                Commission; and
                    (B) proposals for such legislative enactments and 
                administrative actions as the Commission considers 
                necessary to carry out the recommendations.
    (d) Report Submitted to Congress.--The President shall submit to 
Congress a report that contains--
            (1) the complete report of the Commission; and
            (2) such comments and recommendations for legislation and 
        such a description of administrative actions taken by the 
        President as the President considers appropriate.
    (e) Point of Contact.--The Commission, acting through the 
secretariat of the Commission described in section 9(b), shall serve as 
the point of contact of the Federal Government for all State, local, 
international, and private sector initiatives regarding the 
Semiquincentennial of the founding of the United States, with the 
purpose of coordinating and facilitating all fitting and proper 
activities honoring the 250th anniversary of the founding of the United 
States.

SEC. 6. COORDINATION.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out this Act, the Commission shall 
consult and cooperate with, and seek advice and assistance from, 
appropriate Federal agencies, State and local public bodies, learned 
societies, and historical, patriotic, philanthropic, civic, 
professional, and related organizations.
    (b) Responsibility of Other Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--Federal agencies shall cooperate with the 
        Commission in planning, encouraging, developing, and 
        coordinating appropriate commemorative activities.
            (2) Department of the interior.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretary shall undertake a 
                study of appropriate actions that might be taken to 
                further preserve and develop historic sites and 
                battlefields, at such time and in such manner as will 
                ensure that fitting observances and exhibits may be 
                held at appropriate sites and battlefields during the 
                250th anniversary celebration.
                    (B) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the 
                Commission a report that contains the results of the 
                study and the recommendations of the Secretary, in time 
                to afford the Commission an opportunity--
                            (i) to review the study; and
                            (ii) to incorporate in the report described 
                        in section 5(c) such findings and 
                        recommendations as the Commission considers 
                        appropriate.
            (3) Arts and humanities.--
                    (A) In general.--The presiding officer of the 
                Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities, the 
                Chairperson of the National Endowment for the Arts, and 
                the Chairperson of the National Endowment for the 
                Humanities shall cooperate with the Commission, 
                especially in the encouragement and coordination of 
                scholarly works and artistic expressions focusing on 
                the history, culture, and political thought of the 
                period predating the United States Semiquincentennial.
                    (B) Library of congress, smithsonian institution, 
                and archives.--
                            (i) In general.--The Librarian of Congress, 
                        the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, 
                        and the Archivist of the United States shall 
                        cooperate with the Commission, especially in 
                        the development and display of exhibits and 
                        collections and in the development of 
                        bibliographies, catalogs, and other materials 
                        relevant to the period predating the United 
                        States Semiquincentennial.
                            (ii) Location.--To the maximum extent 
                        practicable, displays described in subparagraph 
                        (A) shall be located in, or in facilities near 
                        to, buildings of historical significance to the 
                        American Revolution, so as to promote greater 
                        public awareness of the heritage of the United 
                        States.
                    (C) Submission of recommendations.--Each of the 
                officers described in this paragraph shall submit to 
                the Commission a report containing recommendations in 
                time to afford the Commission an opportunity--
                            (i) to review the reports; and
                            (ii) to incorporate in the report described 
                        in section 5(c) such findings and 
                        recommendations as the Commission considers 
                        appropriate.
            (4) Department of state.--The Secretary of State shall 
        coordinate the participation of foreign nations in the 
        celebration of the United States Semiquincentennial, including 
        by soliciting the erection of monuments and other cultural 
        cooperations in founding cities of the United States so as--
                    (A) to celebrate the shared heritage of the United 
                States with the many peoples and nations of the world; 
                and
                    (B) to provide liaison and encouragement for the 
                erection of international pavilions to showcase the 
                spread of democratic institutions abroad in the period 
                following the American Revolution.

SEC. 7. POWERS.

    (a) Hearings.--The Commission may hold such hearings, meet and act 
at such times and places, take such testimony, and receive such 
evidence as the Commission considers advisable to carry out this Act.
    (b) Information From Federal Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission may secure directly from a 
        Federal agency such information as the Commission considers 
        necessary to carry out this Act.
            (2) Provision of information.--On request of the 
        Chairperson of the Commission, the head of the agency shall 
        provide the information to the Commission.
    (c) Postal Services.--The Commission may use the United States 
mails in the same manner and under the same conditions as other 
agencies of the Federal Government.
    (d) Gifts.--The Commission may accept, use, and dispose of gifts or 
donations of money, property, or personal services.
    (e) Additional Powers.--As determined necessary by the Commission, 
the Commission may--
            (1) procure supplies, services, and property;
            (2) make contracts;
            (3) expend in furtherance of this Act funds appropriated, 
        donated, or received in pursuance of contracts entered into 
        under this Act; and
            (4) take such actions as are necessary to enable the 
        Commission to carry out efficiently and in the public interest 
        the purposes of this Act.
    (f) Use of Materials.--
            (1) Time capsule.--A representative portion of all books, 
        manuscripts, miscellaneous printed matter, memorabilia, relics, 
        and other materials relating to the United States 
        Semiquincentennial shall be deposited in a time capsule--
                    (A) to be buried in Independence Mall, 
                Philadelphia, on July 4, 2026; and
                    (B) to be unearthed on the occasion of the 500th 
                anniversary of the United States of America on July 4, 
                2276.
            (2) Other materials.--All other books, manuscripts, 
        miscellaneous printed matter, memorabilia, relics, and other 
        materials relating to the United States Semiquincentennial, 
        whether donated to the Commission or collected by the 
        Commission, may be deposited for preservation in national, 
        State, or local libraries or museums or be otherwise disposed 
        of by the Commission, in consultation with the Librarian of 
        Congress, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, the 
        Archivist of the United States, and the Administrator of 
        General Services.
    (g) Property.--Any property acquired by the Commission remaining on 
termination of the Commission may be--
            (1) used by the Secretary for purposes of the National Park 
        Service; or
            (2) disposed of as excess or surplus property.

SEC. 8. COMMISSION PERSONNEL MATTERS.

    (a) Compensation of Members.--The members of the Commission shall 
receive no compensation for service on the Commission.
    (b) Travel Expenses.--A member of the Commission shall be allowed 
travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, at rates 
authorized for an employee of an agency under subchapter I of chapter 
57 of title 5, United States Code, while away from the home or regular 
place of business of the member in the performance of the duties of the 
Commission.
    (c) Staff.--
            (1) In general.--The Chairperson of the Commission may, 
        without regard to the civil service laws (including 
        regulations), appoint and terminate an executive director and 
        such other additional personnel as are necessary to enable the 
        Commission to perform the duties of the Commission.
            (2) Confirmation of executive director.--The employment of 
        an executive director shall be subject to confirmation by the 
        Commission.
            (3) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph 
                (B), the Chairperson of the Commission may fix the 
                compensation of the executive director and other 
                personnel without regard to the provisions of chapter 
                51 and subchapter III of chapter 53 of title 5, United 
                States Code, relating to classification of positions 
                and General Schedule pay rates.
                    (B) Maximum rate of pay.--The rate of pay for the 
                executive director and other personnel shall not exceed 
                the rate payable for level V of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5316 of title 5, United States Code.
    (d) Detail of Federal Government Employees.--
            (1) In general.--An employee of the Federal Government may 
        be detailed to the Commission without reimbursement.
            (2) Civil service status.--The detail of the employee shall 
        be without interruption or loss of civil service status or 
        privilege.
    (e) Procurement of Temporary and Intermittent Services.--The 
Chairperson of the Commission may procure temporary and intermittent 
services in accordance with section 3109(b) of title 5, United States 
Code, at rates for individuals that do not exceed the daily equivalent 
of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for level V of the Executive 
Schedule under section 5316 of that title.
    (f) Advisory Committees.--The Commission may appoint such advisory 
committees as the Commission determines necessary.

SEC. 9. EXPENDITURES OF COMMISSION.

    (a) In General.--All expenditures of the Commission shall be made 
solely from--
            (1) donated funds; and
            (2) funds specifically appropriated for the Commission.
    (b) Administrative Secretariat.--The Commission shall seek to enter 
into an arrangement with USA 250, Incorporated, under which USA 250, 
Incorporated, shall--
            (1) serve as the secretariat of the Commission, including 
        by serving as the point of contact under section 5(e);
            (2) house the administrative offices of the Commission;
            (3) assume responsibility for funds of the Commission; and
            (4) provide to the Commission financial and administrative 
        services, including services related to budgeting, accounting, 
        financial reporting, personnel, and procurement.
    (c) Payment for Financial and Administrative Services.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), payment for 
        services provided under subsection (b)(4) shall be made in 
        advance, or by reimbursement, from funds of the Commission in 
        such amounts as may be agreed on by the Chairperson of the 
        Commission and the secretariat of the Commission.
            (2) Relationship to regulations.--
                    (A) Erroneous payments.--The regulations under 
                section 5514 of title 5, United States Code, relating 
                to the collection of indebtedness of personnel 
                resulting from erroneous payments shall apply to the 
                collection of erroneous payments made to, or on behalf 
                of, a Commission employee.
                    (B) Appropriations.--The regulations under sections 
                1513(d) and 1514 of title 31, United States Code, 
                relating to the administrative control of funds, shall 
                apply to appropriations of the Commission.
                    (C) No promulgation by commission.--The Commission 
                shall not be required to prescribe any regulations 
                relating to the matters described in subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B).
    (d) Annual Report.--Once each year during the period beginning on 
the date of enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2027, the 
Commission shall submit to Congress a report of the activities of the 
Commission, including an accounting of funds received and expended 
during the year covered by the report.

SEC. 10. TERMINATION OF COMMISSION.

    The Commission shall terminate on December 31, 2027.

            Passed the Senate June 16, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 2815

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

 To establish the United States Semiquincentennial Commission, and for 
                            other purposes.
