[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3519 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3519

To address the psychological, social, and emotional needs of children, 
    youth, and families who have experienced trauma, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 7, 2016

Ms. Heitkamp (for herself, Mr. Durbin, and Mr. Franken) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                 Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To address the psychological, social, and emotional needs of children, 
    youth, and families who have experienced trauma, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Trauma-Informed Care for Children 
and Families Act of 2016''.

                 TITLE I--DEVELOPMENT OF BEST PRACTICES

SEC. 101. TASK FORCE TO DEVELOP BEST PRACTICES FOR TRAUMA-INFORMED 
              IDENTIFICATION, REFERRAL, AND SUPPORT.

    (a) Establishment of Task Force To Identify, Evaluate, Recommend, 
Maintain, and Update Best Practices.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a task force, to 
        be known as the Interagency Task Force on Trauma-Informed Care.
            (2) Main duties.--The task force shall--
                    (A) identify, evaluate, recommend, maintain, and 
                update, as described in subsection (c) and in 
                accordance with subsection (d), a set of best practices 
                with respect to children and youth, and their families 
                as appropriate, who have experienced or are at risk of 
                experiencing trauma; and
                    (B) carry out other duties as described in 
                subsection (c).
    (b) Task Force Composition.--
            (1) Composition.--The task force shall be composed of 
        Federal employees, consisting of the Administrator of the 
        Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
        (referred to in this section as the ``Administrator'') and 1 
        representative of each of--
                    (A) the National Center for Injury Prevention and 
                Control of the Centers for Disease Control and 
                Prevention;
                    (B) the Maternal and Child Health Bureau of the 
                Health Resources and Services Administration;
                    (C) the Center for Medicaid and CHIP Services;
                    (D) the National Institute of Mental Health;
                    (E) the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute 
                of Child Health and Human Development;
                    (F) the National Institute on Drug Abuse;
                    (G) the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
                Alcoholism;
                    (H) the Administration on Children, Youth and 
                Families of the Administration for Children and 
                Families;
                    (I) the Administration for Native Americans of the 
                Administration for Children and Families;
                    (J) the Office of Child Care of the Administration 
                for Children and Families;
                    (K) the Office of Head Start of the Administration 
                for Children and Families;
                    (L) the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the 
                Administration for Children and Families;
                    (M) the Indian Health Service of the Department of 
                Health and Human Services;
                    (N) the Office of Minority Health of the Department 
                of Health and Human Services;
                    (O) the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency 
                Prevention of the Department of Justice;
                    (P) the Office of Community Oriented Policing 
                Services of the Department of Justice;
                    (Q) the National Center for Education Evaluation 
                and Regional Assistance of the Department of Education;
                    (R) the Office of Safe and Healthy Students of the 
                Department of Education;
                    (S) the Office of Special Education and 
                Rehabilitative Services of the Department of Education;
                    (T) the Office of Indian Education of the 
                Department of Education;
                    (U) the Bureau of Indian Affairs of the Department 
                of the Interior;
                    (V) the Bureau of Indian Education of the 
                Department of the Interior;
                    (W) the Veterans Health Administration of the 
                Department of Veterans Affairs; and
                    (X) such other Federal agencies as--
                            (i) the Administrator recommends to the 
                        President; and
                            (ii) the President determines to be 
                        appropriate.
            (2) Appointment.--
                    (A) In general.--Each member of the task force, 
                other than the Administrator, shall be appointed by the 
                Secretary or other head of the entire Federal agency 
                that contains the office or other unit of government 
                that the member represents.
                    (B) Date of appointments.--The heads of Federal 
                agencies with appointing authority under this paragraph 
                shall appoint the corresponding members of the task 
                force not later than 6 months after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (3) Chairperson.--The task force shall be chaired by the 
        Administrator.
    (c) Task Force Duties.--The task force shall--
            (1) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, and not less often than annually thereafter--
                    (A) identify and evaluate a set of evidence-based 
                and evidence-informed best practices, which may include 
                practices already developed by the Department of Health 
                and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the 
                Department of Education, or another Federal agency, 
                with respect to--
                            (i) the early identification of children 
                        and youth, and their families as appropriate, 
                        who have experienced or are at risk of 
                        experiencing trauma;
                            (ii) the expeditious referral of such 
                        children and youth, and their families as 
                        appropriate, that require specialized services 
                        to the appropriate trauma-informed support 
                        (including treatment) services, in accordance 
                        with applicable privacy laws; and
                            (iii) the implementation of trauma-informed 
                        approaches and interventions in child and 
                        youth-serving schools, organizations, homes, 
                        and other settings to foster safe, stable, and 
                        nurturing environments and relationships that 
                        prevent and mitigate the effects of trauma;
                    (B) recommend such set of best practices, including 
                disseminating the set, to the Department of Health and 
                Human Services, the Department of Justice, the 
                Department of Education, other Federal agencies as 
                appropriate, State, tribal, and local government 
                agencies, including State, local, and tribal 
                educational agencies, and other entities (including 
                recipients of relevant Federal grants, professional 
                associations, health professional organizations, 
                national and State accreditation bodies, and schools) 
                that the Administrator determines to be appropriate, 
                and to the general public; and
                    (C) maintain and update, as appropriate, the set of 
                best practices recommended under subparagraph (B);
            (2) not later than each date on which the task force 
        disseminates a set of best practices under paragraph (1)(B), 
        prepare and submit to Congress a report containing a 
        description of the set; and
            (3) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, and as often as practicable but not less often than 
        annually thereafter, coordinate, among the offices and other 
        units of government represented on the task force, research, to 
        the extent feasible, and evaluation regarding models described 
        in subsection (d)(1)(C), identify gaps in or populations or 
        settings not served by models described in that subsection, 
        solicit feedback on the models, from the stakeholders described 
        in subsection (d)(1)(B), coordinate, among the offices and 
        other units of government represented on the task force, the 
        awarding of grants related to preventing and mitigating trauma, 
        and establish procedures to enable the offices and units of 
        government to share technical expertise related to preventing 
        and mitigating trauma.
    (d) Best Practices.--
            (1) In general.--In identifying, evaluating, recommending, 
        maintaining, and updating the set of best practices under 
        subsection (c), the task force shall--
                    (A) consider findings from evidence-based and 
                evidence-informed models, including from institutions 
                of higher education, community practice (including 
                tribal experience), recognized professional 
                associations, and programs of the Department of Health 
                and Human Services, the Department of Justice, the 
                Department of Education, and other Federal agencies, 
                that reflect the science of healthy child, youth, and 
                family development, and have been developed, 
                implemented, and evaluated to demonstrate effectiveness 
                and positive measurable outcomes;
                    (B) engage with, and solicit and receive feedback 
                from, faculty at institutions of higher education, 
                community practitioners associated with the community 
                practice described in subparagraph (A), and recognized 
                professional associations that represent the experience 
                and perspectives of individuals who provide services in 
                covered settings, to obtain observations and practical 
                recommendations on the best practices;
                    (C) ensure that the best practices include 
                culturally sensitive, linguistically appropriate, and 
                age- and gender-relevant models for settings in which 
                individuals may come into contact with children and 
                youth, and their families as appropriate, who have 
                experienced or are at risk of experiencing trauma, 
                including schools, hospitals, settings where health 
                care providers, including primary care and pediatric 
                providers, provide services, preschool and early 
                childhood education and care settings, home visiting 
                settings, after-school program facilities, child 
                welfare agency facilities, public health agency 
                facilities, mental health treatment facilities, 
                substance abuse treatment facilities, faith-based 
                institutions, juvenile justice system facilities, and 
                law enforcement agency facilities;
                    (D) recommend best practices that are evidence-
                based or evidence-informed and include guidelines for--
                            (i)(I) training of front-line service 
                        providers, including teachers, providers from 
                        child- or youth-serving organizations, health 
                        care providers, and first responders, in 
                        identifying early signs and risk factors of 
                        trauma in children and youth, and their 
                        families as appropriate, including through 
                        screening processes; and
                            (II) implementing appropriate responses;
                            (ii) mechanisms that--
                                    (I) are procedures or systems, and 
                                are designed to quickly refer children 
                                and youth, and their families as 
                                appropriate, who have experienced or 
                                are at risk of experiencing trauma to, 
                                and ensure the children, youth, and 
                                appropriate family members receive, the 
                                appropriate trauma-informed screening 
                                and support, including treatment; or
                                    (II) use partnerships that--
                                            (aa) include covered 
                                        recipients;
                                            (bb) include local 
                                        organizations or clinical 
                                        service providers with 
                                        expertise in furnishing support 
                                        services (including treatment) 
                                        to prevent or mitigate the 
                                        effects of trauma;
                                            (cc) may be partnerships 
                                        that co-locate services, such 
                                        as by providing services at 
                                        school-based health centers; 
                                        and
                                            (dd) are designed to make 
                                        such quick referrals, and 
                                        ensure the receipt of screening 
                                        and support, described in 
                                        subclause (I);
                            (iii) large-scale interventions for 
                        underserved communities that have faced trauma 
                        through acute or long-term exposure to 
                        substantial discrimination, historical or 
                        cultural oppression, intergenerational poverty, 
                        civil unrest, or a high rate of violence;
                            (iv) multigenerational interventions to--
                                    (I) support, including through 
                                skills building, parents (including 
                                expecting parents), guardians, adult 
                                caregivers, and educators in fostering 
                                safe, stable, and nurturing 
                                environments and relationships that 
                                prevent and mitigate trauma for 
                                children and youth who have experienced 
                                or are at risk of experiencing trauma;
                                    (II) assist parents and guardians 
                                in learning to access resources related 
                                to such prevention and mitigation; and
                                    (III) provide tools to prevent and 
                                address caregiver or secondary trauma, 
                                as appropriate;
                            (v) assisting parents and guardians in 
                        understanding eligibility for and obtaining 
                        certain health benefits coverage, including 
                        coverage under a State Medicaid plan under 
                        title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        1396 et seq.) of screening and treatment for 
                        children and youth, and their families as 
                        appropriate, who have experienced or are at 
                        risk of experiencing trauma;
                            (vi) utilizing subclinical providers 
                        (including peers through peer support models, 
                        mentors, clergy, and other community figures), 
                        to--
                                    (I) expeditiously link children and 
                                youth, and their families as 
                                appropriate, who have experienced or 
                                are at risk of experiencing trauma, to 
                                the appropriate trauma-informed 
                                screening and support (including 
                                clinical treatment) services; and
                                    (II) provide ongoing care or case 
                                management services;
                            (vii) collecting and utilizing data from 
                        screenings, referrals, or the provision of 
                        services and supports, conducted in the covered 
                        settings, to evaluate and improve processes for 
                        trauma-informed support and outcomes;
                            (viii)(I) improving disciplinary practices 
                        in early childhood education and care settings 
                        and schools, including use of positive 
                        disciplinary strategies that are effective at 
                        reducing the incidence of punitive school 
                        disciplinary actions, including school 
                        suspensions and expulsions; and
                            (II) providing the training described in 
                        clause (i) to child care providers and to 
                        school personnel, including school resource 
                        officers, teacher assistants, administrators, 
                        and heads of charter schools; and
                            (ix) incorporating trauma-informed 
                        considerations into educational, preservice, 
                        and continuing education opportunities, for the 
                        use of health professional organizations, 
                        national and State accreditation bodies for 
                        health care providers, health professional 
                        schools, and other relevant training and 
                        educational entities;
                    (E) recommend best practices that--
                            (i) can be applied across underserved 
                        geographic areas; and
                            (ii) engage entire organizations in 
                        training and skill building related to the best 
                        practices; and
                    (F) recommend best practices that are designed not 
                to lead to unwarranted custody loss or criminal 
                penalties for parents or guardians in connection with 
                children and youth who have experienced or are at risk 
                of experiencing trauma.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $3,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 
and $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2021.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Covered recipient.--The term ``covered recipient'' 
        means a department or other entity described in subsection 
        (c)(1)(B).
            (2) Covered setting.--The term ``covered setting'' means a 
        setting described in subsection (d)(1)(C).

SEC. 102. DONALD J. COHEN NATIONAL CHILD TRAUMATIC STRESS INITIATIVE.

    Section 582(f) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290hh-
1(f)) is amended by striking ``$50,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and 
such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2003 through 
2006.'' and inserting ``$70,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 
through 2021. Of the amounts appropriated under this subsection for 
each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021, $7,500,000 shall be allocated 
to the operation of the coordinating center of the National Child 
Traumatic Stress Initiative for purposes of gathering and reporting 
data, evaluating models, and providing technical assistance.''.

      TITLE II--DISSEMINATION AND IMPLEMENTATION OF BEST PRACTICES

SEC. 201. USE OF GRANT FUNDS FOR TRAINING IN BEST PRACTICES RELATING TO 
              CHILD AND YOUTH TRAUMA AND COMMUNITY SUPPORT.

    (a) Head Start Act.--
            (1) In general.--Section 640(a) of the Head Start Act (42 
        U.S.C. 9835(a)) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph 
                (8); and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:
            ``(7) Any of the funds allocated under this subsection for 
        Head Start programs (including Early Head Start programs), for 
        training and technical assistance activities, or for 
        collaboration grants may be used to provide training for 
        administrators and other staff of Head Start agencies in the 
        best practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-
        Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 2016.''.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--
                    (A) Section 640(a)(2)(C)(i) of the Head Start Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 9835(a)(2)(C)(i)), in the matter preceding 
                subclause (I), by inserting after ``training and 
                technical assistance activities'' the following: 
                ``(such as training in the best practices developed 
                under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for 
                Children and Families Act of 2016)''.
                    (B) Sections 641A(h)(1)(B) and 645(d)(3) of the 
                Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 9836a(h)(1)(B), 9840(d)(3)) 
                are amended by striking ``640(a)(7)'' and inserting 
                ``640(a)(8)''.
                    (C) Section 642B(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Head Start Act 
                (42 U.S.C. 9837b(a)(2)(B)(i)) is amended by inserting 
                before the semicolon the following: ``(such as by 
                providing training for administrators and other staff 
                of those agencies in the best practices developed under 
                section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children 
                and Families Act of 2016)''.
                    (D) Section 648 of the Head Start Act (42 U.S.C. 
                9843) is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(3)(B)(i), by 
                        inserting after ``systems'' the following: 
                        ``(such as systems that include training in the 
                        best practices developed under section 101 of 
                        the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and 
                        Families Act of 2016)'';
                            (ii) in subsection (b)(2)(C), by inserting 
                        before the semicolon the following: ``(such as 
                        training in the best practices developed under 
                        section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for 
                        Children and Families Act of 2016)''; and
                            (iii) in subsection (d)(1)(G), by inserting 
                        after ``staff training'' the following ``(such 
                        as training in the best practices developed 
                        under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care 
                        for Children and Families Act of 2016)''.
    (b) Child Care and Development Block Grant.--Section 658B of the 
Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 9858) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``There'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--There''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Best Practices.--Any of the funds appropriated under this 
section may be used to provide training in the best practices developed 
under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families 
Act of 2016 for administrators of child care programs, and child care 
providers, that receive assistance under this subchapter.''.
    (c) Social Services Block Grant.--Section 2002(a)(2)(B) of the 
Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397a(a)(2)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in clause (iii), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                            ``(iv) training for providers in the best 
                        practices developed under section 101 of the 
                        Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families 
                        Act of 2016.''.
    (d) Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant.--Section 504 of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 704) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new subsection:
    ``(e) A State may use a portion of the amounts described in 
subsection (a) for the purpose of providing training for licensed 
health care providers and public health agencies in the best practices 
developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children 
and Families Act of 2016.''.
    (e) Maternal, Infant, and Early Childhood Home Visiting (MIECHV).--
Section 511(i)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 711(i)(2)) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) through (G) as 
        subparagraphs (E) through (H), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Section 504(e) (relating to the use of funds 
                for training in the best practices developed under 
                section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children 
                and Families Act of 2016).''.
    (f) Child Welfare Services.--Section 422(b)(4)(B) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 622(b)(4)(B)) is amended by inserting before 
the semicolon ``(which may include training in the best practices 
developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children 
and Families Act of 2016)''.
    (g) TANF.--Section 404 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 604) 
is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(l) Use of Funds for Training in Trauma-Informed Best 
Practices.--A State to which a grant is made under section 403 may use 
the grant to provide training for State and local officials responsible 
for administering the State program funded under this part in the best 
practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for 
Children and Families Act of 2016.''.
    (h) Federal Payments for Foster Care and Adoption Assistance.--
Section 474(a)(3)(A) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
674(a)(3)(A)) is amended by inserting ``, and including training in the 
best practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care 
for Children and Families Act of 2016'' after ``enrolled in such 
institutions''.
    (i) Healthy Start Initiative.--Section 330H(e) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-8(e)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) Training providers in best practices relating to 
        trauma.--Any of the funds appropriated under paragraph (1) may 
        be used to provide training for providers in the best practices 
        developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for 
        Children and Families Act of 2016.''.
    (j) Block Grants for Community Mental Health Services.--Section 
1920 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-9) is amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Training Providers in Best Practices Relating to Trauma.--Any 
of the funds appropriated under subsection (a) may be used to provide 
training for providers in the best practices developed under section 
101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 
2016.''.
    (k) Block Grants for Prevention and Treatment of Substance Abuse.--
Section 1935 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-35) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Allocations for Training Providers in Best Practices Relating 
to Trauma.--Any of the funds appropriated under subsection (a) may be 
used to provide training for providers in the best practices developed 
under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families 
Act of 2016.''.
    (l) Use of Grant Funds for Training Providers in Best Practices 
Relating to Trauma.--
            (1) School-based health centers.--Section 399Z-1(l) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 280h-5(l)) is amended by 
        adding ``Any of the funds appropriated under this subsection 
        may be used to provide training for providers in the best 
        practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed 
        Care for Children and Families Act of 2016.'' after the first 
        sentence.
            (2) Community health centers.--Section 330(r) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254b(r)) is amended by adding at 
        the end the following:
            ``(5) Training providers in best practices relating to 
        trauma.--Any of the funds appropriated under this subsection 
        may be used to provide training for providers in the best 
        practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed 
        Care for Children and Families Act of 2016.''.
    (m) Supporting Effective Instruction; Local Use of Funds.--Section 
2103(b)(3) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 6613(b)(3)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (O), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (P) as subparagraph (Q); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (O) the following:
                    ``(P) providing training for school personnel, 
                including teachers, principals, other school leaders, 
                specialized instructional support personnel, and 
                paraprofessionals, in the best practices developed 
                under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for 
                Children and Families Act of 2016; and''.
    (n) Student Support and Academic Enrichment.--
            (1) State use of funds.--Section 4104(b) of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7114(b)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3) by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) providing training for teachers, administrators, 
        school counselors, mental health professionals, and other 
        appropriate personnel in the best practices developed under 
        section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and 
        Families Act of 2016.''.
            (2) Local use of funds.--Paragraph (5) of section 4108 of 
        the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7118) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``or'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (I), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; or''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(J) providing training for teachers, 
                administrators, school counselors, mental health 
                professionals, and other appropriate personnel in the 
                best practices developed under section 101 of the 
                Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 
                2016.''.
    (o) 21st Century Community Learning Centers.--
            (1) State use of funds.--Section 4202(c)(3) of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7172(c)(3)) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (H), (I), and 
                (G), as subparagraphs (G), (H), and (I), respectively; 
                and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(J) Providing training for teachers, 
                administrators, school counselors, mental health 
                professionals, and other appropriate personnel 
                (including appropriate personnel involved with programs 
                and activities that advance student academic 
                achievement and support student success during 
                nonschool hours) in the best practices developed under 
                section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children 
                and Families Act of 2016.''.
            (2) Local use of funds.--Section 4205(a) of the Elementary 
        and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7175(a)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (13), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (14), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(15) training for teachers, administrators, school 
        counselors, mental health professionals, and other appropriate 
        personnel in the best practices developed under section 101 of 
        the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 
        2016.''.
    (p) Full-Service Community Schools.--Section 4625(e) of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7275(e)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) provide training for teachers, administrators, school 
        counselors, mental health professionals, and other appropriate 
        personnel (including appropriate personnel involved with the 
        full-service community school) in the best practices developed 
        under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and 
        Families Act of 2016; and''.
    (q) National Activities for Schools.--Section 4631(a)(1)(B) of the 
Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
7281(a)(1)(B)) is amended by striking ``or conducting a national 
evaluation.'' and inserting ``, conducting a national evaluation, or 
providing training for teachers, administrators, school counselors, 
mental health professionals, and other appropriate personnel in the 
best practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care 
for Children and Families Act of 2016.''.
    (r) IDEA.--Section 638 of the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1438) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (4), by striking ``and'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) to provide training for appropriate personnel who 
        provide direct early intervention services for infants and 
        toddlers with disabilities in the best practices developed 
        under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and 
        Families Act of 2016.''.
    (s) Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and 
Children.--Section 17(f) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 (42 U.S.C. 
1786(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(27) Best practices.--A State agency may use a portion of 
        the amounts made available to the State agency under this 
        section for the purpose of providing training for local 
        agencies in the best practices developed under section 101 of 
        the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 
        2016.''.
    (t) Community Services Block Grant Act.--
            (1) State activities.--Section 675C(b)(1)(A) of the 
        Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9907(b)(1)(A)) is 
        amended by inserting after ``providing training'' the 
        following: ``(which may include providing training, to the 
        entities that are providers of services to children and youth, 
        in the best practices developed under section 101 of the 
        Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 2016)''.
            (2) National activities.--Section 678A(a)(1)(A) of the 
        Community Services Block Grant Act (42 U.S.C. 9913(a)(1)(A)) is 
        amended by inserting after ``training'' the following: ``(which 
        may include providing training, to the entities that are 
        providers of services to children and youth, in the best 
        practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed 
        Care for Children and Families Act of 2016)''.
    (u) Runaway and Homeless Youth Act.--Section 342 of the Runaway and 
Homeless Youth Act (42 U.S.C. 5714-22) is amended by inserting after 
``technical assistance and training'' the following: ``(which may 
include providing training, to providers of services under this title, 
in the best practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-
Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 2016)''.
    (v) Programs of the Office of Refugee Resettlement.--Section 
462(b)(1) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(b)(1)) is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (K), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (L), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(M) at the election of the Director, providing 
                training, to providers responsible for the care of the 
                unaccompanied alien children, in the best practices 
                developed under section 101 of the Trauma-Informed Care 
                for Children and Families Act of 2016.''.
    (w) Family Violence Prevention and Services Act.--
            (1) Prevention and supportive services.--Section 
        308(b)(1)(D) of the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 10408(b)(1)(D)) is amended by inserting before the 
        semicolon the following: ``, and provision of training to 
        providers in the best practices developed under section 101 of 
        the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 
        2016''.
            (2) National resource center.--Section 310(b)(1)(A)(i) of 
        the Family Violence Prevention and Services Act (42 U.S.C. 
        10410(b)(1)(A)(i)) is amended by inserting before the semicolon 
        the following: ``, and which may offer training related to the 
        best practices developed under section 101 of the Trauma-
        Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 2016''.

SEC. 202. ESTABLISHMENT OF LAW ENFORCEMENT CHILD AND YOUTH TRAUMA 
              COORDINATING CENTER.

    (a) Establishment of Center.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General shall establish a 
        National Law Enforcement Child and Youth Trauma Coordinating 
        Center (referred to in this section as the ``Center'') to 
        provide assistance to State, local, and tribal law enforcement 
        agencies in interacting with children and youth who have been 
        exposed to violence or other trauma, and their families as 
        appropriate.
            (2) Age range.--The Center shall determine the age range of 
        children and youth to be covered by the activities of the 
        Center.
    (b) Duties.--The Center shall provide assistance to State, local, 
and tribal law enforcement agencies by--
            (1) disseminating information on the best practices for law 
        enforcement officers developed under section 101, which may 
        include best practices based on evidence-based and evidence-
        informed models from programs of the Department of Justice and 
        the Office of Justice Services of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, 
        such as--
                    (A) models developed in partnership with national 
                law enforcement organizations, Indian tribes, or 
                clinical researchers; and
                    (B) models that include--
                            (i) trauma-informed approaches to conflict 
                        resolution, de-escalation, and crisis 
                        intervention training;
                            (ii) early interventions that link child 
                        and youth witnesses and victims, and their 
                        families as appropriate, to appropriate trauma-
                        informed services; and
                            (iii) supporting officers who experience 
                        secondary trauma;
            (2) providing professional training and technical 
        assistance; and
            (3) awarding grants under subsection (c).
    (c) Grant Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General, acting through the 
        Center, may award grants to State, local, and tribal law 
        enforcement agencies or to multidisciplinary consortia to--
                    (A) enhance the awareness of best practices 
                developed under section 101 for trauma-informed 
                responses to children and youth who have been exposed 
                to violence or other trauma, and their families as 
                appropriate; and
                    (B) provide professional training and technical 
                assistance in implementing the best practices described 
                in subparagraph (A).
            (2) Application.--Any State, local, or tribal law 
        enforcement agency seeking a grant under this subsection shall 
        submit an application to the Attorney General at such time, in 
        such manner, and containing such information as the Attorney 
        General may require.
            (3) Use of funds.--A grant awarded under this subsection 
        may be used to--
                    (A) provide training to law enforcement officers on 
                the best practices developed under section 101, 
                including how to identify early signs of trauma and 
                violence exposure when interacting with children and 
                youth; and
                    (B) establish, operate, and evaluate a referral and 
                partnership program with clinical mental health or 
                social service professionals in the community in which 
                the law enforcement agency serves.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Attorney General--
            (1) $15,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 
        to award grants under subsection (c); and
            (2) $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 
        for other activities of the Center.

SEC. 203. GRANTS TO IMPROVE TRAUMA SUPPORT SERVICES AND MENTAL HEALTH 
              CARE FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH IN EDUCATIONAL SETTINGS.

    Part A of title IV of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:

   ``Subpart 3--Grants To Improve Trauma Support Services and Mental 
       Health Care for Children and Youth in Educational Settings

``SEC. 4131. GRANTS TO IMPROVE TRAUMA SUPPORT SERVICES AND MENTAL 
              HEALTH CARE FOR CHILDREN AND YOUTH IN EDUCATIONAL 
              SETTINGS.

    ``(a) Grants, Contracts, and Cooperative Agreements Authorized.--
The Secretary is authorized to award grants to, or enter into contracts 
or cooperative agreements with, State educational agencies, local 
educational agencies, Indian tribes or their tribal educational 
agencies, a school operated by the Bureau of Indian Education, or a 
Regional Corporation (as defined in section 3 of the Alaska Native 
Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1602)) for the purpose of increasing 
student access to quality trauma support services and mental health 
care by developing innovative programs to link local school systems 
with local trauma-informed support and mental health systems, including 
those under the Indian Health Service.
    ``(b) Duration.--With respect to a grant, contract, or cooperative 
agreement awarded or entered into under this section, the period during 
which payments under such grant, contract or agreement are made to the 
recipient may not exceed 5 years.
    ``(c) Use of Funds.--An entity that receives a grant, contract, or 
cooperative agreement under this section shall use amounts made 
available through such grant, contract, or cooperative agreement for 
any of the following:
            ``(1) To enhance, improve, or develop collaborative efforts 
        between school-based service systems and trauma-informed 
        support and mental health service systems to provide, enhance, 
        or improve prevention, screening, referral, and treatment 
        services to students.
            ``(2) To enhance the availability of trauma support 
        services and school-based counseling programs, as well as 
        provide appropriate referrals for students potentially in need 
        of mental health services, and ongoing mental health services.
            ``(3) To provide universal trauma screenings to identify 
        students in need of specialized support.
            ``(4) To implement multi-tiered positive behavioral 
        interventions and supports, or other trauma-informed models of 
        support.
            ``(5) To provide training to teachers, teacher assistants, 
        and other appropriate school personnel to develop safe, stable, 
        and nurturing learning environments that prevent and mitigate 
        the effects of trauma, including through social and emotional 
        learning.
            ``(6) To provide training and professional development for 
        the school personnel and mental health professionals to improve 
        school capacity to identify, refer, and provide services, as 
        appropriate, to students in need of trauma support or 
        behavioral health services.
            ``(7) To provide technical assistance and consultation to 
        school systems and mental health agencies as well as to 
        families participating in the program carried out under this 
        section.
            ``(8) To provide linguistically appropriate and culturally 
        competent services.
            ``(9) To evaluate the effectiveness of the program carried 
        out under this section in increasing student access to quality 
        trauma support services and mental health care, and make 
        recommendations to the Secretary about the sustainability of 
        the program.
            ``(10) To engage and utilize expertise provided by 
        institutions of higher education, such as a Tribal College or 
        University, as defined in section 316(b) of the Higher 
        Education Act of 1965.
            ``(11) To provide trainings and implement procedures 
        pursuant to the relevant best practices developed under section 
        101 of the Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act 
        of 2016.
    ``(d) Applications.--To be eligible to receive a grant, contract, 
or cooperative agreement under this section, an entity described in 
subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may reasonably require, such as the following:
            ``(1) A description of the program to be funded under the 
        grant, contract, or cooperative agreement.
            ``(2) A description of how such program will increase 
        access to quality trauma support services and mental health 
        care for students.
            ``(3) A description of how the applicant will establish 
        trauma support services or a school-based counseling program, 
        or both, that provide immediate prevention and mental health 
        services to the school community as necessary.
            ``(4) An assurance that--
                    ``(A) persons providing services under the grant, 
                contract, or cooperative agreement are adequately 
                trained to provide such services;
                    ``(B) the services will be provided in accordance 
                with subsection (c);
                    ``(C) teachers, administrators, parents or 
                guardians, representatives of local Indian tribes, and 
                other school personnel are aware of the program; and
                    ``(D) parents or guardians of students 
                participating in services under this section will be 
                engaged and involved in the design and implementation 
                of the services.
            ``(5) An assurance that the applicant will support and 
        integrate existing school-based services with the program in 
        order to provide appropriate mental health services for 
        students.
            ``(6) An assurance that the applicant will establish a 
        program that will support students and the school in improving 
        the school climate in order to support an environment conducive 
        to learning.
    ``(e) Interagency Agreements.--
            ``(1) Designation of lead agency.--A recipient of a grant, 
        contract, or cooperative agreement under this section shall 
        designate a lead agency to direct the establishment of an 
        interagency agreement among local educational agencies, 
        juvenile justice authorities, mental health agencies, and other 
        relevant entities in the State, in collaboration with local 
        entities, such as Indian tribes.
            ``(2) Contents.--The interagency agreement shall ensure the 
        provision of the services described in subsection (c), 
        specifying with respect to each agency, authority, or entity--
                    ``(A) the financial responsibility for the 
                services;
                    ``(B) the conditions and terms of responsibility 
                for the services, including quality, accountability, 
                and coordination of the services; and
                    ``(C) the conditions and terms of reimbursement 
                among the agencies, authorities, or entities that are 
                parties to the interagency agreement, including 
                procedures for dispute resolution.
    ``(f) Evaluation.--The Secretary shall evaluate each program 
carried out under this section and shall disseminate the findings with 
respect to each such evaluation to appropriate public, tribal, and 
private entities.
    ``(g) Distribution of Awards.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements awarded or entered into 
under this section are equitably distributed among the geographical 
regions of the United States and among tribal, urban, suburban, and 
rural populations.
    ``(h) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed--
            ``(1) to prohibit an entity involved with a program carried 
        out under this section from reporting a crime that is committed 
        by a student to appropriate authorities; or
            ``(2) to prevent State and tribal law enforcement and 
        judicial authorities from exercising their responsibilities 
        with regard to the application of Federal, tribal, and State 
        law to crimes committed by a student.
    ``(i) Supplement, Not Supplant.--Any services provided through 
programs carried out under this section shall supplement, and not 
supplant, existing mental health services, including any services 
required to be provided under the Individuals with Disabilities 
Education Act.
    ``(j) Consultation With Indian Tribes.--In carrying out subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall, in a timely manner, meaningfully consult, 
engage, and cooperate with Indian tribes and their representatives to 
ensure notice of eligibility.
    ``(k) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $6,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2017 through 2022.''.

         TITLE III--UNDERSTANDING THE SCOPE OF TRAUMA EXPOSURE

SEC. 301. CDC SURVEILLANCE AND DATA COLLECTION FOR CHILD, YOUTH, AND 
              ADULT TRAUMA.

    (a) Data Collection.--The Director of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention (referred to in this section as the 
``Director'') shall authorize and encourage States to collect and 
report data on adverse childhood experiences through the Behavioral 
Risk Factor Surveillance System and the Youth Risk Behavior 
Surveillance System. In collecting and reporting such data, States 
shall use the appropriate modules developed under section 302(2)(B), in 
addition to other appropriate modules.
    (b) Timing.--The collection of data authorized under subsection (a) 
may occur in fiscal year 2019 and every 2 years thereafter.
    (c) Data From Tribal and Rural Areas.--The Director shall require 
that each State, in collecting data in accordance with subsection (a), 
ensure that, as appropriate, data from tribal and rural areas within 
such State is included by oversampling from such areas.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $64,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2019 through 2021.

SEC. 302. CDC ANALYSIS OF CHILD, YOUTH, AND ADULT TRAUMA.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall--
            (1) conduct an analysis of--
                    (A) the prevalence of child, youth, and adult 
                trauma experienced in the United States, including 
                assessments of the types of the most prominent adverse 
                childhood experiences, and disparities by race and 
                ethnicity, by geographic distribution, and by 
                socioeconomic status;
                    (B) the public health impact of the scope of 
                exposure to adverse childhood experiences, including 
                whether such scope of exposure to adverse childhood 
                experiences constitutes a public health epidemic;
                    (C) modules that measure and assess adverse 
                childhood experiences, for development and ultimate 
                inclusion in the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance 
                System; and
                    (D) outcomes modules that measure and evaluate the 
                utilization and efficacy of trauma-informed 
                interventions, such as mental health services or other 
                clinical or sub-clinical care, for ultimate inclusion 
                in the Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System and the 
                Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System; and
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, submit to Congress a report on the analysis under 
        paragraph (1) that includes recommendations on--
                    (A) what communities can do to prevent adverse 
                childhood experiences and how Indian tribes, social 
                service providers, law enforcement, health care 
                practitioners, public health agencies, educational 
                institutions, and other community stakeholders may 
                collaborate to improve efforts to identify, connect to 
                appropriate services, and provide treatment and support 
                for children and youth, and their families as 
                appropriate, who have experienced or are at risk of 
                experiencing trauma;
                    (B) modules for inclusion in the appropriate 
                surveillance systems, as described in subparagraphs (C) 
                and (D) of paragraph (1); and
                    (C) how the Centers for Disease Control and 
                Prevention can utilize data collected through 
                surveillance systems to target specific populations or 
                geographic locations with a high incidence of measured 
                Adverse Childhood Experiences, including by considering 
                such data when awarding grants and contracts to 
                entities serving such populations or locations.

SEC. 303. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY STUDY ON BARRIERS TO AND 
              OPPORTUNITIES FOR TRAUMA-INFORMED IDENTIFICATION AND 
              TREATMENT.

    (a) Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General shall conduct a 
        study of the barriers to, and the opportunities for increasing, 
        the early identification and treatment of children and youth, 
        and their families as appropriate, who have experienced or are 
        at risk of experiencing trauma.
            (2) Contents.--In conducting the study, the Comptroller 
        General shall examine--
                    (A) ways in which such identification and treatment 
                could be facilitated in early childhood education and 
                care settings and elementary and secondary schools, 
                such as through improved teacher preparation, 
                professional development, and curriculum design, and 
                the development of the cognitive and social-emotional 
                skills of students;
                    (B)(i) the extent to which State Medicaid plans use 
                early and periodic screening, diagnostic, and treatment 
                services (as defined in section 1905(r) of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(r)) that are provided in 
                accordance with the requirements of section 1902(a)(43) 
                of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)(43))) to provide 
                trauma-informed services to children and youth, and 
                their families as appropriate, who have experienced or 
                are at risk of experiencing trauma;
                    (ii) barriers to increased utilization of such 
                screening, diagnostic, and treatment services; and
                    (iii) the impact of State Medicaid plan design and 
                State regulatory decisions on the provision of such 
                services;
                    (C) the feasibility of, State experiences with, and 
                considerations regarding, systematic collection and 
                sharing of data that--
                            (i) is carried out by health care 
                        providers, State, local, and tribal educational 
                        agencies, social service providers, law 
                        enforcement, and any other entity providing 
                        services in a covered setting (as defined in 
                        section 101(f));
                            (ii) relies on common data measures, 
                        fosters communication and coordination across 
                        covered settings (as so defined), and promotes 
                        shared accountability for the data; and
                            (iii) relates to the screening, referral, 
                        and support of children and youth, and their 
                        families as appropriate, who have experienced 
                        or are at risk of experiencing trauma;
                    (D) privacy and consent issues affecting 
                identification and treatment of children and youth who 
                have experienced or are at risk of experiencing trauma, 
                including considerations regarding information 
                collected and reported by providers and regarding 
                parental consent;
                    (E)(i) the comprehensive, coordinated, and 
                multisector process through which State, local, and 
                tribal educational agencies locate, identify, and 
                screen infants and toddlers with disabilities, and 
                children with disabilities (including such children who 
                are youth), under the Individuals with Disabilities 
                Education Act (20 U.S.C. 1400 et seq.); and
                    (ii) considerations, strategies, alignment 
                opportunities, and applicability for trauma-informed 
                models for conducting such location, identification, 
                and screening;
                    (F)(i) clinical pediatric mental health and child- 
                and youth-serving social service workforce capacity, 
                including analyzing that capacity by setting, 
                geographic distribution, and population served; and
                    (ii) barriers that contribute to any shortages in 
                professionals in that workforce; and
                    (G) the cost-effectiveness and success of providing 
                services through school-based health centers as a 
                method of--
                            (i) addressing the needs of students who 
                        have experienced or are at risk of experiencing 
                        trauma; and
                            (ii) improving their academic achievement.
    (b) Report.--The Comptroller General shall submit a report 
containing the results of the study to--
            (1) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
        Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions, the Committee on 
        Finance, the Committee on Indian Affairs, and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Education and the 
        Workforce, the Committee on Ways and Means, the Committee on 
        Natural Resources, and the Committee on the Judiciary of the 
        House of Representatives.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Child with a disability.--The term ``child with a 
        disability'' has the meaning given the term in section 602 of 
        the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (20 U.S.C. 
        1401).
            (2) Infant or toddler with a disability.--The term ``infant 
        or toddler with a disability'' has the meaning given the term 
        in section 632 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education 
        Act (20 U.S.C. 1432).

    TITLE IV--EVALUATION OF NEW INTERVENTIONS AND IMPROVING SERVICE 
                                DELIVERY

SEC. 401. CLARIFICATION OF DEFINITION OF MEDICAID EPSDT SERVICES; 
              DEMONSTRATION PROJECT TO TEST TRAUMA-INFORMED DELIVERY OF 
              EPSDT SERVICES.

    (a) Clarification of Definition of EPSDT Services.--Section 1905(r) 
of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(r)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by inserting 
                ``(including in the immediate aftermath of exposure to 
                a traumatic event)'' after ``medically necessary''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i), by inserting ``and any 
                past exposure to traumatic events'' after ``health 
                development''; and
            (2) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``including any defects, 
        illnesses, and conditions (including symptoms of a possible 
        mental health disorder that are not sufficiently acute for a 
        diagnosis of a clinical mental health disorder) stemming from 
        exposure to traumatic events,'' after ``screening services,''.
    (b) Trauma-Informed Delivery of EPSDT Services Demonstration 
Project.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall make grants to States 
        to conduct demonstration projects under title XIX of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) to test innovative, 
        trauma-informed approaches for delivering early and periodic 
        screening, diagnostic, and treatment services (as defined in 
        section 1905(r) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1396d(r))) to eligible children.
            (2) Scope and duration.--
                    (A) Scope.--The Secretary shall select 10 States to 
                participate in the demonstration project.
                    (B) Selection.--
                            (i) Diversity.--In selecting States to 
                        participate in the demonstration project, the 
                        Secretary shall--
                                    (I) ensure that geographically 
                                diverse areas, including rural and 
                                underserved areas, are included; and
                                    (II) include at least 2 States in 
                                which Indian tribes or tribal 
                                organizations (as defined in section 4 
                                of the Indian Health Care Improvement 
                                Act (25 U.S.C. 1603)) are located.
                            (ii) Priority.--In selecting States to 
                        participate in the demonstration project, the 
                        Secretary shall give priority to States that--
                                    (I) use a value-based payment 
                                methodology for paying providers for 
                                services provided under the State 
                                Medicaid program, including services 
                                related to healthy child development;
                                    (II) use an alternative payment 
                                model under the State Medicaid program 
                                that enables cross-sector 
                                collaboration, provision of trauma-
                                informed services, and supports for 
                                healthy child development; or
                                    (III) integrate information 
                                technology between child- and youth-
                                serving sectors to improve coordination 
                                and outcomes.
                    (C) Duration.--The demonstration project shall 
                begin not later than 1 year after the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, and shall be conducted for a 
                period of 4 years.
            (3) Requirements.--To be eligible for a grant under this 
        subsection, a State that is participating in the demonstration 
        project shall demonstrate that it has implemented the following 
        measures with respect to the State Medicaid program:
                    (A) The State Medicaid program allows for the 
                provision of early and periodic screening, diagnostic, 
                and treatment services--
                            (i) in a diverse set of settings, including 
                        schools, hospitals, primary care settings, 
                        Federally-qualified health centers (as defined 
                        in section 1905(l)(2)(B) of the Social Security 
                        Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)(2)(B))), and tribally 
                        operated health facilities, without undue 
                        restrictions on the settings in which providers 
                        are permitted to furnish such services; and
                            (ii) by the full scope of providers that 
                        are licensed or otherwise authorized under 
                        State law to provide the services, including 
                        peers through eligible peer support services, 
                        community health workers, or subclinical case 
                        managers.
                    (B) Where necessary to improve or promote the 
                health of an eligible child, the State Medicaid program 
                provides for payment for services provided to the 
                parent of the child.
                    (C) The State Medicaid program has procedures in 
                place to coordinate across settings, including with law 
                enforcement, juvenile justice agencies, schools 
                (including preschools and after-school programs), 
                hospitals, primary care providers, tribally operated 
                health facilities, and child welfare providers, to 
                ensure that eligible children who experience trauma 
                receive the appropriate services.
                    (D) Where appropriate, the State Medicaid program 
                coordinates with facilities of the Indian Health 
                Service (including a hospital, nursing facility, or any 
                other type of facility which provides services of a 
                type otherwise covered under the program) and other 
                tribally operated health facilities to ensure eligible 
                children have access to adequate qualified providers 
                that are licensed or otherwise authorized under State 
                law to furnish the services.
            (4) Funding.--Out of any funds in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated $75,000,000 for 
        the period of fiscal years 2017 through 2021 to carry out this 
        subsection.
            (5) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    (A) Demonstration project.--The term 
                ``demonstration project'' means the demonstration 
                project established under this subsection.
                    (B) Eligible child.--The term ``eligible child'' 
                means an individual who is under age 21 and who is 
                enrolled in a State plan under title XIX of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
                    (C) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services.
                    (D) State medicaid program.--The term ``State 
                Medicaid program'' means a State plan or waiver under 
                title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
                seq.).
                    (E) Traumatic trigger event.--The term ``traumatic 
                trigger event'' means a traumatic event experienced by 
                a child, including--
                            (i) sexual abuse or maltreatment;
                            (ii) sexual assault or rape;
                            (iii) physical abuse or maltreatment;
                            (iv) physical assault;
                            (v) emotional abuse or psychological 
                        maltreatment;
                            (vi) neglect;
                            (vii) domestic violence;
                            (viii) war, terrorism, or political 
                        violence;
                            (ix) illness or medical trauma;
                            (x) accidental injury;
                            (xi) natural disaster;
                            (xii) kidnapping and trafficking;
                            (xiii) traumatic loss, separation, or 
                        bereavement;
                            (xiv) forced displacement;
                            (xv) impaired caregiver;
                            (xvi) personal or interpersonal violence;
                            (xvii) community violence;
                            (xviii) school violence and bullying; and
                            (xix) such other events as the Secretary 
                        shall determine.

SEC. 402. HEALTH PROFESSIONAL SHORTAGE AREAS.

    Section 332(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254e(a)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``(including a 
        community health center operated in an elementary or secondary 
        school)'' after ``community health center''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) by striking ``, and residents'' and inserting 
                ``, residents''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``, and a population group that 
                the Secretary determines has experienced trauma (such 
                as through acute or long-term exposure to substantial 
                discrimination, historical oppression, 
                intergenerational poverty, civil unrest, or a high rate 
                of violence)'' before ``may be''.

SEC. 403. LICENSING GUIDELINES FOR COMMUNITY FIGURES.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the 
Administrator of the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, shall 
conduct a study on, and establish guidelines for States to consider 
with respect to, the licensing of community figures, including 
community mentors, peers with lived experiences, and faith-based 
leaders, to build awareness of trauma and promote linkages to community 
services, provide case management services, and conduct appropriate 
trauma-informed screening for individuals who have experienced or are 
at risk of experiencing trauma. Such licensing guidelines shall include 
recommendations for partnerships between such licensed community 
figures and other health care providers such that the licensed 
community figures could be reimbursed through the State Medicaid plan 
under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) for 
furnishing services to individuals enrolled in such plan.

SEC. 404. TRAINING FOR HEALTH CARE WORKFORCE.

    Subpart I of part C of title VII of the Public Health Service Act 
is amended by inserting after section 747A (42 U.S.C. 293k-1) the 
following:

``SEC. 747B. EDUCATION AND TRAINING IN TRAUMA-INFORMED CARE.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary may award grants, cooperative 
agreements, or contracts to health professions schools, and other 
public and private entities, for the development and implementation of 
programs to provide education and training to health care professionals 
in the delivery of trauma-informed care.
    ``(b) Eligibility.--To be eligible to receive a grant, contract, or 
cooperative agreement under subsection (a), an entity shall--
            ``(1) be--
                    ``(A) a health professions school; or
                    ``(B) a public or private entity determined to be 
                appropriate by the Secretary;
            ``(2) submit an application to the Secretary at such time, 
        in such manner, and containing such information as the 
        Secretary may require; and
            ``(3) enter into an agreement described in subsection (c).
    ``(c) Certain Topics.--The Secretary may award a grant, contract, 
or cooperative agreement under subsection (a) to an entity only if the 
entity agrees that the program to be implemented under the award will 
include information and education on--
            ``(1) best practices developed under section 101 of the 
        Trauma-Informed Care for Children and Families Act of 2016;
            ``(2) interdisciplinary approaches to delivering trauma-
        informed care;
            ``(3) cultural, linguistic, literacy, geographic, and other 
        barriers to care in underserved populations; and
            ``(4) recent findings, developments, and improvements in 
        the provision of trauma-informed care.
    ``(d) Evaluation of Programs.--The Secretary shall (directly or 
through grants or contracts) provide for the evaluation of programs 
implemented under subsection (a) in order to determine the effect of 
such programs on knowledge of and practice concerning trauma-informed 
care.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary 
for each of the fiscal years 2017 through 2019. Amounts appropriated 
under this subsection shall remain available until expended.''.

SEC. 405. TRAUMA-RELATED COORDINATING BODIES.

    Part G of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290hh 
et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 583. TRAUMA-RELATED COORDINATING BODIES.

    ``(a) Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary, acting through the 
        Administrator, shall make not more than 10 grants to State, 
        local, or tribal eligible entities to act as trauma-related 
        coordinating bodies.
            ``(2) Amount.--The Secretary shall make such a grant in an 
        amount of not more than $4,000,000.
            ``(3) Duration.--The Secretary shall make such a grant for 
        a period of 4 years.
    ``(b) Eligible Entities.--
            ``(1) In general.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this section, an entity shall include 1 or more representatives 
        of each of the categories described in paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Composition.--The categories referred to in paragraph 
        (1) are--
                    ``(A) agencies, such as public health or child 
                welfare agencies, that provide services to prevent 
                trauma among, identify, refer for services, or support 
                (including providing treatment for) children and youth, 
                and their families as appropriate, that have 
                experienced or are at risk of experiencing trauma;
                    ``(B) faculty at an institution of higher 
                education, or researchers or experts, in an area 
                related to prevention of, identification of, referral 
                for services for, or support (including treatment) for 
                child and youth trauma;
                    ``(C) hospitals or other health care institutions;
                    ``(D) law enforcement;
                    ``(E) elementary or secondary schools, or early 
                childhood education or care programs;
                    ``(F) providers of after-school, social services, 
                or home visiting programs;
                    ``(G) community organizers or faith-based 
                providers; and
                    ``(H) the general public, including individuals who 
                have experienced trauma.
            ``(3) Qualifications.--In order for an entity to be 
        eligible to receive the grant, the representatives included in 
        the entity shall, collectively, have backgrounds or expertise 
        concerning a broad range of adverse childhood experiences.
    ``(c) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may require, including information describing how the coordinating body 
will continue its activities after the end of the grant period.
    ``(d) Use of Funds.--An entity that receives a grant under this 
section to act as a coordinating body shall use the grant funds--
            ``(1) to bring together stakeholders who provide or use 
        services in, or have expertise concerning, covered settings to 
        identify community needs and resources related to preventing 
        trauma among, identifying, referring for services, and 
        supporting (including providing treatment for) children and 
        youth, and their families as appropriate, who have experienced 
        or are at risk of experiencing trauma, and to build on any 
        needs assessments conducted by organizations or groups 
        represented on the coordinating body;
            ``(2)(A) to collect data, on indicators specified by the 
        Secretary, that covers multiple covered settings; and
            ``(B) to use the data to identify unique community 
        challenges, gaps in services, and high-need areas, related to 
        preventing trauma among, identifying, referring for services, 
        and supporting (including providing treatment for) children and 
        youth, and their families as appropriate, who have experienced 
        or are at risk of experiencing trauma;
            ``(3) to build awareness, skills, and leadership (including 
        through trauma-informed training and public outreach campaigns) 
        related to preventing trauma among, identifying, referring for 
        services, and supporting (including providing treatment for) 
        children and youth, and their families as appropriate, who have 
        experienced or are at risk of experiencing trauma in the 
        community;
            ``(4) to leverage the resources of the members of the 
        organizations and groups represented on the coordinating body, 
        for preventing trauma among, identifying, referring for 
        services, and supporting (including providing treatment for) 
        children and youth, and their families as appropriate, who have 
        experienced or are at risk of experiencing trauma; and
            ``(5) to develop a strategic plan that identifies--
                    ``(A) barriers to and gaps in the provision of such 
                services to prevent trauma among, identify, refer for 
                services, or support (including providing treatment 
                for) children and youth, and their families as 
                appropriate, who have experienced or are at risk of 
                experiencing trauma; and
                    ``(B) policy goals and coordination opportunities 
                (including coordination in applying for grants) 
                relating to the provision of such services to prevent 
                trauma among, identify, refer for services, and support 
                (including providing treatment for) children and youth, 
                and their families as appropriate, who have experienced 
                or are at risk of experiencing trauma.
    ``(e) Supplement Not Supplant.--Amounts made available under this 
section shall be used to supplement and not supplant other Federal, 
State, and local public funds and private funds expended to provide 
trauma-related coordination activities.
    ``(f) Evaluation.--At the end of the period for which grants are 
made under this section, the Secretary shall conduct an evaluation of 
the activities carried out under each grant. In conducting the 
evaluation, the Secretary shall assess the outcomes of the grant 
activities carried out by each grant recipient.
    ``(g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $40,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2017 through 2020.
    ``(h) Definition.--In this section, the term `covered setting' has 
the meaning given the term in section 101(f) of the Trauma-Informed 
Care for Children and Families Act of 2016.''.

SEC. 406. EXPANSION OF PERFORMANCE PARTNERSHIP PILOT FOR CHILDREN WHO 
              HAVE EXPERIENCED OR ARE AT RISK OF EXPERIENCING TRAUMA.

    Section 526 of the Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, 
and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2014 (42 U.S.C. 
12301 note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking paragraph (2) and 
        inserting the following:
            ``(2) `To improve outcomes for children and youth, and 
        their families as appropriate, who have experienced or are at 
        risk of experiencing trauma' means to increase the rate at 
        which individuals who have experienced or are at risk of 
        experiencing trauma, including those who are low-income, 
        homeless, in foster care, involved in the juvenile justice 
        system, unemployed, or not enrolled in or at risk of dropping 
        out of an educational institution and live in a community that 
        has faced acute or long-term exposure to substantial 
        discrimination, historical oppression, intergenerational 
        poverty, civil unrest, or a high rate of violence, achieve 
        success in meeting educational, employment, health, 
        developmental, community reentry, or other key goals.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Fiscal 
                Year 2014'' and inserting ``Fiscal Years 2014 Through 
                2017'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``or any Act appropriating funds for any of 
                fiscal years 2014 through 2017'';
                    (C) in paragraph (1), by striking ``disconnected 
                youth'' and inserting ``children and youth, and their 
                families as appropriate, who have experienced or are at 
                risk of experiencing trauma''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (2), by striking ``disconnected 
                youth, or designed to prevent youth from disconnecting 
                from school or work, that provide education, training, 
                employment, and other related social services.'' and 
                inserting ``children and youth, and their families as 
                appropriate, who have experienced or are at risk of 
                experiencing trauma.'';
            (3) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by striking ``2018'' and 
        inserting ``2022''; and
            (4) in subsection (e), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
        ``2022''.

SEC. 407. TRAUMA-INFORMED TEACHING.

    (a) Partnership Grants.--Section 202 of the Higher Education Act of 
1965 (20 U.S.C. 1022a) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(6)--
                    (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (H) through (K) 
                as subparagraphs (I) through (L), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after subparagraph (G) the 
                following:
                    ``(H) how the partnership will prepare general 
                education and special education teachers to work with 
                students who have experienced trauma (including 
                students who are involved in the foster care or 
                juvenile justice systems or runaway or homeless youth) 
                and in alternative education settings in which high 
                populations of youth with trauma exposure may learn 
                (including settings for correctional education, 
                juvenile justice, pregnant and parenting students, or 
                youth who have re-entered school after a period of 
                absence due to dropping out);'';
            (2) in subsection (d)(1)(A)(i)--
                    (A) in subclause (II), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) by redesignating subclause (III) as subclause 
                (IV); and
                    (C) by inserting after subclause (II) the 
                following:
                                    ``(III) such teachers to adopt 
                                evidence-based approaches for improving 
                                behavior (such as positive behavior 
                                interventions and supports and 
                                restorative justice), supporting social 
                                and emotional learning, mitigating the 
                                effects of trauma, improving the 
                                learning environment in the school, and 
                                for reducing the need for suspensions, 
                                expulsions, corporal punishment, 
                                referrals to law enforcement, and other 
                                actions that remove students from 
                                instruction; and''; and
            (3) in subsection (d), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Trauma-informed practice and work in alternative 
        education settings.--Developing the teaching skills of 
        prospective and, as applicable, new elementary school and 
        secondary school teachers to adopt evidence-based trauma-
        informed teaching strategies--
                    ``(A) to--
                            ``(i) recognize the signs of trauma and its 
                        impact on learning;
                            ``(ii) maximize student engagement; and
                            ``(iii) minimize suspension and expulsion; 
                        and
                    ``(B) including programs training teachers to work 
                with students with exposure to traumatic events 
                (including students involved in the foster care or 
                juvenile justice systems) and in alternative academic 
                settings for youth unable to participate in a 
                traditional public school program in which high-
                populations of students with trauma exposure may learn 
                (such as students involved in the foster care or 
                juvenile justice systems, pregnant and parenting 
                students, runaway and homeless students, and other 
                youth who have re-entered school after a period of 
                absence due to dropping out).''.
    (b) Administrative Provisions.--Section 203(b)(2) of the Higher 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1022b(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) to eligible partnerships that have a high-
                quality proposal for trauma training programs for 
                general education and special education teachers.''.
                                 <all>
