[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2011 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]

                                                       Calendar No. 217
114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2011

                          [Report No. 114-137]

 To provide for reforms of the administration of the Outer Continental 
          Shelf of the United States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 9, 2015

  Ms. Murkowski, from the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, 
 reported the following original bill; which was read twice and placed 
                            on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide for reforms of the administration of the Outer Continental 
          Shelf of the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Offshore 
Production and Energizing National Security Act of 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definition of Secretary.
    TITLE I--THE GULF OF MEXICO OFFSHORE ENERGY AND JOBS ACT OF 2015

Sec. 101. Outer Continental Shelf leasing program reforms.
Sec. 102. Moratorium on oil and gas leasing in certain areas of the 
                            Gulf of Mexico.
Sec. 103. Requirement to implement proposed 2017-2022 oil and gas 
                            leasing program.
Sec. 104. Disposition of outer Continental Shelf revenues to Gulf 
                            producing States.
Sec. 105. National defense.
Sec. 106. Environmental impact statement requirement.
Sec. 107. State authorization.
Sec. 108. Air emissions from outer Continental Shelf activities.
Sec. 109. Offshore certainty.
Sec. 110. Continuous operations rule.
Sec. 111. GAO report on cumulative cost of regulation for offshore 
                            energy production.
      TITLE II-- THE ALASKA OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LEASE SALE ACT

Sec. 201. Lease sales in Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning Area, Cook 
                            Inlet Planning Area.
Sec. 202. Lease terms of certain Chukchi and Beaufort leases.
Sec. 203. Distribution of revenue to Alaska.
Sec. 204. Inclusion of Beaufort, Nearshore Beaufort, Cook Inlet, and 
                            Chukchi lease sales in 5-year leasing 
                            programs.
Sec. 205. North Slope science initiative.
          TITLE III--THE SOUTHERN ATLANTIC ENERGY SECURITY ACT

Sec. 301. Definitions.
Sec. 302. Preserving coastal viewsheds.
Sec. 303. 2017-2022 leasing program.
Sec. 304. Balancing of military and energy production goals.
Sec. 305. Disposition of revenues to Atlantic States.
Sec. 306. Enhancing geological and geophysical education for America's 
                            energy future.
Sec. 307. Atlantic regional office.
                  TITLE IV--TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM

Sec. 401. Tribal Resilience Program.
Sec. 402. Tribal Resilience Fund.
                         TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 501. Access to markets.
Sec. 502. Reports.

SEC. 2. DEFINITION OF SECRETARY.

    In this Act, the term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of the 
Interior.

    TITLE I--THE GULF OF MEXICO OFFSHORE ENERGY AND JOBS ACT OF 2015

SEC. 101. OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LEASING PROGRAM REFORMS.

    Section 18(a) of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1344(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5)(A) In this paragraph, the term `available unleased 
        acreage' means that portion of the outer Continental Shelf that 
        is not under lease at the time of a proposed lease sale, and 
        that has not otherwise been made unavailable for leasing by law 
        in the Gulf of Mexico.
            ``(B) In each oil and gas leasing program under this 
        section, the Secretary shall make available for leasing, and 
        conduct lease sales including, the available unleased acreage 
        within each outer Continental Shelf planning area in the Gulf 
        of Mexico considered to have the largest undiscovered, 
        technically recoverable oil and gas resources (on a total btu 
        basis) based on the most recent national geologic assessment of 
        the outer Continental Shelf, with an emphasis on offering the 
        most geologically prospective parts of the planning area.
            ``(6)(A) The Secretary shall include in each proposed oil 
        and gas leasing program under this section any State 
        subdivision of an outer Continental Shelf planning area in the 
        Gulf of Mexico that the Governor of the State that represents 
        that subdivision requests be made available for leasing.
            ``(B) The Secretary may not remove a subdivision described 
        in subparagraph (A) from the program until publication of the 
        final program.
            ``(7)(A) The Secretary shall make available for leasing 
        under each 5-year oil and gas leasing program under this 
        section any outer Continental Shelf planning area in the Gulf 
        of Mexico that--
                    ``(i) is estimated to contain more than 
                2,500,000,000 barrels of oil; or
                    ``(ii) is estimated to contain more than 
                7,500,000,000,000 cubic feet of natural gas.
            ``(B) To determine which planning areas meet the criteria 
        described in subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall use the 
        document entitled `Bureau of Ocean Energy Management Assessment 
        of Undiscovered Technically Recoverable Oil and Gas Resources 
        of the Nation's Outer Continental Shelf, 2011'.''.

SEC. 102. MORATORIUM ON OIL AND GAS LEASING IN CERTAIN AREAS OF THE 
              GULF OF MEXICO.

    (a) Definition of Military Mission Line.--Section 102 of the Gulf 
of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 
109-432) is amended by striking paragraph (8) and inserting the 
following:
            ``(8) Military mission line.--The term `Military Mission 
        Line' means the western border of the Eastern Planning Area 
        extending from the State of Florida waters to the point that is 
        50 miles south in the Gulf of Mexico.''.
    (b) Moratorium.--Section 104(a) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy 
Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109-432) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``125'' and inserting 
        ``50''; and
            (2) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following:
            ``(3) any area in the Central Planning Area that is 
        within--
                    ``(A) the 181 Area; and
                    ``(B) 50 miles off the coastline of the State of 
                Florida.''.

SEC. 103. REQUIREMENT TO IMPLEMENT PROPOSED 2017-2022 OIL AND GAS 
              LEASING PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--Except as otherwise provided in this title and the 
amendments made by this title, the Secretary shall implement the 
Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Oil & Gas Leasing Program (2017-
2022) in accordance with the schedule for conducting oil and gas lease 
sales set forth in that proposed program, the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), and other applicable law.
    (b) Modified and Additional Lease Sales.--Notwithstanding 
subsection (a) and the schedule of lease sales in the Proposed Final 
Outer Continental Shelf Oil & Gas Leasing Program (2017-2022), the 
Secretary shall conduct under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 
U.S.C. 1331 et seq.) certain oil and gas lease sales in OCS Planning 
Areas in accordance with the schedule set forth in following table:


------------------------------------------------------------------------
          Lease Sale No.              OCS Planning Area     Fiscal Year
------------------------------------------------------------------------
300..............................  Eastern Gulf of Mexico  2018
301..............................  Eastern Gulf of Mexico  2019
302..............................  Eastern Gulf of Mexico  2020.
------------------------------------------------------------------------

    (c) Lease Sales Described.--For purposes of subsection (b), lease 
sale numbers 300, 301, and 302 shall be conducted--
            (1) for lease tracts in the Eastern Planning Area, as 
        determined by and at the discretion of the Secretary, subject 
        to subparagraph (3);
            (2) during the year specified for each such lease sale in 
        the table contained in subsection (b); and
            (3) in accordance with the applicable provisions of this 
        title.

SEC. 104. DISPOSITION OF OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF REVENUES TO GULF 
              PRODUCING STATES.

    (a) Definitions.--Section 102 of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security 
Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109-432) is amended--
            (1) by striking paragraph (7) and inserting the following:
            ``(7) Gulf producing state.--The term `Gulf producing 
        State' means--
                    ``(A) each of the States of Alabama, Louisiana, 
                Mississippi, and Texas; and
                    ``(B) effective beginning in fiscal year 2017, the 
                State of Florida.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (9)(A)--
                    (A) in clause (i)(II), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end; and
                    (B) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the 
                following:
                            ``(ii) in the case of fiscal year 2017 and 
                        each fiscal year thereafter, all rentals, 
                        royalties, bonus bids, and other sums due and 
                        payable to the United States received on or 
                        after October 1, 2016, from leases entered into 
                        on or after December 20, 2006 in--
                                    ``(I) areas in the 181 Area located 
                                in the Eastern Planning Region;
                                    ``(II) the 181 South Area;
                                    ``(III) the Central Planning Area, 
                                as described in paragraph (6)(A)(ii); 
                                and
                                    ``(IV) the Western Planning Area, 
                                as described in paragraph (6)(A)(iii); 
                                and
                            ``(iii) in the case of fiscal year 2017 and 
                        each fiscal year thereafter, all eligible 
                        rentals, royalties, bonus bids, and other sums 
                        due and payable to the United States from 
                        leases entered into on or after October 1, 
                        2016, in the Eastern Planning Area, as 
                        described in paragraph (6)(A)(i).''.
    (b) Disposition of Revenues.--Section 105(a) of the Gulf of Mexico 
Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109-432) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following:
            ``(2) in the case of qualified outer Continental Shelf 
        revenues described in section 102(9)(A)(ii) generated from 
        outer Continental Shelf areas adjacent to the Gulf producing 
        States described in section 102(7)(A), 50 percent in a special 
        account in the Treasury from which the Secretary shall 
        disburse--
                    ``(A) 75 percent to those Gulf producing States in 
                accordance with subsection (b); and
                    ``(B) 25 percent to provide financial assistance to 
                States in accordance with section 200305 of title 54, 
                United States Code, which shall be considered income to 
                the Land and Water Conservation Fund for purposes of 
                section 200302 of that title.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) in the case of qualified outer Continental Shelf 
        revenues described in section 102(9)(A)(iii) generated from 
        outer Continental Shelf areas adjacent to the Gulf producing 
        States described in section 102(7), 50 percent in a special 
        account in the Treasury from which the Secretary shall 
        disburse--
                    ``(A) 75 percent to those Gulf producing States in 
                accordance with subsection (b); and
                    ``(B) 25 percent to provide financial assistance to 
                States in accordance with section 200305 of title 54, 
                United States Code, which shall be considered income to 
                the Land and Water Conservation Fund for purposes of 
                section 200302 of that title.''.
    (c) Allocation Among Gulf Producing States.--Section 105(b)(2) of 
the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; 
Public Law 109-432) is amended--
            (1) subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clauses (i) and (ii), by inserting ``, as 
                described in section 102(7)(A),'' after ``Gulf 
                producing State'' each place it appears;
                    (B) in clause (i), by striking ``and'' at the end;
                    (C) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(iii) the amount made available under 
                        subsection (a)(3)(A) from any lease entered 
                        into within the Eastern Planning Area, as 
                        described in section 102(6)(A)(i), shall be 
                        allocated to each Gulf producing State, as 
                        described in section 102(7), in amounts that 
                        are inversely proportional to the respective 
                        distances between the point on the coastline of 
                        each Gulf producing State, as described in 
                        section 102(7), that is closest to the 
                        geographic center of each historical lease site 
                        and the geographic center of the historical 
                        lease site, as determined by the Secretary.''; 
                        and
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``each fiscal year 
        under subparagraph (A)'' and inserting ``described in section 
        102(7)(A) each fiscal year under clauses (i) and (ii) of 
        subparagraph (A)''.
    (d) Limitation on Amount of Distributed Qualified Outer Continental 
Shelf Revenues.--Section 105(f) of the Gulf of Mexico Energy Security 
Act of 2006 (43 U.S.C. 1331 note; Public Law 109-432) is amended by 
striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the total 
        amount of qualified outer Continental Shelf revenues described 
        in section 102(9)(A)(ii) that are made available under 
        subsection (a)(2)(A) shall not exceed--
                    ``(A) for fiscal year 2017, $500,000,000;
                    ``(B) for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2025, 
                $699,000,000; and
                    ``(C) for each of fiscal years 2026 through 2055, 
                $999,000,000.''.

SEC. 105. NATIONAL DEFENSE.

    (a) National Defense Areas.--Nothing in this title or an amendment 
made by this title affects the authority of the Secretary of Defense, 
with the approval of the President, to designate national defense areas 
on the outer Continental Shelf pursuant to section 12(d) of the Outer 
Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1341(d)).
    (b) Prohibition on Conflicts With Military Operations.--No person 
may engage in any exploration, development, or production of oil or 
natural gas on the outer Continental Shelf under a lease issued under 
this title that would conflict with any military operation, as 
determined in accordance with--
            (1) the agreement entitled ``Memorandum of Agreement 
        between the Department of Defense and the Department of the 
        Interior on Mutual Concerns on the Outer Continental Shelf'' 
        signed July 20, 1983; and
            (2) any revision or replacement of that agreement that is 
        agreed to by the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary after 
        that date but before the date of issuance of the lease under 
        which the exploration, development, or production is conducted.

SEC. 106. ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT STATEMENT REQUIREMENT.

    (a) In General.--For purposes of this title and in order to conduct 
lease sales in accordance with the lease sale schedule established by 
this title, the Secretary shall prepare a multisale environmental 
impact statement under section 102 of the National Environmental Policy 
Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332) for all lease sales required under this 
title that are not included in the Proposed Final Outer Continental 
Shelf Oil & Gas Leasing Program (2017-2022).
    (b) Actions To Be Considered.--Notwithstanding section 102 of the 
National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4332), with 
respect to the statement described in subsection (a), the Secretary--
            (1) shall not be required--
                    (A) to identify nonleasing alternative courses of 
                action; or
                    (B) to analyze the environmental effects of any 
                alternative courses of action; and
            (2) shall only be required--
                    (A) to identify--
                            (i) a preferred action for leasing; and
                            (ii) not more than 1 alternative leasing 
                        proposal; and
                    (B) to analyze the environmental effects and 
                potential mitigation measures for the preferred action 
                and alternative leasing proposal identified under 
                subparagraph (A).

SEC. 107. STATE AUTHORIZATION.

    Prior to publishing the programmatic environmental impact statement 
relating to any Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas 
Leasing Program, a State shall have the option to enter into the 
offshore oil and gas leasing and development program described in that 
Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Oil and Gas Leasing Program if--
            (1) the legislature of that State enacts a law approving 
        entering into the program; and
            (2) that resolution is signed by the Governor of the State.

SEC. 108. AIR EMISSIONS FROM OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF ACTIVITIES.

    Section 328 of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 7627) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the first sentence, by striking 
        ``, and along the United States Gulf Coast off the State of 
        Florida eastward of longitude 87 degrees and 30 minutes''; and
            (2) in subsection (b), by inserting ``the United States 
        Gulf Coast off the State of Florida,'' after ``Mississippi,''.

SEC. 109. OFFSHORE CERTAINTY.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Harassment.--The term ``harassment'' has the meaning 
        given the term in section 3 of the Marine Mammal Protection Act 
        of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1362).
            (2) Request for incidental harassment authorization.--The 
        term ``request for incidental harassment authorization'' means 
        a request submitted to the Secretary by a United States citizen 
        who engages in a specified activity within a specific 
        geographic region for the incidental, but not intentional, 
        taking by harassment of marine mammals.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Commerce or the Secretary of the Interior, as applicable.
    (b) Requests for Incidental Harassment Authorization.--The 
Secretary shall--
            (1) accept as adequate and complete a written request for 
        incidental harassment authorization not later than 45 days 
        after the date of submission of the request for incidental 
        harassment authorization; or
            (2) provide to the requester, not later than 30 days after 
        the date of submission of the request for incidental harassment 
        authorization, a written notice of any additional information 
        required to complete the request for incidental harassment 
        authorization.
    (c) Action on Submission of Additional Information.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), not later than 
        30 days after receipt of the additional information requested 
        under subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall provide the 
        requestor a written determination as to whether the request for 
        incidental harassment authorization is adequate and complete.
            (2) Reason for denial.--If the Secretary determines that 
        the request for incidental harassment authorization is not 
        adequate and complete, the request shall be considered to be 
        denied and the Secretary shall include in the written 
        determination provided under paragraph (1) an explanation of 
        the reasons for the denial.
    (d) Failure To Respond.--If the Secretary fails to respond to a 
request for incidental harassment authorization in accordance with an 
applicable deadline under subsection (b) or (c), the request for 
incidental harassment authorization shall be considered to be adequate 
and complete as of the date of the applicable deadline.
    (e) Treatment of Complete Requests for Incidental Harassment 
Authorization.--Not later than 45 days after a request for incidental 
harassment authorization is considered to be adequate and complete 
under subsection (b)(1), (c)(1), or (d), the Secretary shall comply 
with the procedures required by section 101(a)(5)(D)(iii) of the Marine 
Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(5)(D)(iii)).
    (f) Coordination With Endangered Species Act of 1973 Reviews.--
            (1) In general.--Issuance of an authorization for 
        incidental taking by the Secretary under section 101(a)(5)(D) 
        of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 
        1371(a)(5)(D)) shall not be--
                    (A) considered to be--
                            (i) an action likely to jeopardize the 
                        continued existence of any endangered species 
                        or threatened species; or
                            (ii) an action likely to result in the 
                        destruction or adverse modification of critical 
                        habitat; or
                    (B) subject to the requirements of section 7 of the 
                Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536).
            (2) Not a prohibited taking.--Any taking made in compliance 
        with an authorization for incidental taking issued by the 
        Secretary under section 101(a)(5)(D) of the Marine Mammal 
        Protection Act of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371(a)(5)(D)) shall not be 
        considered to be a prohibited taking of the species under 
        section 9(a)(1) of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
        U.S.C. 1538(a)(1)).

SEC. 110. CONTINUOUS OPERATIONS RULE.

    The Secretary shall amend the regulation issued under section 
250.180 of title 30, Code of Federal Regulations, so that any 
requirement in that regulation for continuous operation is for a period 
of 365 days instead of 180 days.

SEC. 111. GAO REPORT ON CUMULATIVE COST OF REGULATION FOR OFFSHORE 
              ENERGY PRODUCTION.

    The Comptroller General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct more accurate estimates of the cost of 
        complying with major Federal rules relating to offshore energy 
        development and production activities on the outer Continental 
        Shelf; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report describing the results of the estimates calculated under 
        paragraph (1).

      TITLE II-- THE ALASKA OUTER CONTINENTAL SHELF LEASE SALE ACT

SEC. 201. LEASE SALES IN NEARSHORE BEAUFORT SEA PLANNING AREA, COOK 
              INLET PLANNING AREA.

    (a) Establishment of Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning Area.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall establish a planning 
        area for purposes of conducting lease sales under the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.), to be 
        known as the ``Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning Area'' and to be 
        defined in accordance with paragraph (2).
            (2) Definition of nearshore beaufort sea planning area.--
        The Secretary shall define the Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning 
        Area as the area of the outer Continental Shelf (as defined in 
        section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
        1331)) consisting of the portion of the Beaufort Planning Area 
        located within 3 nautical miles of the seaward boundary of 
        Alaska.
    (b) Lease Sales.--Notwithstanding the schedule of lease sales in 
the Proposed Final Outer Continental Shelf Oil & Gas Leasing Program 
(2017-2022), the Secretary shall conduct under the Outer Continental 
Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.)--
            (1) in the Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning Area, 1 lease 
        sale in each of fiscal years 2018, 2019, and 2020; and
            (2) in the Cook Inlet Planning Area, 1 lease sale in each 
        of fiscal years 2018, 2019, and 2020.

SEC. 202. LEASE TERMS OF CERTAIN CHUKCHI AND BEAUFORT LEASES.

    (a) In General.--Section 8(b)(2) of the Outer Continental Shelf 
Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``;'' and inserting 
        ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) in the case of an oil and gas lease in the 
                Beaufort Planning Area or the portion of the Chukchi 
                Planning Area that is beyond 3 nautical miles of the 
                seaward boundary of the State of Alaska, 20 years;''.
    (b) Extension of Existing Leases.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary, with the consent of the 
        holder of a covered lease described in paragraph (2), may 
        extend the initial term of the covered lease to 20 years.
            (2) Description of covered lease.--
                    (A) In general.--A covered lease referred to in 
                paragraph (1) is a lease for oil and gas production in 
                effect on the date of enactment of this Act that was 
                issued under section 8 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
                Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1337) for a portion of the 
                Beaufort Planning Area or Chukchi Planning Area that is 
                beyond 3 nautical miles of the seaward boundary of the 
                State.
                    (B) Exclusion.--A covered lease referred to in 
                paragraph (1) does not include any lease in the 
                Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning Area.

SEC. 203. DISTRIBUTION OF REVENUE TO ALASKA.

    Section 9 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking ``All rentals,'' and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c), 
all rentals,''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Distribution of Revenue to Alaska.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Coastal political subdivision.--The term 
                `coastal political subdivision' means a county-
                equivalent subdivision of the State--
                            ``(i) all or part of which lies within the 
                        coastal zone of the State (as defined in 
                        section 304 of the Coastal Zone Management Act 
                        of 1972 (16 U.S.C. 1453)); and
                            ``(ii)(I) the closest coastal point of 
                        which is not more than 200 nautical miles from 
                        the geographical center of any leased tract in 
                        the Alaska outer Continental Shelf region; or
                            ``(II)(aa) the closest point of which is 
                        more than 200 nautical miles from the 
                        geographical center of a leased tract in the 
                        Alaska outer Continental Shelf region; and
                            ``(bb) that is determined by the State to 
                        be a significant staging area for oil and gas 
                        servicing, supply vessels, operations, 
                        suppliers, or workers.
                    ``(B) Institution of higher education.--The term 
                `institution of higher education' has the meaning given 
                the term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 
                1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002).
                    ``(C) Qualified revenues.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `qualified 
                        revenues' means all revenues derived from all 
                        rentals, royalties, bonus bids, and other sums 
                        due and payable to the United States from 
                        energy development in the Alaska outer 
                        Continental Shelf region.
                            ``(ii) Exclusions.--The term `qualified 
                        revenues' does not include revenues generated 
                        from leases subject to section 8(g).
                    ``(D) State.--The term `State' means the State of 
                Alaska.
                    ``(E) Workforce investment board.--The term 
                `workforce investment board' means a State or local 
                workforce investment board established under subtitle B 
                of title I of the Workforce Investment Act of 1998 (29 
                U.S.C. 2811 et seq.).
            ``(2) Fiscal years 2016-2026.--For each of fiscal years 
        2016 through 2026, the Secretary shall deposit--
                    ``(A) 75 percent of qualified revenues in the 
                general fund of the Treasury;
                    ``(B) 7.5 percent of qualified revenues in a 
                special account in the Treasury, to be distributed by 
                the Secretary to the State;
                    ``(C) 7.5 percent of qualified revenues in a 
                special account in the Treasury, to be distributed by 
                the Secretary to coastal political subdivisions;
                    ``(D) 2.5 percent of qualified revenues in a 
                special account in the Treasury, to be used to carry 
                out the North Slope Science Initiative established 
                under section 348(a)(1) of the Energy Policy Act of 
                2005 (42 U.S.C. 15906(a)(1));
                    ``(E) 2.5 percent of qualified revenues in a 
                special account in the Treasury, to be used by the 
                Secretary to provide grants on a competitive basis to 
                eligible institutions of higher education and workforce 
                investment boards in the State to establish and 
                providing funding for--
                            ``(i) programs to ensure an adequately 
                        skilled workforce to construct, operate, or 
                        maintain oil or gas pipelines; or
                            ``(ii) programs to ensure an adequately 
                        skilled workforce to operate, maintain, and 
                        perform all environmental processes relating to 
                        existing or future oil and gas infrastructure;
                    ``(F) 2.5 percent of qualified revenues in a 
                special account in the Treasury to provide financial 
                assistance for--
                            ``(i) offshore leasing and development 
                        programs in the State; and
                            ``(ii) the development of rights-of-way for 
                        pipelines to transport oil or gas produced 
                        offshore through land under the jurisdiction of 
                        the Secretary in the State; and
                    ``(G) 2.5 percent of qualified revenues in the 
                Tribal Resilience Fund established by section 402 of 
                the Offshore Production and Energizing National 
                Security Act of 2015.
            ``(3) Subsequent fiscal years.--For fiscal year 2027 and 
        each subsequent fiscal year, the Secretary shall deposit--
                    ``(A) 50 percent of qualified revenues in general 
                fund of the Treasury;
                    ``(B) 30 percent of qualified revenues in a special 
                account in the Treasury, to be distributed by the 
                Secretary to the State;
                    ``(C) 12.5 percent of qualified revenues in the 
                Tribal Resilience Fund established by section 402 of 
                the Offshore Production and Energizing National 
                Security Act of 2015; and
                    ``(D) 7.5 in a special account in the Treasury, to 
                be distributed by the Secretary to coastal political 
                subdivisions.
            ``(4) Allocation among coastal political subdivisions.--Of 
        the amount paid by the Secretary to coastal political 
        subdivisions under paragraph (2)(C) or (3)(D)--
                    ``(A) 90 percent shall be allocated in amounts 
                (based on a formula established by the Secretary by 
                regulation) that are inversely proportional to the 
                respective distances between the point in each coastal 
                political subdivision that is closest to the geographic 
                center of the applicable leased tract and not more than 
                200 miles from the geographic center of the leased 
                tract; and
                    ``(B) 10 percent shall be divided equally among 
                each coastal political subdivision that--
                            ``(i) is more than 200 nautical miles from 
                        the geographic center of a leased tract; and
                            ``(ii) the State of Alaska determines to be 
                        a significant staging area for oil and gas 
                        servicing, supply vessels, operations, 
                        suppliers, or workers.
            ``(5) Timing.--The amounts required to be deposited under 
        paragraphs (2) and (3) for the applicable fiscal year shall be 
        made available in accordance with those paragraphs during the 
        fiscal year immediately following the applicable fiscal year.
            ``(6) Administration.--Amounts made available under 
        paragraphs (2) and (3) shall--
                    ``(A) be made available, without further 
                appropriation, in accordance with this subsection;
                    ``(B) remain available until expended; and
                    ``(C) be in addition to any amounts appropriated 
                under any other provision of law.''.

SEC. 204. INCLUSION OF BEAUFORT, NEARSHORE BEAUFORT, COOK INLET, AND 
              CHUKCHI LEASE SALES IN 5-YEAR LEASING PROGRAMS.

    Section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 
1344) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Inclusion of Certain Lease Sales.--Effective starting with 
the leasing program for fiscal years 2023 through 2027, the Secretary 
shall include in any leasing program prepared in accordance with this 
section provisions for the conduct of at least 3 lease sales in each of 
the Beaufort Planning Area and the Chukchi Planning Area, and annual 
lease sales in the Nearshore Beaufort Sea Planning Area and the Cook 
Inlet Planning Area during the term of the leasing program.''.

SEC. 205. NORTH SLOPE SCIENCE INITIATIVE.

    Section 348 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 15906) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``(referred to 
                in this section as the `Secretary')'' after ``Secretary 
                of the Interior''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``(including the 
                Beaufort and Chukchi seas)'' after ``North Slope of 
                Alaska'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``(including the 
                Beaufort and Chukchi seas)'' after ``North Slope''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``develop an 
                understanding of'' and inserting ``identify''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)(2), by inserting ``the Northwest 
        Arctic Borough, the NANA Regional Corporation,'' after ``Arctic 
        Slope Regional Corporation,''.

          TITLE III--THE SOUTHERN ATLANTIC ENERGY SECURITY ACT

SEC. 301. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management.
            (2) Institution of higher education.--The term 
        ``institution of higher education'' has the meaning given the 
        term in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
        U.S.C. 1002).
            (3) Qualified revenues.--The term ``qualified revenues'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 9(c)(1) of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338(c)(1)).
            (4) South atlantic planning area.--The term ``South 
        Atlantic planning area'' means the area of the outer 
        Continental Shelf (as defined in section 2 of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331)) that is located 
        between the northern lateral seaward administrative boundary of 
        the Commonwealth of Virginia and the southernmost lateral 
        seaward administrative boundary of the State of Georgia.
            (5) State.--The term ``State'' means any of the following 
        States:
                    (A) Georgia.
                    (B) North Carolina.
                    (C) South Carolina.
                    (D) Virginia.

SEC. 302. PRESERVING COASTAL VIEWSHEDS.

    (a) In General.--Prior to conducting a lease sale authorized under 
this title that would offer leases within 30 nautical miles of the 
coastline, the Secretary shall consult with the Governor of each 
potentially affected State to establish appropriate lease stipulations 
for the management of the surface occupancy of the areas between the 
coastline and 30 nautical miles to mitigate any potential concerns 
regarding impacts to coastal viewsheds.
    (b) Considerations for Production Facilities.--The Secretary and 
the State shall consider--
            (1) restricting the installation of permanent surface 
        production facilities above the waterline for the purpose of 
        production of oil or gas resources in any area that is within 
        12 nautical miles seaward from the coastline of the State; and
            (2) allowing only subsurface production facilities to be 
        installed in areas that are located between the point that is 
        12 nautical miles from seaward from the coastline of the State 
        and the point that is 30 nautical miles seaward from the 
        coastline of the State.
    (c) Development and Production Plan Approval.--If permanent surface 
facilities are proposed to be installed within 30 nautical miles of the 
coastline, the Secretary shall not grant approval of the development 
and production plan unless it is determined that the facility is 
designed so that the impacts on coastal viewsheds are minimized, to the 
maximum extent practicable.
    (d) Onshore Access to Leases Not Restricted.--Notwithstanding any 
other provision of this section, onshore facilities associated with the 
drilling, development, and production of the oil and gas resources of 
the South Atlantic planning area within 12 nautical miles seaward of 
the coastline of a State are allowed.
    (e) Temporary Activities Not Affected.--Nothing described in 
subsection (a), (b), or (c) restricts, or gives the States authority to 
restrict, temporary surface activities related to operations associated 
with outer Continental Shelf oil and gas leases.

SEC. 303. 2017-2022 LEASING PROGRAM.

    The Secretary shall--
            (1) include the South Atlantic planning area in the outer 
        Continental Shelf leasing program for fiscal years 2017 through 
        2022 prepared under section 18 of the Outer Continental Shelf 
        Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344); and
            (2) conduct in the South Atlantic planning area--
                    (A) 1 lease sale during fiscal year 2021; and
                    (B) 2 lease sales during fiscal year 2022.

SEC. 304. BALANCING OF MILITARY AND ENERGY PRODUCTION GOALS.

    (a) In General.--In recognition that the outer Continental Shelf 
oil and gas leasing program and the domestic energy resources produced 
under the program are integral to national security, the Secretary and 
the Secretary of Defense shall work jointly in implementing lease sales 
under this title--
            (1) to preserve the ability of the Armed Forces of the 
        United States to maintain an optimum state of readiness through 
        their continued use of the outer Continental Shelf; and
            (2) to allow effective exploration, development, and 
        production of the oil, gas, and renewable energy resources of 
        the United States.
    (b) Prohibition on Conflicts With Military Operations.--No person 
may engage in any exploration, development, or production of oil or 
natural gas on the outer Continental Shelf under a lease issued under 
this title that the President determines would conflict with any 
military operation, as determined in accordance with--
            (1) the agreement entitled ``Memorandum of Agreement 
        between the Department of Defense and the Department of the 
        Interior on Mutual Concerns on the Outer Continental Shelf'' 
        signed July 20, 1983; and
            (2) any revision or replacement for the agreement described 
        in paragraph (1) that is agreed to by the Secretary of Defense 
        and the Secretary after that date but before the date of 
        issuance of the lease under which the exploration, development, 
        or production is conducted.

SEC. 305. DISPOSITION OF REVENUES TO ATLANTIC STATES.

    Section 9 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338) 
(as amended by section 203(2)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
    ``(c) Distribution of Revenue to Atlantic States.--
            ``(1) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Atlantic state.--The term `Atlantic State' 
                means a State adjacent to the South Atlantic Planning 
                Area.
                    ``(B) Qualified revenues.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The term `qualified 
                        revenues' means all revenues derived from all 
                        rentals, royalties, bonus bids, and other sums 
                        due and payable to the United States from 
                        energy development in the Atlantic planning 
                        region.
                            ``(ii) Exclusions.--The term `qualified 
                        revenues' does not include revenues generated 
                        from leases subject to section 8(g).
            ``(2) Deposit.--For fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal year 
        thereafter, the Secretary shall deposit--
                    ``(A) 62.5 percent of any qualified revenues in the 
                general fund of the Treasury, of which--
                            ``(i) 5 percent shall be allocated to the 
                        Department of Energy for projects that enhance 
                        the safety, security, resilience, and 
                        reliability of energy supply, research, 
                        transmission, storage, or distribution 
                        infrastructure;
                            ``(ii) 5 percent shall be allocated to the 
                        Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy program 
                        at the Department of Energy; and
                            ``(iii) 2.5 percent shall be allocated to 
                        high priority deferred maintenance needs of the 
                        National Park Service that support critical 
                        infrastructure and visitor services; and
                    ``(B) 37.5 percent of any qualified revenues in a 
                special account in the Treasury from which the 
                Secretary shall disburse amounts to the Atlantic States 
                in accordance with paragraph (3).
            ``(3) Allocation to states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C), effective for fiscal year 2017 and each fiscal 
                year thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
                allocate the qualified revenues described in paragraph 
                (2)(B) to each Atlantic State in amounts (based on a 
                formula established by the Secretary, by regulation) 
                that are inversely proportional to the respective 
                distances between--
                            ``(i) the point on the coastline of each 
                        Atlantic State that is closest to the 
                        geographical center of the applicable leased 
                        tract; and
                            ``(ii) the geographical center of that 
                        leased tract.
                    ``(B) Minimum allocation.--The amount allocated to 
                an Atlantic State for each fiscal year under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be not less than 10 percent of 
                the amounts available under paragraph (2)(B).
                    ``(C) State allocation.--Of the amounts received by 
                a State under subparagraph (A), the Atlantic State may 
                use, at the discretion of the Governor of the State--
                            ``(i) 10 percent--
                                    ``(I) to enhance State land and 
                                water conservation efforts;
                                    ``(II) to improve State public 
                                transportation projects;
                                    ``(III) to establish alternative, 
                                renewable, and clean energy production 
                                and generation within each State; and
                                    ``(IV) to enhance beach nourishment 
                                and costal dredging; and
                            ``(ii) 2.5 percent to enhance geological 
                        and geophysical education for the energy future 
                        of the United States in accordance with section 
                        306 of the Offshore Production and Energizing 
                        National Security Act of 2015.''.

SEC. 306. ENHANCING GEOLOGICAL AND GEOPHYSICAL EDUCATION FOR AMERICA'S 
              ENERGY FUTURE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director, shall 
partner with institutions of higher education selected under subsection 
(c) to facilitate the practical study of geological and geophysical 
sciences of areas on the Atlantic region of the outer Continental Shelf 
and elsewhere on the Continental Shelf of the United States.
    (b) Focus.--Activities conducted by institutions of higher 
education under this section shall focus all geological and geophysical 
scientific research on obtaining a better understanding of hydrocarbon 
potential in the South Atlantic planning area while fostering the study 
of the geological and geophysical sciences at institutions of higher 
education in the United States.
    (c) Selection of Institutions.--
            (1) Selection.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Governor of each State may nominate 
        for participation in a partnership--
                    (A) 1 institution of higher education located in 
                the State; and
                    (B) 1 institution of higher education that is a 
                historically Black college or university (as defined in 
                section 631(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 
                U.S.C. 1132(a))) located in the State.
            (2) Preference.--In making nominations under paragraph (1), 
        each Governor shall give preference to those institutions of 
        higher education that--
                    (A) demonstrate a vigorous rate of admissions of 
                veterans of the Armed Forces of the United States; and
                    (B) meet the criteria described in paragraph (3).
            (3) Criteria.--The Governor shall select as a partner any 
        institution of higher education nominated under paragraph (1) 
        that the Governor determines demonstrates excellence in 1 or 
        more of the following criteria:
                    (A) Geophysical sciences curriculum.
                    (B) Engineering curriculum.
                    (C) Information technology or other technical 
                studies related to seismic research, including data 
                processing.
    (d) Research Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), an 
        institution of higher education selected under subsection 
        (c)(3) may conduct research under this section on the 
        expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date on which 
        the institution of higher education submits to the South 
        Atlantic Regional Director of the Bureau of Ocean Energy 
        Management a notice of the research.
            (2) Permit required.--An institution of higher education 
        may not conduct research under this section that uses any solid 
        or liquid explosive, except as authorized by a permit issued by 
        the Director.
    (e) Data.--
            (1) In general.--The geological and geophysical activities 
        conducted under this section--
                    (A) shall be considered to be scientific research 
                and data produced by the activities;
                    (B) shall not be used or shared for commercial 
                purposes;
                    (C) shall not be produced for proprietary use or 
                sale; and
                    (D) shall be made available by the Director to the 
                public.
            (2) Submission of data to boem.--Not later than 60 days 
        after completion of initial analysis of data collected under 
        this section by an institution of higher education selected 
        under subsection (c)(3), the institution of higher education 
        shall share with the Director any data collected requested by 
        the Director.
            (3) Fees.--The Director may not charge any fee for the 
        provision of data produced in research under this section, 
        other than a data reprocessing fee to pay the cost of 
        duplicating the data.
    (f) Report.--Not less frequently than once every 180 days, the 
Director shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources 
of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of 
Representatives a report on the data derived from partnerships under 
this section.

SEC. 307. ATLANTIC REGIONAL OFFICE.

    Not later than the last day of the outer Continental Shelf leasing 
program for fiscal years 2012 through 2017 prepared under section 18 of 
the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1344), the Director 
shall establish an Atlantic regional office in an area that is--
            (1) included in the outer Continental Shelf leasing program 
        for fiscal years 2017 through 2022 prepared under section 18 of 
        that Act (43 U.S.C. 1344); and
            (2) determined by the Director to have the highest 
        potential for resource development.

                  TITLE IV--TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM

SEC. 401. TRIBAL RESILIENCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Definition of Indian Tribe.--In this section, the term ``Indian 
tribe'' has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-
Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b).
    (b) Establishment.--The Secretary shall establish a program--
            (1) to improve the resilience of Indian tribes to the 
        effects of a changing climate;
            (2) to support Native American leaders in building strong, 
        resilient communities; and
            (3) to ensure the development of modern, cost-effective 
        infrastructure.
    (c) Grants.--Subject to the availability of appropriations and 
amounts in the Tribal Resilience Fund established by section 402(a), in 
carrying out the program described in subsection (b), the Secretary 
shall make adaptation grants, in amounts not to exceed $200,000,000 
total per fiscal year, to Indian tribes for eligible activities 
described in subsection (d).
    (d) Eligible Activities.--An Indian tribe receiving a grant under 
subsection (c) may only use grant funds for 1 or more of the following 
eligible activities:
            (1) Development and delivery of adaptation training.
            (2) Adaptation planning, vulnerability assessments, 
        emergency preparedness planning, and monitoring.
            (3) Capacity building through travel support for training, 
        technical sessions, and cooperative management forums.
            (4) Travel support for participation in ocean and coastal 
        planning.
            (5) Development of science-based information and tools to 
        enable adaptive resource management and the ability to plan for 
        resilience.
            (6) Relocation of villages or other communities 
        experiencing or susceptible to coastal or river erosion.
            (7) Construction of infrastructure to support emergency 
        evacuations.
            (8) Restoration or repair of infrastructure damaged by 
        melting permafrost or coastal or river erosion.
            (9) Installation and management of energy systems that 
        reduce energy costs and greenhouse gas emissions compared to 
        the energy systems in use before that installation and 
        management.
            (10) Construction and maintenance of social or cultural 
        infrastructure that the Secretary determines supports 
        resilience.
    (e) Applications.--An Indian tribe desiring an adaptation grant 
under subsection (c) shall submit to the Secretary an application at 
such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the 
Secretary may require, including a description of the eligible 
activities to be undertaken using the grant.
    (f) Capital Projects.--Of amounts made available to carry out this 
program, not less than 90 percent shall be used for the engineering, 
design, and construction or implementation of capital projects.
    (g) Interagency Cooperation.--The Secretary and the Administrator 
of the Environmental Protection Agency shall establish under the White 
House Council on Native American Affairs an interagency subgroup on 
tribal resilience--
            (1) to work with Indian tribes to collect and share data 
        and information, including traditional ecological knowledge, 
        about how the effects of a changing climate are relevant to 
        Indian tribes and Alaska Natives; and
            (2) to identify opportunities for the Federal Government to 
        improve collaboration and assist with adaptation and mitigation 
        efforts that promote resilience.
    (h) Tribal Resilience Liaison.--The Secretary shall establish a 
tribal resilience liaison--
            (1) to coordinate with Indian tribes and relevant Federal 
        agencies; and
            (2) to help ensure tribal engagement in climate 
        conversations at the Federal level.

SEC. 402. TRIBAL RESILIENCE FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Treasury a fund, to 
be known as the ``Tribal Resilience Fund'' (referred to in this section 
as the ``Fund'').
    (b) Deposits.--The Fund shall consist of the following:
            (1) Amounts made available through an appropriation Act for 
        deposit in the Fund.
            (2) Amounts deposited into the Fund under paragraphs (2)(G) 
        and (3)(C) of subsection (b) of section 9 of the Outer 
        Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1338) (as added by 
        section 203(2)).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to the amounts estimated by 
        the Secretary to be deposited in the Fund under subsection (b), 
        there are authorized to be appropriated annually to the Fund 
        out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated 
        such amounts as are necessary to make the income of the Fund 
        not more than $200,000,000 for fiscal year 2027 and each fiscal 
        year thereafter.
            (2) Receipts under outer continental shelf lands act.--To 
        the extent that amounts appropriated under paragraph (1) and 
        deposited under subsection (b) are not sufficient to make the 
        total annual income of the Fund equivalent to the amounts 
        provided in paragraph (1), an amount sufficient to cover the 
        remainder shall be credited to the Fund from revenues due and 
        payable to the United States for deposit in the Treasury as 
        miscellaneous receipts under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands 
        Act (43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq.).
            (3) Availability of deposits.--
                    (A) In general.--Amounts deposited in the Fund 
                under this subsection shall remain available until 
                expended, without fiscal year limitation.
                    (B) Use.--Amounts deposited in the Fund under this 
                subsection and made available for obligation or 
                expenditure from the Fund may be obligated or expended 
                only to carry out the Tribal Resilience Program under 
                section 401.

                         TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 501. ACCESS TO MARKETS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to 
promote the efficient exploration, production, storage, supply, and 
distribution of energy resources, any domestic crude oil or condensate 
(other than crude oil stored in the Strategic Petroleum Reserve) may be 
exported without a Federal license to countries not subject to 
sanctions by the United States.
    (b) Savings Clause.--Nothing in this section limits the authority 
of the President under the Constitution, the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), the National Emergencies 
Act (50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.), or part B of title II of the Energy 
Policy and Conservation Act (42 U.S.C. 6271 et seq.) to prohibit 
exports.
    (c) Findings.--Congress finds that--
            (1) the United States has enjoyed a renaissance in energy 
        production--
                    (A) increasing domestic investment and jobs; and
                    (B) establishing the United States as a world 
                leader in crude oil production;
            (2) the United States upholds a commitment to free trade 
        and open markets and has consistently opposed attempts by other 
        nations to restrict the free flow of energy;
            (3) independent studies have concluded that allowing the 
        export of domestically produced crude oil--
                    (A) will increase the globally available supply of 
                crude oil; and
                    (B) will tend to reduce domestic prices for 
                gasoline and other refined petroleum products in the 
                United States;
            (4) gasoline and other refined petroleum products are 
        already eligible for export from the United States without 
        restriction;
            (5) gasoline prices in the United States reflect the price 
        paid on the global market for crude oil and not a separate 
        crude oil price in the United States;
            (6) exports of crude oil produced in the United States 
        would provide an alternative stable supplier for crude oil to 
        allies of the United States around the world--
                    (A) allowing United States crude oil exports to 
                compete on equal footing with other international 
                crudes;
                    (B) allowing United States crude oil exports to 
                compete with and potentially displace crude oil exports 
                from Iran, as potential easing of sanctions could lead 
                to Iran regaining market share;
                    (C) facilitating assistance to the countries of 
                Europe and Eurasia to diversify their energy sources 
                and achieve energy security by providing another option 
                to protect against possible unstable supply flows; and
                    (D) allowing the United States to use national 
                energy policy to further United States interests 
                abroad; and
            (7) the United States should remove all restrictions on the 
        export of domestically produced crude oil or crude oil of any 
        origin, which will increase economic benefits, enhance energy 
        security, improve the trade deficit, and promote key national 
        security interests of the United States domestically and around 
        the world.
    (d) Exceptions and Presidential Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The President may impose export licensing 
        requirements or other restrictions on the export of crude oil 
        from the United States for a period of not more than 1 year, 
        if--
                    (A) the President declares a national emergency and 
                formally notices the declaration of a national 
                emergency in the Federal Register;
                    (B) the export licensing requirements or other 
                restrictions on the export of crude oil from the United 
                States under this section apply to 1 or more countries, 
                persons, or organizations in the context of sanctions 
                or trade restrictions imposed by the United States for 
                reasons of national security by the Executive authority 
                of the President or by Congress; or
                    (C) the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with 
                the Secretary of Energy, finds and reports to the 
                President that--
                            (i) the export of crude oil pursuant to 
                        this section has caused sustained material oil 
                        supply shortages or sustained oil prices 
                        significantly above world market levels that 
                        are directly attributable to the export of 
                        crude oil produced in the United States; and
                            (ii) those supply shortages or price 
                        increases have caused or are likely to cause 
                        sustained material adverse employment effects 
                        in the United States.
            (2) Renewal.--Any requirement or restriction imposed 
        pursuant to paragraph (1) may be renewed for 1 or more 
        additional periods of not more than 1 year each.
    (e) GAO Review and Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 2 years, the 
        Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review 
        of--
                    (A) energy production in the United States; and
                    (B) the effects, if any, of crude oil exports from 
                the United States on consumers, independent refiners, 
                and shipbuilding and ship repair yards.
            (2) Contents of report.--Not later than 1 year after 
        commencing each review under paragraph (1), the Comptroller 
        General of the United States shall submit to the Committees on 
        Energy and Natural Resources, Banking, Housing, and Urban 
        Affairs, Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and Foreign 
        Relations of the Senate and the Committees on Natural 
        Resources, Energy and Commerce, Financial Services, and Foreign 
        Affairs of the House of Representatives a report that 
        includes--
                    (A) a statement of the principal findings of the 
                review; and
                    (B) recommendations for Congress and the President 
                to address any job loss in the shipbuilding and ship 
                repair industry or adverse impacts on consumers and 
                refiners that the Comptroller General of the United 
                States attributes to unencumbered crude oil exports in 
                the United States.

SEC. 502. REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of the department in which the Bureau of 
Safety and Environmental Enforcement (referred to in this section as 
the ``BSEE'') is operating (referred to in this section as the 
``Secretary'') shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and 
Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on 
Appropriations and Natural Resources of the House of Representatives an 
analysis of the proposed regulations and rules of the BSEE relating 
to--
            (1) offshore oil and gas drilling, completions, workovers, 
        and decommissioning, including the proposed rule entitled ``Oil 
        and Gas and Sulphur Operations in the Outer Continental Shelf--
        Blowout Preventer Systems and Well Control'' (80 Fed. Reg. 
        21504 (April 17, 2015)); and
            (2) exploratory drilling activities on the Arctic 
        Continental Shelf of the United States, including the proposed 
        rule entitled ``Oil and Gas and Sulphur Operations on the Outer 
        Continental Shelf--Requirements for Exploratory Drilling on the 
        Arctic Outer Continental Shelf'' (80 Fed. Reg. 21670 (April 20, 
        2015)).
    (b) Contents of Analysis.--The analysis under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) a discussion of any new operational, management, design 
        and construction, financial, and other mandates that would be 
        imposed on contractors and operators;
            (2) an estimate of all associated direct and indirect 
        operational, management, personnel, training, record keeping, 
        and other costs; and
            (3) an identification and justification of improvements to 
        safety claimed in the proposed regulation or rule.
    (c) Limitations.--With respect to the proposed regulations and 
rules described in subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall not--
            (1) issue any proposed, interim, or final regulation or 
        rule earlier than 180 days after the submission of the report 
        required by subsection (a); or
            (2) issue any final regulation or rule prior to issuing 
        revised proposed regulations or rules that take into account 
        the findings from the report and providing notice and an 
        opportunity for public comment.
                                                       Calendar No. 217

114th CONGRESS

  1st Session

                                S. 2011

                          [Report No. 114-137]

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

 To provide for reforms of the administration of the Outer Continental 
          Shelf of the United States, and for other purposes.

_______________________________________________________________________

                           September 9, 2015

                 Read twice and placed on the calendar
