[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3518 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3518

  To impose nonnuclear sanctions with respect to Iran, and for other 
                               purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 7, 2016

     Mr. Rubio (for himself, Mr. Kirk, Ms. Ayotte, and Mr. Cornyn) 
introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred to the 
            Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To impose nonnuclear sanctions with respect to Iran, and for other 
                               purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Nonnuclear Iran 
Sanctions Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Findings.
Sec. 4. Statement of policy.
      TITLE I--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO ENTITIES OWNED BY IRAN'S 
                       REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS

Subtitle A--Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps Sanctions, Watch List, and 
                                 Report

Sec. 101. Findings.
Sec. 102. Imposition of sanctions with respect to the IRGC.
Sec. 103. Imposition of sanctions against entities owned in whole or in 
                            part by IRGC.
Sec. 104. IRGC watch list and report.
Sec. 105. Imposition of sanctions against Mahan Air.
Sec. 106. Additional measures on Mahan Air.
Sec. 107. Modification and extension of reporting requirements on the 
                            use of certain Iranian seaports by foreign 
                            vessels and use of foreign airports by 
                            sanctioned Iranian air carriers.
                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

Sec. 111. Authority of States and local governments to divest from 
                            persons that engage in investment or 
                            business activities with Iran's 
                            Revolutionary Guard Corps.
Sec. 112. Safe harbor for changes in investment policies by asset 
                            managers.
                        Subtitle C--Termination

Sec. 121. Termination.
      TITLE II--SANCTIONS RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN IRAN

Sec. 201. Findings.
Sec. 202. Expansion of list of persons involved in human rights abuses 
                            in Iran.
Sec. 203. Identification of, and imposition of sanctions with respect 
                            to, certain Iranian individuals.
Sec. 204. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who conduct 
                            transactions with or on behalf of certain 
                            Iranian individuals.
Sec. 205. Mandatory sanctions with respect to financial institutions 
                            that engage in certain transactions on 
                            behalf of persons involved in human rights 
                            abuses or that export sensitive technology 
                            to Iran.
Sec. 206. United States support for the people of Iran.
Sec. 207. United States Special Coordinator on Human Rights and 
                            Democracy in Iran.
Sec. 208. Broadcasting to Iran.
Sec. 209. Report on United States citizens detained by Iran.
Sec. 210. Sense of Congress on establishment of multilateral mechanism 
                            to promote human rights in Iran.
Sec. 211. Sense of Congress on role of the United Nations in promoting 
                            human rights in Iran.
 TITLE III--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM OF 
                                  IRAN

Sec. 301. Findings.
Sec. 302. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 303. Expansion of sanctions with respect to efforts by Iran to 
                            acquire ballistic missile and related 
                            technology.
Sec. 304. Imposition of sanctions with respect to ballistic missile 
                            program of Iran.
Sec. 305. Expansion of mandatory sanctions with respect to financial 
                            institutions that engage in certain 
                            transactions relating to ballistic missile 
                            capabilities of Iran.
Sec. 306. Disclosure to the Securities and Exchange Commission of 
                            activities with certain sectors of Iran 
                            that support the ballistic missile program 
                            of Iran.
Sec. 307. Regulations.
    TITLE IV--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN IRANIAN TRANSACTIONS

     Subtitle A--Sanctions Relating to Iran's Support of Terrorism

Sec. 401. Findings.
Sec. 402. Special measures with respect to Iran relating to its 
                            designation as a jurisdiction of primary 
                            money laundering concern.
Subtitle B--Prohibition on and Other Sanctions Relating to Transactions 
                               With Iran

Sec. 411. Prohibition on facilitation of certain transactions involving 
                            the Government of Iran or Iranian persons.
Sec. 412. Reports on, and authorization of imposition of sanctions with 
                            respect to, offshore United States dollar 
                            clearing for transactions involving the 
                            Government of Iran or Iranian persons.
Sec. 413. Clarification that freezing of assets of Iranian financial 
                            institutions includes assets in possession 
                            or control of a United States person 
                            pursuant to a U-turn transaction.
                         TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS

Sec. 501. Modification of requirements relating to state sponsors of 
                            terrorism.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Entity.--The term ``entity'' means a corporation, 
        business association, partnership, trust, society, or any other 
        entity.
            (2) Foreign person.--The term ``foreign person'' means a 
        person that is not a United States person.
            (3) IRGC.--The term ``IRGC'' means Iran's Revolutionary 
        Guard Corps.
            (4) Person.--The term ``person'' means an individual or 
        entity.
            (5) United states person.--The term ``United States 
        person'' means--
                    (A) a United States citizen or an alien lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence to the United States; 
                or
                    (B) an entity organized under the laws of the 
                United States or of any jurisdiction within the United 
                States, including a foreign branch of such an entity.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) Secretary of State John Kerry stated on July 23, 2015, 
        ``We will not violate the [Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action 
        (JCPOA)] if we use our authorities to impose sanctions on Iran 
        for terrorism, human rights, missiles, or other nonnuclear 
        reasons. And the JCPOA does not provide Iran any relief from 
        United States sanctions under any of those authorities or other 
        authorities.''.
            (2) President Barack Obama stated on April 2, 2015, ``Other 
        American sanctions on Iran for its support for terrorism, its 
        human rights abuses, its ballistic missile program, will 
        continue to be fully enforced.''.
            (3) Director of National Intelligence James Clapper wrote 
        on February 9, 2016, ``[T]he Islamic Republic of Iran presents 
        an enduring threat to U.S. national interests because of its 
        support to regional terrorist and militant groups and the Assad 
        regime, as well as its development of advanced military 
        capabilities. Tehran views itself as leading the `axis of 
        resistance' which includes the Assad regime and subnational 
        groups aligned with Iran, especially Lebanese Hezbollah and 
        Iraqi Shia militants . . . Tehran might even use American 
        citizens detained when entering Iranian territories as 
        bargaining pieces to achieve financial or political concessions 
        in line with their strategic intentions.''.
            (4) Director of National Intelligence James Clapper wrote 
        on June 3, 2015, ``The United States Intelligence Community 
        continues to assess that Iran and Hezbollah directly threaten 
        the interests of the United States and our allies and that 
        Hezbollah remains a global terrorist threat. Iran remains the 
        foremost state sponsor of terrorism and is increasing its 
        ability to influence regional crises and conduct terrorism. 
        Iran is doing this largely through the Islamic Revolutionary 
        Guard Corps-Qods Force (IRGC-QF) and Lebanese Hezbollah, as 
        well as the support and use of sectarian political and militant 
        proxies closely aligned with the IRGC-QF and its anti-Western 
        ideology.''.
            (5) Secretary of the Treasury Jacob Lew stated on July 14, 
        2015, ``We harbor no illusions about the Iranian government's 
        nefarious activities beyond its nuclear program. Make no 
        mistake: We will continue to impose and aggressively enforce 
        sanctions to combat Iran's support for terrorist groups, its 
        fomenting of violence in the region, and its perpetration of 
        human rights abuses.''.
            (6) Jake Sullivan, at the time Deputy Assistant to 
        President Obama and National Security Advisor to Vice President 
        Biden, stated on May 1, 2014, ``The wording of the Joint Plan 
        of Action . . . speaks to the issue of nuclear-related 
        sanctions. And that word was chosen very carefully, nuclear-
        related, because we have made clear that sanctions relating to 
        terrorism and sanctions relating to human rights violations are 
        not covered by the discussions that we are having on the 
        nuclear file and that we are prepared to continue to follow 
        through on that . . . I can tell you, as a matter of policy, 
        this administration is committed to continuing to enforce and 
        follow through on that set of sanctions.''.
            (7) Jake Sullivan further stated on May 1, 2014, ``We must 
        continue to speak out against the gross violations of human 
        rights and fundamental freedoms in Iran and the hateful anti-
        Semitic rhetoric from some of its leaders, and we must keep 
        providing support and assistance to those brave Iranians 
        seeking to have their voices heard . . . we've got to stand up 
        for our values, and we need to stand against the human rights 
        abuses and violations of fundamental freedom, including 
        religious freedom, happening in Iran. And we have to provide 
        real support to those voices on the ground who want to be 
        heard, who want to push for a better future . . . this is an 
        important line of effort that has to continue regardless of 
        what is happening on the nuclear file or on any other issue.''.
            (8) Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif stated on 
        February 4, 2016, ``Rebuilding the confidence of the banks that 
        the United States will not re-intervene in their relations with 
        Iran may require some further assurance from the United 
        States.''.

SEC. 4. STATEMENT OF POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States--
            (1) to continue to impose pressure on the Government of 
        Iran for its role as the foremost state sponsor of terrorism, 
        its continued development of ballistic missiles, its ongoing 
        human rights abuses against the citizens of Iran and other 
        peoples, and its unjust detention of United States citizens;
            (2) to continue to use sanctions as an element of that 
        pressure and to discourage financial institutions and entities 
        from engaging in business and commerce with Iranian entities 
        tied to Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps and to Iranian 
        officials involved in human rights abuses;
            (3) not to encourage any foreign financial institution or 
        other foreign entity to do business in Iran; and
            (4) not to provide any assurances regarding protections 
        from United States law or penalties to those foreign entities 
        that decide to engage or reengage in business and commerce with 
        Iran.

      TITLE I--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO ENTITIES OWNED BY IRAN'S 
                       REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS

Subtitle A--Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps Sanctions, Watch List, and 
                                 Report

SEC. 101. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The IRGC threatens the national security of the United 
        States and United States allies.
            (2) The IRGC is the key entity carrying out the efforts of 
        the Government of Iran to sow chaos and instability throughout 
        the Middle East, including threatening activities against the 
        United States, Israel, and other allies and partners of the 
        United States in the region.
            (3) The IRGC provides direct sponsorship and support to 
        numerous foreign terrorist organizations, including Hamas, 
        Hezbollah, and Palestinian Islamic Jihad.
            (4) According to General Joseph Dunford, Chairman of the 
        Joint Chiefs of Staff, the IRGC is responsible for the deaths 
        of more than 500 members of the United States Armed Forces in 
        Afghanistan and Iraq, including through the provision of 
        explosive materials to Shia militias in Iraq.
            (5) The IRGC is complicit in the ongoing slaughter of the 
        people of Syria as it maintains support for, and seeks to 
        preserve, the regime of Bashar al-Assad, which is responsible 
        for hundreds of thousands of deaths and millions of displaced 
        citizens of Syria.
            (6) The Government of Iran and the IRGC have been 
        responsible for the repeated testing of illegal ballistic 
        missiles capable of carrying a nuclear device, including 
        observed tests in October and November 2015 and March 2016 that 
        violated United Nations Security Council resolutions.
            (7) The United States holds the IRGC responsible for severe 
        and continuing human rights violations against the people of 
        Iran, including unlawful arrests, torture, and harassment.
            (8) The United States upholds sanctions against the IRGC 
        for its proliferation-related activities and human rights 
        abuses, and also against Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps-Qods 
        Force for its support of terrorism.
            (9) The Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department 
        of the Treasury includes the IRGC on the list of specially 
        designated nationals and blocked persons (in this section 
        referred to as the ``SDN list'').
            (10) Pursuant to section 561.405 of title 31, Code of 
        Federal Regulations, entities owned by the IRGC, directly or 
        indirectly, with 50 percent or greater interest are subject to 
        sanctions and may be listed by the Office of Foreign Assets 
        Control on the SDN list. Such entities' property and interest 
        in property are blocked regardless of whether such entities are 
        included on the SDN List. That regulation, commonly termed the 
        ``50 percent rule'', is the standard used by the Office of 
        Foreign Assets Control when determining ownership of entities 
        by blocked or sanctioned persons.
            (11) Under section 218 of the Iran Threat Reduction and 
        Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8725), the term ``own 
        or control'', with respect to an entity, means--
                    (A) holding more than 50 percent of the equity 
                interest by vote or value in the entity;
                    (B) holding a majority of seats on the board of 
                directors of the entity; or
                    (C) otherwise controlling the actions, policies, or 
                personnel decisions of the entity.
            (12) The IRGC maintains a powerful and expansive presence 
        throughout Iran's financial, commercial, and oil and energy 
        sectors, owning, controlling, operating, and influencing 
        Iranian entities while producing revenues estimated in the 
        billions of dollars. According to the Department of the 
        Treasury, ``The IRGC has a growing presence in Iran's financial 
        and commercial sectors and extensive economic interests in the 
        defense production, construction, and oil industries, 
        controlling billions of dollars in corporate business.''
            (13) The IRGC has continuously engaged in sanctions evasion 
        and deceptive business practices to conceal its ownership or 
        control of Iranian entities, owning numerous Iranian entities 
        that are not subject to sanctions because the IRGC has less 
        than a 50-percent ownership interest, leaving such entities 
        unsanctioned and open to business.
            (14) As sanctions are lifted pursuant to the Joint 
        Comprehensive Plan of Action and Iran becomes more open to 
        international commerce, the international community must be 
        aware of any and all entities that are owned, controlled, 
        operated, or influenced by the IRGC or its agents or 
        affiliates, including those entities that do not make the 
        threshold to be covered by the ``50 percent rule''.
            (15) There is no prohibition in section 219 of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) that prevents 
        the Secretary of State from designating entities affiliated 
        with the government of a foreign country as a foreign terrorist 
        organization.
            (16) The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the 
        Department of the Treasury issued a notice of proposed 
        rulemaking on August 4, 2014 (79 Fed. Reg. 45151; relating to 
        customer due diligence requirements for financial 
        institutions), proposing to amend chapter X of title 31, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, to provide greater transparency to 
        allow the identification of persons that own, control, and 
        profit from entities to which banks and other financial 
        institutions provide services. The proposed rule, known also as 
        the ``beneficial ownership requirement'', would require 
        financial institutions to identify and verify any individual 
        who owns 25 percent or more of an entity that is a customer and 
        an individual who controls such an entity.
            (17) David Cohen, at the time Under Secretary of the 
        Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, stated on 
        July 30, 2014, ``The beneficial ownership requirement is 
        intended to provide us with an important new tool to track down 
        the real people behind companies that abuse our financial 
        system to secretly move and launder their illicit gains. Along 
        with meeting our international commitments, this rule would 
        make our financial system more transparent by exposing the 
        activities of illicit actors who will no longer be able to hide 
        behind their anonymity.''.
            (18) On October 12, 2011, the Department of the Treasury 
        imposed sanctions on Mahan Air for providing financial, 
        material, and technological support to Iran's Revolutionary 
        Guards Corps-Qods Force. The Department of the Treasury noted 
        that Mahan Air also provides transportation, funds transfers, 
        and personal travel services to Iran's Revolutionary Guards 
        Corps-Qods Force. The Department of the Treasury further noted 
        that Mahan Air provides transportation services to Hezbollah, 
        which was designated as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist 
        under Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; relating to 
        blocking property and prohibiting transactions with persons who 
        commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism) in October 
        2001, and Mahan Air has transported personnel, weapons, and 
        goods on behalf of Hezbollah.
            (19) David Cohen, at the time Under Secretary of the 
        Treasury for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, stated on 
        October 12, 2011, ``Mahan Air's close coordination with [Iran's 
        Revolutionary Guards Corps-Qods Force (IRGC-QF)]--secretly 
        ferrying operatives, weapons and funds on its flights--reveals 
        yet another facet of the IRGC's extensive infiltration of 
        Iran's commercial sector to facilitate its support for 
        terrorism. Following the revelation about the IRGC-QF's use of 
        the international financial system to fund its murder-for-hire 
        plot, today's action highlights further the undeniable risks of 
        doing business with Iran.''.

SEC. 102. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE IRGC.

    (a) In General.--Beginning on the date that is 90 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose the 
sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to the IRGC and 
foreign persons that are officials, agents, or affiliates of the IRGC.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) Sanctions applicable with respect to a foreign person 
        pursuant to Executive Order 13224 (50 U.S.C. 1701 note; 
        relating to blocking property and prohibiting transactions with 
        persons who commit, threaten to commit, or support terrorism).
            (2) Sanctions applicable with respect to an entity that is 
        designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 
        219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).

SEC. 103. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS AGAINST ENTITIES OWNED IN WHOLE OR IN 
              PART BY IRGC.

    (a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to--
            (1) an entity, regardless of whether the entity is included 
        on the list of specially designated nationals and blocked 
        persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
        the Department of the Treasury, that is owned, directly or 
        indirectly, by a 25 percent or greater interest--
                    (A) by the IRGC or an agent or affiliate of the 
                IRGC; or
                    (B) collectively by a group of individuals that are 
                members of the IRGC or an agent or affiliate of the 
                IRGC, even if none of such individuals hold a 25 
                percent or greater interest in the entity;
            (2) a person that controls, manages, or directs an entity 
        described in paragraph (1); or
            (3) an individual who is on the board of directors of an 
        entity described in paragraph (1).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
        accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all property and 
        interests in property of any person subject to subsection (a) 
        if such property and interests in property are in the United 
        States, come within the United States, or are or come within 
        the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
        shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
        subsection (a) that is an alien.
    (c) Exceptions and Special Rules.--
            (1) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
        requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for 
        purposes of subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Subsection (b)(2) shall not apply to the head of 
        state of Iran, or necessary staff of that head of state, if 
        admission to the United States is necessary to permit the 
        United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the 
        Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 
        26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the 
        United Nations and the United States.
    (d) Applicability of Additional Sanctions.--A person with respect 
to which the President imposes sanctions under subsection (a) shall be 
considered an agent or affiliate of the IRGC for purposes of sections 
104 and 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8513 and 8513b).

SEC. 104. IRGC WATCH LIST AND REPORT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish, 
maintain, and publish in the Federal Register a list (to be known as 
the ``IRGC Watch List'') of--
            (1) each entity in which the IRGC or an agent or affiliate 
        of the IRGC has an ownership interest of less than 25 percent;
            (2) each entity in which the IRGC does not have an 
        ownership interest if the IRGC or an agent or affiliate of the 
        IRGC maintains a presence on the board of directors of the 
        entity or otherwise influences the actions, policies, or 
        personnel decisions of the entity; and
            (3) each person that controls, manages, or directs an 
        entity described in paragraph (1) or (2).
    (b) Reports Required.--
            (1) Treasury report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
                thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit 
                to Congress a report that includes--
                            (i) the list required by subsection (a) 
                        and, in the case of any report submitted under 
                        this subparagraph after the first such report, 
                        any changes to the list since the submission of 
                        the preceding such report; and
                            (ii) an assessment of the role of the IRGC 
                        and its agents and affiliates in, and its 
                        penetration into, the economy of Iran.
                    (B) Form of report.--Each report required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified 
                form, but may include a classified annex if necessary.
            (2) Government accountability office report.--
                    (A) In general.--The Comptroller General of the 
                United States shall--
                            (i) conduct a review of the list required 
                        by subsection (a); and
                            (ii) not later than 60 days after each 
                        report required by paragraph (1) is submitted 
                        to Congress, submit to Congress a report--
                                    (I) on the review conducted under 
                                clause (i); and
                                    (II) that includes a list of 
                                persons not included in the list 
                                required by subsection (a) that qualify 
                                for inclusion in that list.
                    (B) Consultations.--In preparing the report 
                required by subparagraph (A)(ii), the Comptroller 
                General shall consult with nongovernmental 
                organizations.

SEC. 105. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS AGAINST MAHAN AIR.

    (a) In General.--The President shall impose the sanctions described 
in subsection (b) with respect to--
            (1) a person that provides, directly or indirectly, goods, 
        services, technology, or financial services, including the sale 
        or provision of aircraft or aircraft parts, fuel, ramp 
        assistance, baggage and cargo handling, catering, refueling, 
        ticketing, check-in services, crew handling, or other services 
        related to flight operations, to Mahan Air or its agents or 
        affiliates, or for aircraft of Mahan Air or its agents or 
        affiliates;
            (2) a person that controls, manages, or directs Mahan Air 
        or any of its agents or affiliates;
            (3) an individual who is on the board of directors of Mahan 
        Air or any of its agents or affiliates; or
            (4) an entity in which Mahan Air or an agent or affiliate 
        of Mahan Air that owns, directly or indirectly, a 25 percent or 
        greater interest, regardless of whether the entity is included 
        on the list of specially designated nationals and blocked 
        persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
        the Department of the Treasury.
    (b) Sanctions Described.--
            (1) Blocking of property.--The President shall block, in 
        accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), all transactions in all property and 
        interests in property of any person subject to subsection (a) 
        if such property and interests in property are in the United 
        States, come within the United States, or are or come within 
        the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Exclusion from united states.--The Secretary of State 
        shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to 
        subsection (a) that is an alien.
    (c) Exceptions and Special Rules.--
            (1) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--The 
        requirements of section 202 of the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply for 
        purposes of subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Subsection (b)(2) shall not apply to the head of 
        state of Iran, or necessary staff of that head of state, if 
        admission to the United States is necessary to permit the 
        United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the 
        Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 
        26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the 
        United Nations and the United States.
    (d) Applicability of Additional Sanctions.--A person with respect 
to which the President imposes sanctions under subsection (a) shall be 
considered an agent or affiliate of the IRGC for purposes of sections 
104 and 104A of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8513 and 8513b).

SEC. 106. ADDITIONAL MEASURES ON MAHAN AIR.

    (a) In General.--The President shall require each covered person to 
provide a certification to the President that the person does not 
conduct transactions with any entity that provides, directly or 
indirectly, goods, services, technology, or financial services, 
including the sale or provision of aircraft or aircraft parts, fuel, 
ramp assistance, baggage or cargo handling, catering, refueling, 
ticketing, check-in services, crew handling, or other services related 
to flight operations--
            (1) to Mahan Air or its agents or affiliates;
            (2) for aircraft owned or operated by Mahan Air or its 
        agents or affiliates; or
            (3) to a person described in section 105(a).
    (b) Reports Required.--
            (1) DNI list.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of the Act, and annually 
                thereafter, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
                consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall 
                submit to Congress a list of each entity described in 
                subsection (a).
                    (B) Form of list.--Each list required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified 
                form, but may include a classified annex if necessary.
            (2) Report.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the 
                date of the enactment of the Act, and annually 
                thereafter, the President shall submit to Congress a 
                report that includes--
                            (i) a list of countries where aircraft of 
                        Mahan Air or its agents or affiliates land;
                            (ii) a description of the efforts of the 
                        President to encourage countries to prohibit 
                        aircraft of Mahan Air or its agents or 
                        affiliates from landing in the territory of 
                        those countries; and
                            (iii) if the President has not imposed 
                        sanctions under section 105(a) with respect to 
                        any entity described in subsection (a), an 
                        explanation for why the President has not 
                        imposed such sanctions.
                    (B) Form of report.--Each report required by 
                subparagraph (A) shall be submitted in unclassified 
                form, but may include a classified annex if necessary.
            (3) Government accountability office report.--
                    (A) In general.--The Comptroller General of the 
                United States shall--
                            (i) conduct a review of the certifications 
                        required by subsection (a), the lists required 
                        by paragraph (1), and the reports required by 
                        paragraph (2); and
                            (ii) not later than 60 days after the 
                        submission of each list required by paragraph 
                        (1) and each report required by paragraph (2), 
                        submit to Congress a report--
                                    (I) on the review conducted under 
                                clause (i); and
                                    (II) assessing the implementation 
                                of section 105.
                    (B) Consultations.--In preparing the report 
                required by subparagraph (A)(ii), the Comptroller 
                General shall consult with nongovernmental 
                organizations.
    (c) Covered Person Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
person'' means--
            (1) an air carrier or foreign air carrier, as those terms 
        are defined in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code; 
        or
            (2) a United States person that exports aircraft or 
        components for aircraft.

SEC. 107. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS ON THE 
              USE OF CERTAIN IRANIAN SEAPORTS BY FOREIGN VESSELS AND 
              USE OF FOREIGN AIRPORTS BY SANCTIONED IRANIAN AIR 
              CARRIERS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1252(a) of the Iran Freedom and Counter-
Proliferation Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8808(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``2016'' and inserting ``2019'';
            (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (4) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) a description of all efforts the Department of State 
        has made to encourage other countries to prohibit the use of 
        air space and airports by Iranian air carriers described in 
        paragraph (2) during the period specified in subsection (b).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with respect 
to reports required to be submitted under section 1252(a) of the Iran 
Freedom and Counter-Proliferation Act of 2012 on or after such date of 
enactment.

                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

SEC. 111. AUTHORITY OF STATES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO DIVEST FROM 
              PERSONS THAT ENGAGE IN INVESTMENT OR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 
              WITH IRAN'S REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title III of the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-158; 126 
Stat. 1247) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 313. AUTHORITY OF STATES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENTS TO DIVEST FROM 
              PERSONS THAT ENGAGE IN INVESTMENT OR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES 
              WITH IRAN'S REVOLUTIONARY GUARD CORPS.

    ``(a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
United States should support the decision of any State or local 
government that for moral, prudential, or reputational reasons divests 
from, or prohibits the investment of assets of the State or local 
government in, a person that engages in investment or business 
activities with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or a person described 
in subsection (c), as long as Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps is 
subject to economic sanctions imposed by the United States.
    ``(b) Authority To Divest.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, a State or local government may adopt and enforce measures that 
meet the requirements of subsection (e) to divest the assets of the 
State or local government from, or prohibit investment of the assets of 
the State or local government in, any person that the State or local 
government determines, using credible information available to the 
public, engages in investment or business activities described in 
subsection (d) with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or a person 
described in subsection (c).
    ``(c) Persons Described.--A person described in this subsection 
is--
            ``(1) an entity, regardless of whether the entity is 
        included on the list of specially designated nationals and 
        blocked persons maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets 
        Control of the Department of the Treasury, that is owned, 
        directly or indirectly, by a 25 percent or greater interest--
                    ``(A) by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or an 
                agent or affiliate of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps; 
                or
                    ``(B) collectively by a group of individuals that 
                are members of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or an 
                agent or affiliate of Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps, 
                even if none of such individuals hold a 25 percent or 
                greater interest in the entity;
            ``(2) a person that controls, manages, or directs an entity 
        described in paragraph (1);
            ``(3) an individual who is on the board of directors of an 
        entity described in paragraph (1); or
            ``(4) a person on the IRGC Watch List required by section 
        104 of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016.
    ``(d) Investment or Business Activities Described.--A person 
engages in investment or business activities with Iran's Revolutionary 
Guard Corps or a person described in subsection (c) if the person--
            ``(1) has a financial investment in Iran's Revolutionary 
        Guard Corps or such a person;
            ``(2) owns, in whole or in part, such a person; or
            ``(3) is a financial institution that extends credit or 
        financing to another person, for 45 days or more, if that 
        person will use the credit or financing for investment in a 
        person described in subsection (c).
    ``(e) Requirements.--Any measure taken by a State or local 
government under subsection (b) shall meet the following requirements:
            ``(1) Notice.--The State or local government shall provide 
        written notice to each person to which a measure is to be 
        applied.
            ``(2) Timing.--The measure shall apply to a person not 
        earlier than the date that is 90 days after the date on which 
        written notice is provided to the person under paragraph (1).
            ``(3) Opportunity for hearing.--The State or local 
        government shall provide an opportunity to comment in writing 
        to each person to which a measure is to be applied. If the 
        person demonstrates to the State or local government that the 
        person does not engage in investment or business activities 
        described in subsection (d) with Iran's Revolutionary Guard 
        Corps or a person described in subsection (c), the measure 
        shall not apply to the person.
            ``(4) Sense of congress on avoiding erroneous targeting.--
        It is the sense of Congress that a State or local government 
        should not adopt a measure under subsection (b) with respect to 
        a person unless the State or local government has made every 
        effort to avoid erroneously targeting the person and has 
        verified that the person engages in investment or business 
        activities described in subsection (d) with Iran's 
        Revolutionary Guard Corps or a person described in subsection 
        (c).
    ``(f) Notice to Department of Justice.--Not later than 30 days 
after adopting a measure pursuant to subsection (b), a State or local 
government shall submit written notice to the Attorney General 
describing the measure.
    ``(g) Nonpreemption.--A measure of a State or local government 
authorized under subsection (b) or (i) is not preempted by any Federal 
law or regulation.
    ``(h) Effective Date.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2) or 
        subsection (i), this section applies to measures adopted by a 
        State or local government before, on, or after the date of the 
        enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016.
            ``(2) Notice requirements.--Except as provided in 
        subsection (i), subsections (e) and (f) apply to measures 
        adopted by a State or local government on or after the date of 
        the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016.
    ``(i) Authorization for Prior Enacted Measures.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        this section or any other provision of law, a State or local 
        government may enforce a measure (without regard to the 
        requirements of subsection (e), except as provided in paragraph 
        (2)) adopted by the State or local government before the date 
        of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016 
        that provides for the divestment of assets of the State or 
        local government from, or prohibits the investment of the 
        assets of the State or local government in, any person that the 
        State or local government determines, using credible 
        information available to the public, engages in investment or 
        business activities with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or a 
        person described in subsection (c) (determined without regard 
        to subsection (d)) or other business or investment activities 
        that are identified in the measure.
            ``(2) Application of notice requirements.--A measure 
        described in paragraph (1) shall be subject to the requirements 
        of paragraphs (1) and (2) and the first sentence of paragraph 
        (3) of subsection (e) on and after the date that is 2 years 
        after the date of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran 
        Sanctions Act of 2016.
    ``(j) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or any other 
provision of law authorizing sanctions with respect to Iran shall be 
construed to abridge the authority of a State to issue and enforce 
rules governing the safety, soundness, and solvency of a financial 
institution subject to its jurisdiction or the business of insurance 
pursuant to the Act of March 9, 1945 (15 U.S.C. 1011 et seq.) (commonly 
known as the `McCarran-Ferguson Act').
    ``(k) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Assets.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the term `assets' refers to public 
                monies and includes any pension, retirement, annuity, 
                or endowment fund, or similar instrument, that is 
                controlled by a State or local government.
                    ``(B) Exception.--The term `assets' does not 
                include employee benefit plans covered by title I of 
                the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
                U.S.C. 1001 et seq.).
            ``(2) Investment.--The `investment' includes--
                    ``(A) a commitment or contribution of funds or 
                property;
                    ``(B) a loan or other extension of credit; and
                    ``(C) the entry into or renewal of a contract for 
                goods or services.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 is amended by adding after 
the item relating to section 312 the following:

``Sec. 313. Authority of States and local governments to divest from 
                            persons that engage in investment or 
                            business activities with Iran's 
                            Revolutionary Guard Corps.''.

SEC. 112. SAFE HARBOR FOR CHANGES IN INVESTMENT POLICIES BY ASSET 
              MANAGERS.

    Section 13(c)(1) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 (15 U.S.C. 
80a-13(c)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) engage in investment or business activities 
                described in subsection (d) of section 313 of the Iran 
                Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 
                with Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps or a person 
                described in subsection (c) of that section.''.

                        Subtitle C--Termination

SEC. 121. TERMINATION.

    This title and the amendments made by this title shall terminate on 
the date that is 30 days after the date on which the President makes 
the certification described in section 401(a) of the Comprehensive Iran 
Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
8551(a)).

      TITLE II--SANCTIONS RELATING TO HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES IN IRAN

SEC. 201. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) According to Freedom House, none of the elections held 
        in Iran after the Islamic revolution in 1979 have been regarded 
        as free or fair.
            (2) According to the October 2015 report by the United 
        Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in 
        the Islamic Republic of Iran, Iran continues to execute more 
        individuals per capita than any other country in the world. 
        Executions have been rising at an exponential rate since 2005 
        and peaked in 2015, when human rights groups reported a 
        shocking 830 executions between January and November 2015, and 
        as many as 1,084 executions during the entire year.
            (3) According to an October 2015 United Nations report on 
        human rights in Iran, ``Some 150 Sunni Muslims are in prison on 
        charges related to their beliefs and religion activities. More 
        than 30 are on death row after having been convicted of `enmity 
        against God' in unfair judicial proceedings.''.
            (4) In 2015, Iran was rated as ``not free'' in a report on 
        the freedom of the press by Freedom House for a lack of flow of 
        independent information and the inability of news outlets, 
        whether through print, broadcast, or the Internet, to operate 
        freely and without fear of repercussions.
            (5) Journalists, social media activists, writers, and human 
        rights activists are routinely arrested and interrogated by 
        Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps, the Ministry of Intelligence, 
        and cyber-policing units.
            (6) According to the Committee to Protect Journalists--
                    (A) from the 2015 prison census, Iran is one of the 
                leading jailers of journalists, with 19 behind bars;
                    (B) Iran ranks as first among countries from which 
                journalists have fled into exile between 2009 and 2015; 
                and
                    (C) in 2015, Iran ranked number 7 among the top 10 
                most censored countries in the world.
            (7) According to the United Nations Special Rapporteur on 
        the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran, 
        as of January 2014, there were 895 political prisoners and 
        prisoners of conscience unjustly detained in Iran.
            (8) On February 22, 2016, 80-year-old Baquer Namazi, a 
        United States citizen and the father of imprisoned dual United 
        States-Iran citizen Siamak Namazi, was arrested while visiting 
        family in Tehran and taken to Evin Prison without charge. 
        Baquer Namazi suffers from a serious heart condition that 
        requires special medical attention.
            (9) On January 12, 2016, Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps 
        unjustly detained 10 United States sailors whose vessel had 
        misnavigated into Iranian territorial waters but had a right to 
        innocent passage under international law. While the United 
        States sailors were released after 16 hours, Iran's 
        Revolutionary Guard Corps released humiliating videos of the 
        capture of the sailors at gunpoint and their detention for 
        propagandistic purposes.
            (10) On October 15, 2015, Siamak Namazi was arrested while 
        visiting Tehran and detained in Evin Prison, where he remains 
        held by Iranian officials without charge.
            (11) In July 2014, Jason Rezaian, a reporter from the 
        United States working for the Washington Post, was unjustly 
        arrested and held in Iran while his health deteriorated until 
        his release on January 16, 2016.
            (12) On January 27, 2013, Saeed Abedini, a pastor from the 
        United States, was sentenced to an 8-year prison term in Iran 
        based on charges relating to his Christian faith and had been 
        unjustly incarcerated since September 26, 2012, despite serious 
        health issues until his release on January 16, 2016.
            (13) In August 2011, Amir Hekmati, a veteran of the Armed 
        Forces of the United States, was unjustly detained while 
        visiting his family in Iran and remained in a prison in Iran on 
        false espionage charges until his release on January 16, 2016.
            (14) In March 2007, Robert Levinson, a former agent of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation, disappeared in Iran during a 
        business trip and Iran has refused to cooperate in the 
        investigation into his disappearance. Mr. Levinson is the 
        longest unjustly held United States citizens in history.
            (15) The principal leaders of the Green Revolution in Iran, 
        Mir Hussein Moussavi and Mehdi Karroubi, have been under house 
        arrest since February 2011.
            (16) The United States has designated Iran as a country of 
        particular concern for religious freedom pursuant to section 
        402(b)(1) of the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998 
        (22 U.S.C. 6442(b)(1)) for severe violations of religious 
        freedom in every year from 1999 through 2015.
            (17) In 2015, the United States Commission on International 
        Religious Freedom found in its annual report that the 
        Government of Iran ``continues to engage in systematic, 
        ongoing, and egregious violations of religious freedom, 
        including prolonged detention, torture, and executions based 
        primarily or entirely upon the religion of the accused''.
            (18) The Government of Iran continues to propagate anti-
        Semitism and target members of the Jewish community, and 
        reinstated, in 2014, a Holocaust denial conference, which had 
        been cancelled the previous year.
            (19) On January 27, 2016, as the world marked International 
        Holocaust Remembrance Day, Iranian Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei 
        published a video denying the Holocaust on his official 
        website.
            (20) Members of the Baha'i Faith in Iran, estimated to 
        number between 300,000 and 350,000, are not recognized as a 
        religious minority under the Constitution of Iran, enjoy 
        virtually no rights under the law, and are banned from 
        practicing their faith. Throughout 2014 and 2015, Iranian 
        authorities shut down numerous Baha'i-owned businesses across 
        the country.
            (21) More than 100 Baha'is are being held in prison solely 
        because of their religious beliefs, including the Baha'i 
        leaders Fariba Kamalabadi, Jamaloddin Khanjani, Afif Naemi, 
        Saeid Rezaie, Mahvash Sabet, Behrouz Tavakkoli, and Vahid 
        Tizfahm.
            (22) Christians, particularly converts and underground 
        house church leaders, face sustained persecution, arrests, 
        legal harassment, and long-term prison sentences. Since 2010, 
        more than 500 Christians have been arrested or detained.
            (23) Officials of the United States have stated that the 
        human rights record of Iran is ``abysmal'' and the Department 
        of State has reported that there has been ``little meaningful 
        improvement in human rights in Iran under the new government, 
        including torture, political imprisonment, and harassment of 
        religious and ethnic minorities''.
            (24) According to the Country Reports on Human Rights 
        Practices for 2014 of the Department of State, Iranian law 
        states that same-sex sexual activity is punishable by death, 
        flogging, or other punishments. Iranian authorities ``harassed, 
        arrested, and detained individuals they suspected of being 
        gay''. While detained, lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender 
        individuals have reported physical abuse and torture by 
        security officers, including sexual assault and rape.
            (25) The Government of Iran continues to commit egregious 
        human rights abuses against its own citizens in violation of 
        its international obligations under the Universal Declaration 
        of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social 
        and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and 
        Political Rights, and the International Convention on the 
        Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination.

SEC. 202. EXPANSION OF LIST OF PERSONS INVOLVED IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES 
              IN IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Section 105 of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, 
Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8514) is 
amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``certain persons 
        who are responsible for or complicit'' and inserting ``persons 
        involved'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Who 
                Are Responsible for or Complicit'' and inserting 
                ``Involved'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, the 
        President shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a list of persons the President determines have 
        committed or facilitated, directly or indirectly, human rights 
        abuses or other acts of violence, intimidation, or harassment, 
        on behalf of the Government of Iran on or after June 12, 2009, 
        regardless of whether such abuses or acts occurred in Iran.''; 
        and
                    (C) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking ``this Act'' 
                and inserting ``the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 
                2016''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Inclusion of Actions That Violate Universal Declaration of 
Human Rights.--For purposes of subsection (b)(1), the term `human 
rights abuses' includes actions that violate the rights listed in the 
United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted at Paris 
December 10, 1948.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the 
Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 
2010 is amended by striking the item relating to section 105 and 
inserting the following:

``Sec. 105. Imposition of sanctions on persons involved in human rights 
                            abuses committed against citizens of Iran 
                            or their family members after the June 12, 
                            2009, elections in Iran.''.

SEC. 203. IDENTIFICATION OF, AND IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT 
              TO, CERTAIN IRANIAN INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Section 221 of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria 
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8727) is amended to read as 
follows:

``SEC. 221. IDENTIFICATION OF, AND IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT 
              TO, CERTAIN IRANIAN INDIVIDUALS.

    ``(a) Identification of Individuals.--Not later than 90 days after 
the date of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, 
and every 180 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees and publish in the Federal 
Register a list of all individuals the President determines are 
described in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Individuals Described.--An individual described in this 
subsection is--
            ``(1) the Supreme Leader of Iran;
            ``(2) the President of Iran;
            ``(3) a current or former key official, manager, or 
        director of an entity that is owned or controlled after 
        November 14, 1979, by--
                    ``(A) the Supreme Leader of Iran;
                    ``(B) the Office of the Supreme Leader of Iran;
                    ``(C) the President of Iran;
                    ``(D) the Office of the President of Iran;
                    ``(E) Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps;
                    ``(F) the Basij-e Motaz'afin;
                    ``(G) the Guardian Council;
                    ``(H) the Ministry of Intelligence and Security of 
                Iran;
                    ``(I) the Atomic Energy Organization of Iran;
                    ``(J) the Islamic Consultative Assembly of Iran;
                    ``(K) the Assembly of Experts of Iran;
                    ``(L) the Ministry of Defense and Armed Forces 
                Logistics of Iran;
                    ``(M) the Ministry of Justice of Iran;
                    ``(N) the Ministry of Interior of Iran;
                    ``(O) the prison system of Iran;
                    ``(P) the judicial system of Iran, including the 
                Islamic Revolutionary Courts; or
                    ``(Q) any citizen of Iran included on the list of 
                specially designated nationals and blocked persons 
                maintained by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of 
                the Department of the Treasury;
            ``(4) a citizen of Iran indicted in a foreign country for, 
        or otherwise suspected of, participation in a terrorist attack;
            ``(5) an individual involved in the kidnapping or unjust 
        detention of a United States citizen, including a United States 
        citizen who is also a citizen of another country; or
            ``(6) a politically exposed individual associated with an 
        individual described in any of paragraphs (1) through (5) who 
        is not a United States person.
    ``(c) Exclusion From United States.--Except as provided in 
subsection (f), the Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, 
any alien who is on the list required by subsection (a).
    ``(d) Blocking of Property.--Except as provided in subsection (f), 
the President shall block and prohibit all transactions in all property 
and interests in property of any individual who is on the list required 
by subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are in the 
United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the 
possession or control of a United States person.
    ``(e) Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, and 
        every 90 days thereafter, the President shall submit to the 
        appropriate congressional committees a report that describes 
        the efforts the President has taken during the 90 days 
        preceding the submission of the report to locate and block all 
        property and interests in property of any individual who is on 
        the list required by subsection (a).
            ``(2) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex if necessary.
    ``(f) Exceptions.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President may not include an 
        individual on the list required by subsection (a) if the 
        President determines that, during the 10-year period preceding 
        the determination, the individual has not in any way engaged 
        in, facilitated, or otherwise supported--
                    ``(A) human rights abuses;
                    ``(B) acts of international terrorism; or
                    ``(C) the proliferation of weapons of mass 
                destruction.
            ``(2) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Subsection (c) shall not apply to the head of state 
        of Iran, or necessary staff of that head of state, if admission 
        to the United States is necessary to permit the United States 
        to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the 
        United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
        entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
        Nations and the United States.
    ``(g) Waiver.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President may waive the application 
        of subsection (c) or (d) with respect to an individual for a 
        period of 180 days, and may renew that waiver for additional 
        periods of 180 days, if the President--
                    ``(A) determines that the waiver is vital to the 
                national security of the United States; and
                    ``(B) not less than 7 days before the waiver or the 
                renewal of the waiver, as the case may be, takes 
                effect, submits a report to the appropriate 
                congressional committees on the waiver and the reason 
                for the waiver.
            ``(2) Limitation on waiver authority.--The President may 
        not exercise the waiver authority provided under paragraph (1) 
        to implement any international agreement with Iran unless, 
        before exercising the waiver authority, the agreement is 
        approved through the enactment of a joint resolution or the 
        Senate provides its advice and consent with respect to the 
        agreement pursuant to section 2 of article II of the 
        Constitution of the United States.
            ``(3) Form of report.--Each report submitted under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
        may include a classified annex if necessary.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Own or control.--The term `own or control' means, 
        with respect to an entity--
                    ``(A) to hold more than 25 percent of the equity 
                interest by vote or value in the entity;
                    ``(B) to hold any seats on the board of directors 
                of the entity; or
                    ``(C) to otherwise control the actions, policies, 
                or personnel decisions of the entity.
            ``(2) Politically exposed individual.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The term `politically exposed 
                individual' includes a current or former senior 
                political figure, the immediate family of such a 
                figure, and close associates of such a figure.
                    ``(B) Additional definitions.--For purposes of 
                subparagraph (A):
                            ``(i) Close associate.--The term `close 
                        associate', with respect to a senior political 
                        figure--
                                    ``(I) means an individual who is 
                                widely and publicly known to maintain 
                                an unusually close relationship with 
                                the senior political figure; and
                                    ``(II) includes an individual who 
                                is in a position to conduct substantial 
                                domestic and international financial 
                                transactions on behalf of the senior 
                                political figure.
                            ``(ii) Immediate family.--The term 
                        `immediate family', with respect to a senior 
                        foreign political figure, means the parents, 
                        siblings, spouse, children, and in-laws of the 
                        senior political figure.
                            ``(iii) Senior political figure.--The term 
                        `senior political figure' means a senior 
                        official in the executive, legislative, 
                        administrative, military, or judicial branches 
                        of the Government of Iran (whether elected or 
                        not), a senior official of a major political 
                        party in Iran, or a senior executive of an 
                        entity owned or controlled by the Government of 
                        Iran.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et seq.) 
is amended by striking the item relating to section 221 and inserting 
the following:

``Sec. 221. Identification of, and imposition of sanctions with respect 
                            to, certain Iranian individuals.''.

SEC. 204. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS WHO CONDUCT 
              TRANSACTIONS WITH OR ON BEHALF OF CERTAIN IRANIAN 
              INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title II of the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8721 et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after section 221 the following:

``SEC. 221A. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS WHO 
              CONDUCT TRANSACTIONS WITH OR ON BEHALF OF CERTAIN IRANIAN 
              INDIVIDUALS.

    ``(a) Sale, Supply, or Transfer of Goods and Services.--The 
President shall impose five or more of the sanctions described in 
section 6(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 
U.S.C. 1701 note) with respect to a person that knowingly, on or after 
the date that is 120 days after the date of the enactment of the 
Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, sells, supplies, or transfers 
goods or services to an individual who is on the list required by 
section 221(a).
    ``(b) Facilitation of Certain Transactions.--The President shall 
prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the 
maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a 
payable-through account by any foreign financial institution that has 
knowingly conducted or facilitated a significant financial transaction 
on behalf of an individual who is on the list required by section 
221(a).
    ``(c) Waiver.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President may waive the application 
        of subsection (a) or (b) with respect to a person for a period 
        of 180 days, and may renew that waiver for additional periods 
        of 180 days, if the President--
                    ``(A) determines that the waiver is vital to the 
                national security of the United States; and
                    ``(B) not less than 7 days before the waiver or the 
                renewal of the waiver, as the case may be, takes 
                effect, submits a report to the appropriate 
                congressional committees on the waiver and the reason 
                for the waiver.
            ``(2) Limitation on waiver authority.--The President may 
        not exercise the waiver authority provided under paragraph (1) 
        to implement any international agreement with Iran unless, 
        before exercising the waiver authority, the agreement is 
        approved through the enactment of a joint resolution or the 
        Senate provides its advice and consent with respect to the 
        agreement pursuant to section 2 of article II of the 
        Constitution of the United States.
            ``(3) Form of report.--Each report submitted under 
        paragraph (1)(B) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but 
        may include a classified annex if necessary.
    ``(d) Application of Certain Provisions of the Iran Sanctions Act 
of 1996.--The following provisions of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 
(Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) shall apply with respect to 
the imposition of sanctions under subsection (a) to the same extent 
that such provisions apply with respect to the imposition of sanctions 
under section 5(a) of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996:
            ``(1) Subsections (c), (d), and (f) of section 5.
            ``(2) Section 8.
            ``(3) Section 11.
            ``(4) Section 12.
            ``(5) Section 13(b).
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this Act:
            ``(1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through 
        account.--The terms `account', `correspondent account', and 
        `payable-through account' have the meanings given those terms 
        in section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
            ``(2) Foreign financial institution.--The term `foreign 
        financial institution' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 561.308 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (or 
        any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8701 et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 221 the 
following:

``Sec. 221A. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons who 
                            conduct transactions with or on behalf of 
                            certain Iranian individuals.''.

SEC. 205. MANDATORY SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS 
              THAT ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS ON BEHALF OF PERSONS 
              INVOLVED IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES OR THAT EXPORT SENSITIVE 
              TECHNOLOGY TO IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Section 104(c)(2) of the Comprehensive Iran 
Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
8513(c)(2)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(F) facilitates a significant transaction or 
                transactions or provides significant financial services 
                for--
                            ``(i) a person that is subject to sanctions 
                        under section 105(c), 105A(c), 105B(c), or 
                        105C(a); or
                            ``(ii) a person that exports sensitive 
                        technology to Iran and is subject to the 
                        prohibition on procurement contracts as 
                        described in section 106.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with respect 
to any activity described in subparagraph (F) of section 104(c)(2) of 
the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 
2010, as added by subsection (a)(3), initiated on or after the date 
that is 90 days after such date of enactment.
    (c) Regulations.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury shall prescribe 
regulations to carry out the amendments made by subsection (a).

SEC. 206. UNITED STATES SUPPORT FOR THE PEOPLE OF IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title IV of the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8751 et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 416. UNITED STATES SUPPORT FOR THE PEOPLE OF IRAN.

    ``(a) Policy of the United States.--It is the policy of the United 
States--
            ``(1) to support the efforts of the people of Iran to 
        promote the establishment of basic freedoms in Iran;
            ``(2) to lay the foundation for the emergence of a freely 
        elected, open, and democratic political system in Iran that is 
        not a threat to its neighbors or to the United States and to 
        work with all citizens of Iran who seek to establish such a 
        political system;
            ``(3) to support the emergence of a government in Iran that 
        does not oppress the people of Iran and does not persecute, 
        intimidate, arrest, imprison, or execute dissidents or 
        minorities;
            ``(4) to advocate on behalf of those in Iran persecuted for 
        their religion or belief;
            ``(5) to assist the people of Iran to produce, access, and 
        share information freely and safely through the Internet and 
        other media; and
            ``(6) to defeat all attempts by the Government of Iran to 
        jam or otherwise obstruct international satellite broadcast 
        signals.
    ``(b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            ``(1) the United States should support citizens of Iran 
        that actively work to advance political, economic, and social 
        reforms, including freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, 
        freedom of religion, and representative government;
            ``(2) the President should use all available nonviolent 
        means to support citizens of Iran that advocate for 
        pluralistic, prosperous, and participatory societies;
            ``(3) programs of the Department of State to support reform 
        in Iran have not resulted in a more democratic Iran;
            ``(4) the Government of Iran continues to play a pernicious 
        role in the Middle East, undermining democratic consolidation 
        in Iraq, supporting international terrorism through Hezbollah, 
        and aiding the autocratic regime of Bashar al-Assad in Syria;
            ``(5) the Secretary of State should make every effort to 
        deliver support directly to people working in Iran to implement 
        programs carried out using assistance provided by the 
        Department of State when possible and all possible means of 
        delivering such assistance should be used; and
            ``(6) oversight, management, and implementation of programs 
        of the Department of State to support reform in Iran should be 
        under the direction of the Special Coordinator on Human Rights 
        and Democracy in Iran established under section 207 of the 
        Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, in consultation with the 
        Assistant Secretary of State for Democracy, Human Rights, and 
        Labor.
    ``(c) Assistance To Support Reform in Iran.--
            ``(1) Assistance authorized.--Notwithstanding any other 
        provision of law, the Secretary of State may provide assistance 
        (including through the award of grants) to individuals and 
        entities working in Iran for the purpose of supporting and 
        promoting the rule of law, good governance, civil society, and 
        economic opportunity in Iran.
            ``(2) Eligibility for assistance.--Assistance authorized 
        under this subsection should be provided only to an individual 
        or entity that--
                    ``(A) officially opposes the use of violence and 
                terrorism and has not been designated as a foreign 
                terrorist organization under section 219 of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) at any 
                time during the 4-year period ending on the date of the 
                enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016;
                    ``(B) advocates the adherence by Iran to 
                nonproliferation regimes for nuclear, chemical, and 
                biological weapons and materiel, and ballistic 
                missiles;
                    ``(C) is dedicated to democratic values and 
                supports the adoption of a democratic form of 
                government in Iran;
                    ``(D) is dedicated to respect for human rights, 
                including the fundamental equality of women; and
                    ``(E) supports freedom of the press, freedom of 
                speech, freedom of association, and freedom of 
                religion.
            ``(3) Notification requirement.--Not later than 15 days 
        before each obligation of assistance under this subsection, the 
        Secretary of State shall notify the Committee on Foreign 
        Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives in accordance 
        with the procedures applicable to reprogramming notifications 
        under section 634A of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
        U.S.C. 2394-1).
            ``(4) Authorization of appropriations.--Of the amounts made 
        available to carry out chapter 4 of part II of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2346 et seq.; relating to the 
        Economic Support Fund) for fiscal year 2015, not less than 
        $32,000,000 shall be made available to the Secretary of State 
        to carry out this subsection.
            ``(5) Termination.--The authority to provide assistance 
        under this subsection shall expire on December 31, 2020.
    ``(d) Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, and 
        every 180 days thereafter, the Secretary of State shall submit 
        to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
        implementation of this section that includes the following:
                    ``(A) An identification of the actions the 
                President has taken during the 180-day period 
                immediately preceding the submission of the report to 
                advance each of the policies described in subsection 
                (a).
                    ``(B) A clear strategy for advancing political, 
                economic, and social reform in Iran that includes 
                benchmarks for success that lead to a set of identified 
                discrete goals and objectives.
                    ``(C) A plan to monitor and evaluate the 
                effectiveness of the provision of assistance authorized 
                under subsection (c), including measures of 
                effectiveness.
                    ``(D) The status of the programming of assistance 
                under subsection (c).
                    ``(E) An analysis of any past programming of 
                assistance under subsection (c) and its effectiveness 
                with respect to supporting and promoting the rule of 
                law, good governance, civil society, and economic 
                opportunity in Iran.
            ``(2) Form of report.--Each report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex if necessary.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 415 the following:

``Sec. 416. United States support for the people of Iran.''.

SEC. 207. UNITED STATES SPECIAL COORDINATOR ON HUMAN RIGHTS AND 
              DEMOCRACY IN IRAN.

    (a) Designation.--The President shall designate within the 
Department of State a Special Coordinator on Human Rights and Democracy 
in Iran (in this section referred to as the ``Special Coordinator'').
    (b) Consultation and Qualifications.--Before the President 
designates a Special Coordinator under subsection (a), the Secretary of 
State shall consult with the chairmen and ranking members of the 
appropriate congressional committees. The role of Special Coordinator 
should be filled by an official of the Department of State appointed by 
and serving at the pleasure of the President in a position not lower 
than Under Secretary on the day before the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    (c) Duties.--The Special Coordinator shall carry out the following 
duties:
            (1) Coordinate the activities of the United States 
        Government that promote human rights, democracy, political 
        freedom, and religious freedom inside Iran.
            (2) Coordinate the activities of the United States 
        Government that promote human rights, political freedom, and 
        religious freedom for Iranian refugees and asylees living 
        outside Iran.
            (3) Ensure the comprehensive investigation and designation 
        of Iranian human rights abusers in accordance with section 105 
        of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
        Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8514).
            (4) Coordinate the documentation and publicizing of 
        political dissidents and cases of human rights abuse inside 
        Iran.
            (5) Coordinate multilateral efforts to build international 
        support for the promotion of human rights, democracy, political 
        freedom, and religious freedom in Iran, including broadcasting, 
        Internet access, and dissemination of information.
            (6) Encourage the United Nations, multilateral 
        organizations, and human rights nongovernmental organizations 
        to more robustly investigate and report on human rights abuses 
        in Iran.
            (7) Encourage foreign governments to downgrade or sever 
        diplomatic relations with the Government of Iran, enact 
        economic sanctions, and assist Iranian dissidents in response 
        to the continued violations of human rights by the Government 
        of Iran.
            (8) Encourage foreign governments to expel Iran from 
        international fora and organizations with a human rights 
        component, including the United Nations Commission on the 
        Status of Women, the United Nations Educational, Scientific and 
        Cultural Organization, the United Nations Children's Fund, and 
        the International Labour Organization.
            (9) Coordinate all programs funded under the Iran Freedom 
        Support Act (Public Law 109-293; 22 U.S.C. 2151 note).
    (d) Authority.--
            (1) Coordination of activities.--The Special Coordinator 
        shall coordinate all activities related to Iran carried out by 
        the Bureau of Near Eastern Affairs, the Bureau of Democracy, 
        Human Rights and Labor, and the Bureau of Population, Refugees 
        and Migration of the Department of State, the Ambassador-at-
        Large for International Religious Freedom, the Special Envoy to 
        Monitor and Combat Anti-Semitism, the United States Commission 
        on International Religious Freedom, the National Endowment for 
        Democracy, and the Broadcasting Board of Governors.
            (2) Coordination of use of funds.--The Special Coordinator 
        shall coordinate and oversee the obligation and expenditure of 
        funds related to human rights, democracy, Internet freedom, and 
        broadcasting activities in Iran, including funds made available 
        for such purposes to the Middle East Partnership Initiative, 
        the United States Commission on International Religious 
        Freedom, the Broader Middle East and North Africa Initiative, 
        the Human Rights and Democracy Fund, and the Near Eastern 
        Regional Democracy Fund.
    (e) Diplomatic Representation.--Subject to the direction of the 
President and the Secretary of State, the Special Coordinator shall 
represent the United States in matters and cases relevant to the 
promotion of human rights, democracy, political freedom, and religious 
freedom in Iran in--
            (1) contacts with foreign governments, intergovernmental 
        organizations, and specialized agencies of the United Nations, 
        the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe, and 
        other international organizations of which the United States is 
        a member; and
            (2) multilateral conferences and meetings relevant to the 
        promotion of human rights, democracy, political freedom, and 
        religious freedom in Iran.
    (f) Consultations.--The Special Coordinator shall consult with 
Congress, domestic and international nongovernmental organizations, 
labor organizations, and multilateral organizations and institutions as 
the Special Coordinator considers appropriate to fulfill the purposes 
of this section.
    (g) Funding.--From amounts made available for the Department of 
State for Near East Affairs in fiscal years before fiscal year 2016, 
the Secretary of State shall provide to the Special Coordinator such 
sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2016 for the hiring of staff, 
for the conduct of investigations, and for necessary travel to carry 
out this section.
    (h) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.

SEC. 208. BROADCASTING TO IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and the Voice of 
America services broadcasting to Iran shall--
            (1) provide news and information that is accessible, 
        credible, comprehensive, and accurate;
            (2) emphasize investigative and analytical journalism 
        provided by Iranian or pro-Iranian media outlets; and
            (3) strengthen civil society by promoting democratic 
        processes, respect for human rights, and freedom of the press 
        and expression.
    (b) Programming Surge.--Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and Voice 
of America programming to Iran shall--
            (1) provide programming content 24 hours a day and 7 days a 
        week to target populations using all available and effective 
        distribution outlets, including at least 12 hours a day of 
        original television and video content, not including live video 
        streaming of breaking news;
            (2) create mobile platforms with an embedded proxy to offer 
        the people of Iran the opportunity to securely listen to 
        programming;
            (3) increase number of staffers based in the region to 
        allow for more direct contact with the people of Iran;
            (4) expand the use, audience, and audience engagement of 
        mobile news and multimedia platforms by the Voice of America 
        and the Radio Farda service of Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, 
        including through Internet-based social networking platforms; 
        and
            (5) establish fellowships for Iranian journalists who have 
        fled the country to learn about free, competitive media and be 
        trained in surrogate reporting.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2017, in addition to funds otherwise made 
available for such purposes, $10,000,000 to carry out Iran-focused 
programming by Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty and the Voice of 
America, for the purpose of bolstering existing United States 
programming to the people of Iran and increasing programming capacity 
and jamming circumvention technology to overcome any disruptions to 
service.

SEC. 209. REPORT ON UNITED STATES CITIZENS DETAINED BY IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 180 days thereafter, the President 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
United States citizens, including dual citizens, detained by Iran or 
groups supported by Iran that includes--
            (1) information regarding any officials of the Government 
        of Iran involved in any way in the detentions; and
            (2) a summary of efforts the United States Government has 
        taken to secure the swift release of those United States 
        citizens, including United States citizens who are also 
        citizens of other countries.
    (b) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex if 
necessary.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 
104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).

SEC. 210. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ESTABLISHMENT OF MULTILATERAL MECHANISM 
              TO PROMOTE HUMAN RIGHTS IN IRAN.

    It is the sense of Congress that the United States should work with 
the European Union and other countries with a common commitment to 
fundamental rights and freedoms to explore the possibility of 
establishing a formal multilateral mechanism to advocate for the 
promotion of human rights, democracy, political freedom, and religious 
freedom in Iran.

SEC. 211. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ROLE OF THE UNITED NATIONS IN PROMOTING 
              HUMAN RIGHTS IN IRAN.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United Nations has a significant role to play in 
        promoting and improving human rights in Iran;
            (2) the United States should continue to support the work 
        of the United Nations Special Rapporteur on the situation of 
        human rights in the Islamic Republic of Iran; and
            (3) the egregious human rights violations in Iran warrant 
        country-specific attention and continued reporting by the 
        Special Rapporteur on the situation of human rights in the 
        Islamic Republic of Iran, the Special Rapporteur on torture and 
        other cruel, inhuman, or degrading treatment or punishment, the 
        Working Group on Arbitrary Detention, the Special Rapporteur on 
        extrajudicial, summary, or arbitrary executions, the Special 
        Rapporteur on the promotion and protection of the right to 
        freedom of opinion and expression, the Special Rapporteur on 
        freedom of religion or belief, and the Special Rapporteur on 
        violence against women, its causes, and consequences, of the 
        United Nations.

 TITLE III--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO THE BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM OF 
                                  IRAN

SEC. 301. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) On April 2, 2015, President Barack Obama said, ``Other 
        American sanctions on Iran for its support of terrorism, its 
        human rights abuses, its ballistic missile program, will 
        continue to be fully enforced.''.
            (2) On July 7, 2015, General Martin Dempsey, then-Chairman 
        of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said, ``Under no circumstances 
        should we relieve the pressure on Iran relative to ballistic 
        missile capabilities.''.
            (3) On July 29, 2015, in his role as the top military 
        officer in the United States and advisor to the President, 
        General Dempsey confirmed that his military recommendation was 
        that sanctions relating to the ballistic missile program of 
        Iran not be lifted.
            (4) The Government of Iran and Iran's Revolutionary Guard 
        Corps have been responsible for the repeated testing of illegal 
        ballistic missiles capable of carrying a nuclear device, 
        including observed tests in October and November 2015 and March 
        2016, violating United Nations Security Council resolutions.
            (5) On October 14, 2015, Samantha Power, United States 
        Ambassador to the United Nations, said, ``One of the really 
        important features in implementation of the recent Iran deal to 
        dismantle Iran's nuclear program is going to have to be 
        enforcement of the resolutions and the standards that remain on 
        the books.''.
            (6) On December 11, 2015, the United Nations Panel of 
        Experts concluded that the missile launch on October 10, 2015, 
        ``was a violation by Iran of paragraph 9 of Security Council 
        resolution 1929 (2010)''.
            (7) On January 17, 2016, Adam Szubin, Acting Under 
        Secretary for Terrorism and Financial Intelligence, stated, 
        ``Iran's ballistic missile program poses a significant threat 
        to regional and global security, and it will continue to be 
        subject to international sanctions. We have consistently made 
        clear that the United States will vigorously press sanctions 
        against Iranian activities outside of the Joint Comprehensive 
        Plan of Action--including those related to Iran's support for 
        terrorism, regional destabilization, human rights abuses, and 
        ballistic missile program.''.
            (8) On February 9, 2016, James Clapper, Director of 
        National Intelligence, testified that, ``We judge that Tehran 
        would choose ballistic missiles as its preferred method of 
        delivering nuclear weapons, if it builds them. Iran's ballistic 
        missiles are inherently capable of delivering WMD, and Tehran 
        already has the largest inventory of ballistic missiles in the 
        Middle East. Iran's progress on space launch vehicles--along 
        with its desire to deter the United States and its allies--
        provides Tehran with the means and motivation to develop 
        longer-range missiles, including ICBMs.''.
            (9) On March 9, 2016, Iran reportedly fired two Qadr 
        ballistic missiles with a range of more than 1,000 miles and 
        according to public reports, the missiles were marked with a 
        statement in Hebrew reading, ``Israel must be wiped off the 
        arena of time.''.
            (10) On March 11, 2016, Ambassador Power called the recent 
        ballistic missile launches by Iran ``provocative and 
        destabilizing'' and called on the international community to 
        ``degrade Iran's missile program''.
            (11) On March 14, 2016, Ambassador Power said that the 
        recent ballistic missile launches by Iran were ``in defiance of 
        provisions of UN Security Council Resolution 2231''.
            (12) Iran has demonstrated the ability to launch multiple 
        rockets from fortified underground facilities and mobile launch 
        sites not previously known.
            (13) The ongoing procurement by Iran of technologies needed 
        to boost the range, accuracy, and payloads of its diverse 
        ballistic missile arsenal represents a threat to deployed 
        personnel of the United States and allies of the United States 
        in Europe and the Middle East, including Israel.
            (14) Ashton Carter, Secretary of Defense, testified in a 
        hearing before the Armed Services Committee of the Senate on 
        July 7, 2015, that, ``[T]he reason that we want to stop Iran 
        from having an ICBM program is that the I in ICBM stands for 
        intercontinental, which means having the capability to fly from 
        Iran to the United States, and we don't want that. That's why 
        we oppose ICBMs.''.
            (15) Through recent ballistic missile launch tests the 
        Government of Iran has shown blatant disregard for 
        international laws and its intention to continue tests of that 
        nature throughout the implementation of the Joint Comprehensive 
        Plan of Action.
            (16) The banking sector of Iran has facilitated the 
        financing of the ballistic missile programs in Iran and 
        evidence has not been provided that entities in that sector 
        have ceased facilitating the financing of those programs.
            (17) Iran has been able to amass a large arsenal of 
        ballistic missiles through its illicit smuggling networks and 
        domestic manufacturing capabilities that have been supported 
        and maintained by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps and specific 
        sectors of the economy of Iran.
            (18) Penetration by Iran's Revolutionary Guard Corps into 
        the economy of Iran is well documented including investments in 
        the construction, automotive, telecommunications, electronics, 
        mining, metallurgy, and petrochemical sectors of the economy of 
        Iran.
            (19) Items procured through sectors of Iran specified in 
        paragraph (18) have dual use applications that are currently 
        being used to create ballistic missiles in Iran and will 
        continue to be a source of materials for the creation of future 
        weapons.
            (20) In order to curb future illicit activity by Iran, the 
        Government of the United States and the international community 
        must take action against persons that facilitate and profit 
        from the illegal acquisition of ballistic missile parts and 
        technology in support of the missile programs of Iran.

SEC. 302. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the ballistic missile program of Iran represents a 
        serious threat to allies of the United States in the Middle 
        East and Europe, members of the Armed Forces deployed in the 
        those regions, and ultimately the United States;
            (2) the testing and production by Iran of ballistic 
        missiles capable of carrying a nuclear device is a clear 
        violation of United Nations Security Council Resolution 2231 
        (2015), which was unanimously adopted by the international 
        community;
            (3) Iran is using its space launch program to develop the 
        capabilities necessary to deploy an intercontinental ballistic 
        missile that could threaten the United States, and the Director 
        of National Intelligence has assessed that Iran would use 
        ballistic missiles as its ``preferred method of delivering 
        nuclear weapons''; and
            (4) the Government of the United States should impose tough 
        primary and secondary sanctions against any sector of the 
        economy of Iran or any Iranian person that directly or 
        indirectly supports the ballistic missile program of Iran as 
        well as any foreign person or financial institution that 
        engages in transactions or trade that support that program.

SEC. 303. EXPANSION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO EFFORTS BY IRAN TO 
              ACQUIRE BALLISTIC MISSILE AND RELATED TECHNOLOGY.

    (a) Certain Persons.--Section 1604(a) of the Iran-Iraq Arms Non-
Proliferation Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-484; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``, to 
acquire ballistic missile or related technology,'' after ``nuclear 
weapons''.
    (b) Foreign Countries.--Section 1605(a) of the Iran-Iraq Arms Non-
Proliferation Act of 1992 (Public Law 102-484; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note) is 
amended, in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting ``, to 
acquire ballistic missile or related technology,'' after ``nuclear 
weapons''.

SEC. 304. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO BALLISTIC MISSILE 
              PROGRAM OF IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Title II of the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria 
Human Rights Act of 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8721 et seq.) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:

  ``Subtitle C--Measures Relating to Ballistic Missile Program of Iran

``SEC. 231. DEFINITIONS.

    ``(a) In General.--In this subtitle:
            ``(1) Agricultural commodity.--The term `agricultural 
        commodity' has the meaning given that term in section 102 of 
        the Agricultural Trade Act of 1978 (7 U.S.C. 5602).
            ``(2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
                    ``(A) the committees specified in section 14(2) of 
                the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 
                U.S.C. 1701 note); and
                    ``(B) the congressional defense committees, as 
                defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.
            ``(3) Correspondent account; payable-through account.--The 
        terms `correspondent account' and `payable-through account' 
        have the meanings given those terms in section 5318A of title 
        31, United States Code.
            ``(4) Foreign financial institution.--The term `foreign 
        financial institution' has the meaning of that term as 
        determined by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 
        104(i) of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and 
        Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8513(i)).
            ``(5) Good.--The term `good' has the meaning given that 
        term in section 16 of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 
        U.S.C. 4618) (as continued in effect pursuant to the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
        seq.)).
            ``(6) Government.--The term `Government', with respect to a 
        foreign country, includes any agencies or instrumentalities of 
        that Government and any entities controlled by that Government.
            ``(7) Medical device.--The term `medical device' has the 
        meaning given the term `device' in section 201 of the Federal 
        Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
            ``(8) Medicine.--The term `medicine' has the meaning given 
        the term `drug' in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and 
        Cosmetic Act (21 U.S.C. 321).
    ``(b) Determinations of Significance.--For purposes of this 
subtitle, in determining if financial transactions or financial 
services are significant, the President may consider the totality of 
the facts and circumstances, including factors similar to the factors 
set forth in section 561.404 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations 
(or any corresponding similar regulation or ruling).

``SEC. 232. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO PERSONS THAT 
              SUPPORT THE BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM OF IRAN.

    ``(a) Identification of Persons.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, 
        and not less frequently than once every 180 days thereafter, 
        the President shall, in coordination with the Secretary of 
        Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, the Secretary 
        of the Treasury, and the Secretary of State, submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report identifying persons 
        that have knowingly aided the Government of Iran in the 
        development of the ballistic missile program of Iran.
            ``(2) Elements.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    ``(A) An identification of persons (disaggregated 
                by Iranian and non-Iranian persons) that have knowingly 
                aided the Government of Iran in the development of the 
                ballistic missile program of Iran, including persons 
                that have--
                            ``(i) knowingly engaged in the direct or 
                        indirect provision of material support to such 
                        program;
                            ``(ii) knowingly facilitated, supported, or 
                        engaged in activities to further the 
                        development of such program;
                            ``(iii) knowingly transmitted information 
                        relating to ballistic missiles to the 
                        Government of Iran; or
                            ``(iv) otherwise knowingly aided such 
                        program.
                    ``(B) A description of the character and 
                significance of the cooperation of each person 
                identified under subparagraph (A) with the Government 
                of Iran with respect to such program.
                    ``(C) An assessment of the cooperation of the 
                Government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea 
                with the Government of Iran with respect to such 
                program.
            ``(3) Classified annex.--Each report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a 
        classified annex.
    ``(b) Blocking of Property.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 15 days after submitting 
        a report required by subsection (a)(1), the President shall, in 
        accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
        (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions 
        in all property and interests in property of any person 
        specified in such report if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within the United 
        States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
        United States person.
            ``(2) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--
        The requirements under section 202 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply 
        for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(c) Exclusion From United States.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, any 
        alien subject to blocking of property and interests in property 
        under subsection (b).
            ``(2) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the head of state 
        of Iran, or necessary staff of that head of state, if admission 
        to the United States is necessary to permit the United States 
        to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the 
        United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
        entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
        Nations and the United States.
    ``(d) Facilitation of Certain Transactions.--The President shall 
prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the 
maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a 
payable-through account by a foreign financial institution that the 
President determines knowingly, on or after the date that is 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 
2016, conducts or facilitates a significant financial transaction for a 
person subject to blocking of property and interests in property under 
subsection (b).

``SEC. 233. BLOCKING OF PROPERTY OF PERSONS AFFILIATED WITH CERTAIN 
              IRANIAN ENTITIES.

    ``(a) Blocking of Property.--
            ``(1) In general.--The President shall, in accordance with 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in all property 
        and interests in property of any person described in paragraph 
        (3) if such property and interests in property are in the 
        United States, come within the United States, or are or come 
        within the possession or control of a United States person.
            ``(2) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--
        The requirements under section 202 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply 
        for purposes of this subsection.
            ``(3) Persons described.--A person described in this 
        paragraph is--
                    ``(A) an entity that is owned, directly or 
                indirectly, by a 25 percent or greater interest--
                            ``(i) by the Aerospace Industries 
                        Organization, the Shahid Hemmat Industrial 
                        Group, the Shahid Bakeri Industrial Group, or 
                        any agent or affiliate of such organization or 
                        group; or
                            ``(ii) collectively by a group of 
                        individuals that hold an interest in the 
                        Aerospace Industries Organization, the Shahid 
                        Hemmat Industrial Group, the Shahid Bakeri 
                        Industrial Group, or any agent or affiliate of 
                        such organization or group, even if none of 
                        those individuals hold a 25 percent or greater 
                        interest in the entity;
                    ``(B) a person that controls, manages, or directs 
                an entity described in subparagraph (A); or
                    ``(C) an individual who is on the board of 
                directors of an entity described in subparagraph (A).
    ``(b) Facilitation of Certain Transactions.--The President shall 
prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the 
maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a 
payable-through account by a foreign financial institution that the 
President determines knowingly, on or after the date that is 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 
2016, conducts or facilitates a significant financial transaction for a 
person subject to blocking of property and interests in property under 
subsection (a).
    ``(c) Iran Missile Proliferation Watch List.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, and 
        not less frequently than annually thereafter, the Secretary of 
        the Treasury shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress and publish in the Federal Register a list of--
                    ``(A) each entity in which the Aerospace Industries 
                Organization, the Shahid Hemmat Industrial Group, the 
                Shahid Bakeri Industrial Group, or any agent or 
                affiliate of such organization or group has an 
                ownership interest of more than 0 percent and less than 
                25 percent;
                    ``(B) each entity in which the Aerospace Industries 
                Organization, the Shahid Hemmat Industrial Group, the 
                Shahid Bakeri Industrial Group, or any agent or 
                affiliate of such organization or group does not have 
                an ownership interest but maintains a presence on the 
                board of directors of the entity or otherwise 
                influences the actions, policies, or personnel 
                decisions of the entity; and
                    ``(C) each person that controls, manages, or 
                directs an entity described in subparagraph (A) or (B).
            ``(2) Reference.--The list required by paragraph (1) may be 
        referred to as the `Iran Missile Proliferation Watch List'.
    ``(d) Comptroller General Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall--
                    ``(A) conduct a review of each list required by 
                subsection (c)(1); and
                    ``(B) not later than 60 days after each such list 
                is submitted to the appropriate committees of Congress 
                under that subsection, submit to the appropriate 
                committees of Congress a report on the review conducted 
                under subparagraph (A) that includes a list of persons 
                not included in that list that qualify for inclusion in 
                that list, as determined by the Comptroller General.
            ``(2) Consultations.--In preparing the report required by 
        paragraph (1)(B), the Comptroller General shall consult with 
        nongovernmental organizations.

``SEC. 234. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN PERSONS 
              INVOLVED IN BALLISTIC MISSILE ACTIVITIES.

    ``(a) Certification.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, and not less 
frequently than once every 180 days thereafter, the President shall 
submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a certification that 
each person listed in an annex of United Nations Security Council 
Resolution 1737 (2006), 1747 (2007), or 1929 (2010) is not directly or 
indirectly facilitating, supporting, or involved with the development 
of or transfer to Iran of ballistic missiles or technology, parts, 
components, or technology information relating to ballistic missiles.
    ``(b) Blocking of Property.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the President is unable to make a 
        certification under subsection (a) with respect to a person and 
        the person is not currently subject to sanctions with respect 
        to Iran under any other provision of law, the President shall, 
        not later than 15 days after that certification would have been 
        required under that subsection--
                    ``(A) in accordance with the International 
                Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), 
                block and prohibit all transactions in all property and 
                interests in property of that person if such property 
                and interests in property are in the United States, 
                come within the United States, or are or come within 
                the possession or control of a United States person; 
                and
                    ``(B) publish in the Federal Register a report 
                describing the reason why the President was unable to 
                make a certification with respect to that person.
            ``(2) Inapplicability of national emergency requirement.--
        The requirements under section 202 of the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701) shall not apply 
        for purposes of this subsection.
    ``(c) Exclusion From United States.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of 
        Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, any 
        alien subject to blocking of property and interests in property 
        under subsection (b).
            ``(2) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
        agreement.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to the head of state 
        of Iran, or necessary staff of that head of state, if admission 
        to the United States is necessary to permit the United States 
        to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the 
        United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
        entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United 
        Nations and the United States.
    ``(d) Facilitation of Certain Transactions.--The President shall 
prohibit the opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the 
maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or a 
payable-through account by a foreign financial institution that the 
President determines knowingly, on or after the date that is 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 
2016, conducts or facilitates a significant financial transaction for a 
person subject to blocking of property and interests in property under 
subsection (b).

``SEC. 235. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN SECTORS OF 
              IRAN THAT SUPPORT THE BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM OF IRAN.

    ``(a) List of Sectors.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, 
        and not less frequently than once every 180 days thereafter, 
        the President shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress and publish in the Federal Register a list of the 
        sectors of the economy of Iran that are directly or indirectly 
        facilitating, supporting, or involved with the development of 
        or transfer to Iran of ballistic missiles or technology, parts, 
        components, or technology information relating to ballistic 
        missiles.
            ``(2) Certain sectors.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after 
                the date of enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions 
                Act of 2016, the President shall submit to the 
                appropriate committees of Congress a determination as 
                to whether each of the automotive, chemical, computer 
                science, construction, electronic, energy, metallurgy, 
                mining, petrochemical, research (including universities 
                and research institutions), and telecommunications 
                sectors of Iran meet the criteria specified in 
                paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Inclusion in initial list.--If the President 
                determines under subparagraph (A) that the sectors of 
                the economy of Iran specified in such subparagraph meet 
                the criteria specified in paragraph (1), that sector 
                shall be included in the initial list submitted and 
                published under that paragraph.
    ``(b) Sanctions With Respect to Specified Sectors of Iran.--
            ``(1) Blocking of property.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The President shall, in 
                accordance with the International Emergency Economic 
                Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.), block and prohibit 
                all transactions in all property and interests in 
                property of any person described in paragraph (4) if 
                such property and interests in property are in the 
                United States, come within the United States, or are or 
                come within the possession or control of a United 
                States person.
                    ``(B) Inapplicability of national emergency 
                requirement.--The requirements under section 202 of the 
                International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 
                1701) shall not apply for purposes of this paragraph.
            ``(2) Exclusion from united states.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in 
                subparagraph (B), the Secretary of State shall deny a 
                visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
                exclude from the United States, any alien that is a 
                person described in paragraph (4).
                    ``(B) Compliance with united nations headquarters 
                agreement.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the 
                head of state of Iran, or necessary staff of that head 
                of state, if admission to the United States is 
                necessary to permit the United States to comply with 
                the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United 
                Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and 
                entered into force November 21, 1947, between the 
                United Nations and the United States.
            ``(3) Facilitation of certain transactions.--Except as 
        provided in this section, the President shall prohibit the 
        opening, and prohibit or impose strict conditions on the 
        maintaining, in the United States of a correspondent account or 
        a payable-through account by a foreign financial institution 
        that the President determines knowingly, on or after the date 
        that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of the 
        Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, conducts or facilitates 
        a significant financial transaction for a person described in 
        paragraph (4).
            ``(4) Persons described.--A person is described in this 
        paragraph if the President determines that the person, on or 
        after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016--
                    ``(A) operates in a sector of the economy of Iran 
                included in the most recent list published by the 
                President under subsection (a);
                    ``(B) knowingly provides significant financial, 
                material, technological, or other support to, or goods 
                or services in support of, any activity or transaction 
                on behalf of or for the benefit of a person described 
                in subparagraph (A); or
                    ``(C) is owned or controlled by a person described 
                in subparagraph (A).
    ``(c) Humanitarian Exception.--The President may not impose 
sanctions under this section with respect to any person for conducting 
or facilitating a transaction for the sale of agricultural commodities, 
food, medicine, or medical devices to Iran or for the provision of 
humanitarian assistance to the people of Iran.

``SEC. 236. IDENTIFICATION OF FOREIGN PERSONS THAT SUPPORT THE 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM OF IRAN IN CERTAIN SECTORS OF 
              IRAN.

    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016, and not less 
frequently than annually thereafter, the President shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress and publish in the Federal Register 
a list of all foreign persons that have, based on credible information, 
directly or indirectly facilitated, supported, or been involved with 
the development of ballistic missiles or technology, parts, components, 
or technology information related to ballistic missiles in the 
following sectors of the economy of Iran during the period specified in 
subsection (b):
            ``(1) Automotive.
            ``(2) Chemical.
            ``(3) Computer Science.
            ``(4) Construction.
            ``(5) Electronic.
            ``(6) Energy.
            ``(7) Metallurgy.
            ``(8) Mining.
            ``(9) Petrochemical.
            ``(10) Research (including universities and research 
        institutions).
            ``(11) Telecommunications.
            ``(12) Any other sector of the economy of Iran identified 
        under section 235(a).
    ``(b) Period Specified.--The period specified in this subsection 
is--
            ``(1) with respect to the first list submitted under 
        subsection (a), the period beginning on the date of the 
        enactment of the Nonnuclear Iran Sanctions Act of 2016 and 
        ending on the date that is 120 days after such date of 
        enactment; and
            ``(2) with respect to each subsequent list submitted under 
        such subsection, the one-year period preceding the submission 
        of the list.
    ``(c) Comptroller General Report.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to each list submitted 
        under subsection (a), not later than 120 days after the list is 
        submitted under that subsection, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
        Congress--
                    ``(A) an assessment of the processes followed by 
                the President in preparing the list;
                    ``(B) an assessment of the foreign persons included 
                in the list; and
                    ``(C) a list of persons not included in the list 
                that qualify for inclusion in the list, as determined 
                by the Comptroller General.
            ``(2) Consultations.--In preparing the report required by 
        paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall consult with 
        nongovernmental organizations.
    ``(d) Credible Information Defined.--In this section, the term 
`credible information' has the meaning given that term in section 14 of 
the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 
note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for the Iran Threat 
Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012 is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 224 the following:

  ``Subtitle C--Measures Relating to Ballistic Missile Program of Iran

``Sec. 231. Definitions.
``Sec. 232. Imposition of sanctions with respect to persons that 
                            support the ballistic missile program of 
                            Iran.
``Sec. 233. Blocking of property of persons affiliated with certain 
                            Iranian entities.
``Sec. 234. Imposition of sanctions with respect to certain persons 
                            involved in ballistic missile activities.
``Sec. 235. Imposition of sanctions with respect to certain sectors of 
                            Iran that support the ballistic missile 
                            program of Iran.
``Sec. 236. Identification of foreign persons that support the 
                            ballistic missile program of Iran in 
                            certain sectors of Iran.''.

SEC. 305. EXPANSION OF MANDATORY SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FINANCIAL 
              INSTITUTIONS THAT ENGAGE IN CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS RELATING 
              TO BALLISTIC MISSILE CAPABILITIES OF IRAN.

    Section 104 of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, 
and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8513) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (c)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by striking ``; or'' and 
                        inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause 
                        (iii); and
                            (iii) by inserting after clause (i) the 
                        following:
                            ``(ii) to acquire or develop ballistic 
                        missiles and capabilities and launch technology 
                        relating to ballistic missiles; or''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (E)(ii)--
                            (i) in subclause (I), by striking ``; or'' 
                        and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating subclause (II) as 
                        subclause (III); and
                            (iii) by inserting after subclause (I) the 
                        following:
                                    ``(II) Iran's development of 
                                ballistic missiles and capabilities and 
                                launch technology relating to ballistic 
                                missiles; or''; and
            (2) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
                subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and moving 
                those subparagraphs, as so redesignated, two ems to the 
                right;
                    (B) by striking ``Waiver.--The'' and inserting 
                ``Waiver.--
            ``(1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        the''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Exception.--The Secretary of the Treasury may not 
        waive under paragraph (1) the application of a prohibition or 
        condition imposed with respect to an activity described in 
        subparagraph (A)(ii) or (E)(ii)(II) of subsection (c)(2).''.

SEC. 306. DISCLOSURE TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION OF 
              ACTIVITIES WITH CERTAIN SECTORS OF IRAN THAT SUPPORT THE 
              BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM OF IRAN.

    (a) In General.--Section 13(r)(1) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 (15 U.S.C. 78m(r)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        a semicolon;
            (2) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (E); 
        and
            (3) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
                    ``(D) knowingly engaged in any activity for which 
                sanctions may be imposed under section 235 of the Iran 
                Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012;''.
    (b) Investigations.--Section 13(r)(5)(A) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 is amended by striking ``an Executive order specified in 
clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (1)(D)'' and inserting ``section 235 of 
the Iran Threat Reduction and Syria Human Rights Act of 2012, an 
Executive order specified in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (1)(E)''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment.--Section 13(r)(5) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph 
(A), by striking ``subparagraph (D)(iii)'' and inserting ``subparagraph 
(E)(iii)''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect with respect to reports required to be filed with the Securities 
and Exchange Commission after the date that is 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 307. REGULATIONS.

    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the President shall prescribe regulations to carry out this title and 
the amendments made by this title.

    TITLE IV--SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO CERTAIN IRANIAN TRANSACTIONS

     Subtitle A--Sanctions Relating to Iran's Support of Terrorism

SEC. 401. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The Financial Action Task Force, an intergovernmental 
        body the purpose of which is to develop and promote national 
        and international policies to combat money laundering and 
        terrorist financing--
                    (A) has noted it is concerned about Iran's failure 
                to address the risk of terrorist financing and serious 
                threat that failure poses to the integrity of the 
                international financial system;
                    (B) since February 25, 2009, has called on its 
                members and urged all jurisdictions to apply 
                countermeasures against Iran to protect financial 
                sectors from money laundering and financing of 
                terrorism risks emanating from Iran; and
                    (C) states that it ``urges jurisdictions to protect 
                against correspondent relationships being used to 
                bypass or evade countermeasures and risk mitigation 
                practices and to take into account [money laundering 
                and terrorist financing (ML/FT)] risks when considering 
                requests by Iranian financial institutions to open 
                branches and subsidiaries in their jurisdiction. Due to 
                the continuing terrorist financing threat emanating 
                from Iran, jurisdictions should consider the steps 
                already taken and possible additional safeguards or 
                strengthen existing ones.''
            (2) The Financial Action Task Force renewed its call for 
        countermeasures on February 19, 2016, and called on Iran to 
        address its deficiencies with respect to measures countering 
        money laundering and terrorist financing.
            (3) The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network of the 
        Department of the Treasury on November 25, 2011, issued a 
        notice of finding that Iran is a jurisdiction of primary money 
        laundering concern pursuant to section 5318A of title 31, 
        United States Code.
            (4) The Financial Crimes Enforcement Network on November 
        28, 2011, issued a notice of proposed rulemaking that stated 
        the intent to impose special measures against Iran under that 
        section.
            (5) Section 1245 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8513a) designated the financial 
        sector of Iran as a primary money laundering concern, but did 
        not impose special measures pursuant to that designation.

SEC. 402. SPECIAL MEASURES WITH RESPECT TO IRAN RELATING TO ITS 
              DESIGNATION AS A JURISDICTION OF PRIMARY MONEY LAUNDERING 
              CONCERN.

    (a) Prohibition on Direct Use of Correspondent Accounts.--A covered 
financial institution shall terminate any correspondent account that--
            (1) is established, maintained, administered, or managed in 
        the United States for, or on behalf of, an Iranian banking 
        institution; and
            (2) is not blocked under any Executive order issued 
        pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.).
    (b) Special Due Diligence Measures for Correspondent Accounts.--
            (1) In general.--A covered financial institution shall 
        apply special due diligence measures to correspondent accounts 
        of the financial institution that are reasonably designed to 
        guard against the improper indirect use of such accounts by 
        Iranian banking institutions.
            (2) Requirements.--The special due diligence measures a 
        covered financial institution is required to apply to 
        correspondent accounts under paragraph (1) shall include, at a 
        minimum--
                    (A) notifying the holders of such accounts that the 
                covered financial institution knows or has reason to 
                know provide services to Iranian banking institutions, 
                that such holders generally may not provide Iranian 
                banking institutions with access to such accounts; and
                    (B) taking reasonable steps to identify any 
                indirect use of such accounts by Iranian banking 
                institutions, to the extent that such indirect use can 
                be determined from transactional records maintained by 
                the covered financial institution in the normal course 
                of business.
            (3) Risk-based approach.--A covered financial institution 
        shall take a risk-based approach when deciding what, if any, 
        other due diligence measures the financial institution should 
        adopt to guard against the improper indirect use of its 
        correspondent accounts by Iranian banking institutions.
            (4) Response to indirect access by iranian banking 
        institutions.--A covered financial institution that obtains 
        credible information that a correspondent account is being used 
        by a foreign bank to provide indirect access to an Iranian 
        banking institution, shall--
                    (A) take all appropriate steps to prevent such 
                indirect access, including notifying the holder of the 
                account under paragraph (1)(A); and
                    (B) where necessary, terminate the account.
    (c) Recordkeeping and Reporting.--
            (1) In general.--A covered financial institution shall 
        document its compliance with the notice requirement set forth 
        in subsection (b)(2)(A).
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this section shall 
        require a covered financial institution to report any 
        information not otherwise required to be reported by law or 
        regulation.
    (d) Termination.--This section shall terminate on the date that is 
30 days after the date on which the President submits to Congress--
            (1) the certification described in section 401(a) of the 
        Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment 
        Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8551(a)); and
            (2) a certification that the Financial Action Task Force 
        has lifted its call for countermeasures against Iran and Iran 
        has become a member of a regional body of the Financial Action 
        Task Force.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Correspondent account.--The term ``correspondent 
        account'' has the meaning given that term in section 1010.605 
        of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the 
        day before the date of the enactment of this Act).
            (2) Covered financial institution.--The term ``covered 
        financial institution'' has the meaning given that term under 
        paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1010.605(e) of title 31, Code 
        of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the day before the date 
        of the enactment of this Act).
            (3) Foreign bank.--The term ``foreign bank'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 1010.100(u) of title 31, 
        Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the day before the 
        date of the enactment of this Act).
            (4) Iranian banking institution.--The term ``Iranian 
        banking institution'' means--
                    (A) any foreign bank chartered by Iran, including--
                            (i) any branches, offices, or subsidiaries 
                        of such a bank operating in any jurisdiction; 
                        and
                            (ii) any branch or office within Iran of 
                        any foreign bank licensed by Iran;
                    (B) the Central Bank of Iran; and
                    (C) any foreign bank of which more than 50 percent 
                of the voting stock or analogous interest is owned by 
                two or more foreign banks chartered by Iran.

Subtitle B--Prohibition on and Other Sanctions Relating to Transactions 
                               With Iran

SEC. 411. PROHIBITION ON FACILITATION OF CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING 
              THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OR IRANIAN PERSONS.

    (a) In General.--The President shall not issue any license under 
the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.) that permits a person--
            (1) to conduct an offshore United States dollar clearing 
        system for transactions involving the Government of Iran or an 
        Iranian person; or
            (2) to provide United States dollars for any offshore 
        United States dollar clearing system conducted or overseen by a 
        foreign government or a foreign financial institution for 
        transactions involving the Government of Iran or an Iranian 
        person.
    (b) Foreign Financial Institution Defined.--In this section, the 
term ``foreign financial institution'' has the meaning of that term as 
determined by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to section 104(i) 
of the Comprehensive Iran Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act 
of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 8513(i)).

SEC. 412. REPORTS ON, AND AUTHORIZATION OF IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS WITH 
              RESPECT TO, OFFSHORE UNITED STATES DOLLAR CLEARING FOR 
              TRANSACTIONS INVOLVING THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN OR IRANIAN 
              PERSONS.

    (a) Reports Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once 
        every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of the Treasury shall 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees and publish 
        in the Federal Register a report that contains--
                    (A) a list of any financial institutions that the 
                Secretary has identified as--
                            (i) operating an offshore United States 
                        dollar clearing system that conducts 
                        transactions involving the Government of Iran 
                        or an Iranian person; or
                            (ii) participating in a transaction 
                        described in clause (i) through a system 
                        described in that clause; and
                    (B) a detailed assessment of the status of efforts 
                by the Secretary to prevent the conduct of transactions 
                described in subparagraph (A)(i) through systems 
                described in that subparagraph.
            (2) Form of report.--Each report submitted under paragraph 
        (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form but may contain a 
        classified annex.
    (b) Imposition of Sanctions.--
            (1) In general.--The President shall, in accordance with 
        the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 
        et seq.), block and prohibit all transactions in all property 
        and interests in property of any financial institution 
        specified in the most recent list submitted under subsection 
        (a)(1)(A) if such property and interests in property are in the 
        United States, come within the United States, or are or come 
        within the possession or control of a United States person.
            (2) Additional sanctions.--The President may impose 
        additional sanctions under the International Emergency Economic 
        Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) with respect to a financial 
        institution that is subject to sanctions under paragraph (1).
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 14 of the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 
104-172; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).

SEC. 413. CLARIFICATION THAT FREEZING OF ASSETS OF IRANIAN FINANCIAL 
              INSTITUTIONS INCLUDES ASSETS IN POSSESSION OR CONTROL OF 
              A UNITED STATES PERSON PURSUANT TO A U-TURN TRANSACTION.

    Section 1245(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 8513a(c)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The President'' and inserting ``(1) In 
        general.--The President''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Treatment of certain transactions.--
                    ``(A) U-turn transactions.--Property that comes 
                within the possession or control of a United States 
                person pursuant to a transfer of funds that arises 
                from, and is ordinarily incident and necessary to give 
                effect to, an underlying transaction shall be 
                considered to come within the possession or control of 
                that person for purposes of paragraph (1).
                    ``(B) Book transfers.--A transfer of funds or other 
                property for the benefit of an Iranian financial 
                institution that is made between accounts of the same 
                financial institution shall be considered property or 
                interests in property of that Iranian financial 
                institution for purposes of paragraph (1) even if that 
                Iranian financial institution is not the direct 
                recipient of the transfer.''.

                         TITLE V--MISCELLANEOUS

SEC. 501. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO STATE SPONSORS OF 
              TERRORISM.

    (a) Requirement To Comply With All Provisions of Law Relating to 
State Sponsors of Terrorism.--In making a determination to rescind the 
designation of a country as a state sponsor of terrorism, the President 
shall comply with all requirements under this Act, section 620A of the 
Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371), section 40 of the Arms 
Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780), section 6(j) of the Export 
Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605(j)) (as in effect pursuant 
to the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et 
seq.)), and any other provision of law relating to countries the 
governments of which provide support for acts of international 
terrorism, with respect to the rescission.
    (b) Additional Requirements for Removal.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 15 days before the 
        President submits to Congress a report under section 620A(c) of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371(c)), section 
        40(f) of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780(f)), or 
        section 6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 
        U.S.C. 4605(j)) (as in effect pursuant to the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) 
        relating to the rescission of the designation of a country as a 
        state sponsor of terrorism, the President shall submit to the 
        Speaker of the House of Representatives, the minority leader of 
        the House, the majority leader of the Senate, the minority 
        leader of the Senate, and the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report certifying that--
                    (A) the government of the country does not provide 
                safe haven or assistance of any kind to terrorists or 
                other violent fugitives from other countries;
                    (B) the Secretary of State and the Director of 
                National Intelligence agree that the government of the 
                country has ceased all support, directly or indirectly, 
                to any terrorist or terrorist organization, including 
                public statements of support for any such terrorist or 
                terrorist organization during the 36-month period 
                immediately preceding the submission of the report;
                    (C) the government of the country has not provided 
                direct or indirect support to another country on the 
                state sponsor of terrorism list during that 36-month 
                period;
                    (D) the government of the country has not unjustly 
                detained during that 36-month period, and is not 
                unjustly detaining on the date of the report, United 
                States citizens, including dual citizens; and
                    (E) there has been a fundamental change in the 
                leadership and policies of the government of the 
                country.
            (2) Form of report.--Each report described in paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex if necessary.
    (c) Extended Period Before Removal From List Takes Effect.--
            (1) Foreign assistance act of 1961.--Section 620A(c)(2) of 
        the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371(c)(2)) is 
        amended in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) by striking 
        ``45 days'' and inserting ``180 days''.
            (2) Arms export control act.--Section 40(f)(1)(B) of the 
        Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780(f)(1)(B)) is amended in 
        the matter preceding clause (i) by striking ``45 days'' and 
        inserting ``180 days''.
            (3) Export administration act of 1979.--Section 6(j)(4)(B) 
        of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 
        4605(j)(4)(B)) (as in effect pursuant to the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) shall 
        be applied and administered by substituting ``180 days'' for 
        ``45 days''.
    (d) Resolution of Disapproval.--
            (1) In general.--The rescission of the designation of a 
        country as a state sponsor of terrorism shall not become 
        effective if, during the 180-day period following the 
        submission of a report under section 620A(c) of the Foreign 
        Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371(c)), section 40(f) of 
        the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2780(f)), or section 
        6(j) of the Export Administration Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 
        4605(j)) (as in effect pursuant to the International Emergency 
        Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.)) relating to the 
        rescission, Congress enacts a joint resolution stating in 
        substance that the Congress disapproves the rescission.
            (2) Procedures in the senate.--Any joint resolution 
        described paragraph (1) shall be considered in the Senate under 
        the procedures set forth in section 601 of the International 
        Security Assistance and Arms Export Control Act of 1976 (Public 
        Law 94-329; 90 Stat. 765) for consideration of joint 
        resolutions.
            (3) Rules of senate.--Paragraph (2) is enacted by 
        Congress--
                    (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the 
                Senate and as such is deemed a part of the rules of the 
                Senate, but applicable only with the respect to the 
                procedure to be followed in the Senate in the case of a 
                joint resolution described in paragraph (1), and 
                supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is 
                inconsistent with such rules; and
                    (B) with full recognition of the constitutional 
                right of the Senate to change the rules at any time, in 
                the same manner and to the same extent as in the case 
                of any other rule of the Senate.
    (e) Re-Designation of Countries Previously Designated as State 
Sponsors of Terrorism.--During the 5-year period beginning on the date 
on which the designation of the country as a state sponsor of terrorism 
is rescinded, the President shall redesignate the country as a state 
sponsor of terrorism upon the assessment of the Director of National 
Intelligence that the government of the country has--
            (1) directly or indirectly supported acts of international 
        terrorism;
            (2) given direct or indirect support to a terrorist or 
        terrorist organization, including providing safe haven or 
        assistance to a terrorist or terrorist organization;
            (3) given direct or indirect support to another country 
        designated as a state sponsor of terrorism; or
            (4) provided direct or indirect support, training, 
        materials, or advice on nuclear, biological, or chemical 
        weapons or ballistic missile programs to another country 
        designated as a state sponsor of terrorism.
    (f) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence 
        assessment referred to in subsection (e) shall be submitted in 
        a report to the President and the appropriate congressional 
        committees.
            (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
        classified annex if necessary.
    (g) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the committees specified in section 14(2) of 
                the Iran Sanctions Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-172; 50 
                U.S.C. 1701 note);
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Select 
                Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
                    (C) the Committee on Armed Services and the 
                Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
                of Representatives.
            (2) State sponsor of terrorism.--The term ``state sponsor 
        of terrorism'' means any foreign country if the Secretary of 
        State has determined that the government of the country has 
        repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism 
        pursuant to--
                    (A) section 6(j)(1)(A) of the Export Administration 
                Act of 1979 (50 U.S.C. 4605(j)(1)(A)) (as in effect 
                pursuant to the International Emergency Economic Powers 
                Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.));
                    (B) section 40(d) of the Arms Export Control Act 
                (22 U.S.C. 2780(d));
                    (C) section 620A(a) of the Foreign Assistance Act 
                of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2371(a)); or
                    (D) any other provision of law.
                                 <all>
