[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1945 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 1945

  To make available needed psychiatric, psychological, and supportive 
  services for individuals with mental illness and families in mental 
                 health crisis, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             August 5, 2015

 Mr. Cassidy (for himself, Mr. Murphy, and Ms. Collins) introduced the 
 following bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on 
                 Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To make available needed psychiatric, psychological, and supportive 
  services for individuals with mental illness and families in mental 
                 health crisis, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Mental Health 
Reform Act of 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
   TITLE I--ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
                               DISORDERS

Sec. 101. Assistant Secretary for mental health and substance use 
                            disorders.
Sec. 102. Reports.
Sec. 103. Advisory Council on graduate medical education.
                            TITLE II--GRANTS

Sec. 201. National Mental Health Policy Laboratory.
Sec. 202. Innovation grants.
Sec. 203. Demonstration grants.
Sec. 204. Early childhood intervention and treatment.
Sec. 205. Extension of assisted outpatient treatment grant program for 
                            individuals with serious mental illness.
Sec. 206. Block grants.
Sec. 207. Telehealth child psychiatry access grants.
Sec. 208. Liability protections for health care professional volunteers 
                            at community health centers and community 
                            mental health centers.
Sec. 209. Minority fellowship program.
Sec. 210. National health service corps.
Sec. 211. Reauthorization of mental and behavioral health education 
                            training grant.
Sec. 212. National suicide prevention lifeline program.
                         TITLE III--INTEGRATION

Sec. 301. Primary and behavioral health care integration grant 
                            programs.
  TITLE IV--INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE

Sec. 401. Interagency Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee.
                      TITLE V--HIPAA CLARIFICATION

Sec. 501. Findings.
Sec. 502. Modifications to HIPAA.
Sec. 503. Development and dissemination of model training programs.
Sec. 504. Confidentiality of records.
                TITLE VI--MEDICARE AND MEDICAID REFORMS

Sec. 601. Enhanced Medicaid coverage relating to certain mental health 
                            services.
Sec. 602. Modifications to Medicare discharge planning requirements.
       TITLE VII--RESEARCH BY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH

Sec. 701. Increase in funding for certain research.
             TITLE VIII--SAMHSA REAUTHORIZATION AND REFORMS

            Subtitle A--Organization and General Authorities

Sec. 801. Peer review.
Sec. 802. Advisory councils.
Sec. 803. Grants for jail diversion programs reauthorization.
Sec. 804. Projects for assistance in transition from homelessness.
Sec. 805. Comprehensive community mental health services for children 
                            with serious emotional disturbances.
Sec. 806. Reauthorization of priority mental health needs of regional 
                            and national significance.
                     TITLE IX--MENTAL HEALTH PARITY

Sec. 901. GAO study on preventing discriminatory coverage limitations 
                            for individuals with serious mental illness 
                            and substance use disorders.
Sec. 902. Report on investigations regarding parity in mental health 
                            and substance use disorder benefits.
Sec. 903. Strengthening parity in mental health and substance use 
                            disorder benefits.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Assistant secretary.--Except as otherwise specified, 
        the term ``Assistant Secretary'' means the Assistant Secretary 
        for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders.
            (2) Evidence-based.--The term ``evidence-based'' means the 
        conscientious, systematic, explicit, and judicious appraisal 
        and use of external, current, reliable, and valid research 
        findings as the basis for making decisions about the 
        effectiveness and efficacy of a program, intervention, or 
        treatment.

   TITLE I--ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
                               DISORDERS

SEC. 101. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              DISORDERS.

    (a) In General.--There shall be in the Department of Health and 
Human Services an official to be known as the Assistant Secretary for 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, who shall--
            (1) report directly to the Secretary;
            (2) be appointed by the President, by and with the advice 
        and consent of the Senate; and
            (3) be selected from among individuals who--
                    (A)(i) have a doctoral degree in medicine or 
                osteopathic medicine;
                    (ii) have clinical, research, and policy experience 
                in psychiatry;
                    (iii) graduated from an Accreditation Council for 
                Graduate Medical Education-accredited psychiatric 
                residency program; and
                    (iv) have an understanding of biological, 
                psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of mental 
                illness and substance use disorders;
                    (B) have a doctoral degree in psychology and--
                            (i) clinical, research, and policy 
                        experience regarding mental illness and 
                        substance use disorders;
                            (ii) have completed an internship with an 
                        organization that is a member of the 
                        Association of Psychology Post-doctoral and 
                        Internship Centers as part of doctoral degree 
                        completion; and
                            (iii) an understanding of biological, 
                        psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of 
                        mental illness and substance use disorders; or
                    (C) have a doctoral degree in social work and--
                            (i) clinical, research, and policy 
                        experience regarding mental illness and 
                        substance use disorders; and
                            (ii) an understanding of biological, 
                        psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of 
                        mental illness and substance use disorders.
    (b) SAMHSA Administrator.--Section 501(c)(1) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate'' and 
inserting ``, and serve under, the Assistant Secretary for Mental 
Health and Substance Use Disorders''.
    (c) Duties.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            (1) promote, evaluate, organize, integrate, and coordinate 
        research, treatment, and services across departments, agencies, 
        organizations, and individuals with respect to the problems of 
        individuals suffering from substance use disorders or mental 
        illness;
            (2) carry out any functions within the Department of Health 
        and Human Services--
                    (A) to improve services for individuals with 
                substance use disorders or mental illness, including 
                services related to the prevention of, diagnosis of, 
                intervention in, and treatment and rehabilitation of, 
                substance use disorders or mental illness;
                    (B) to ensure access to effective, evidence-based 
                diagnosis, prevention, intervention, treatment and 
                rehabilitation for individuals with mental illnesses 
                and individuals with a substance use disorder;
                    (C) to ensure that all grants with respect to 
                serious mental illness or substance use disorders, are 
                consistent with the grant management standards set 
                forth by the Department, and that such grants are 
                evidence-based, have scientific merit and avoid 
                duplication;
                    (D) to develop and implement initiatives to 
                encourage individuals to pursue careers (especially in 
                underserved areas and populations) as psychiatrists, 
                psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, 
                clinical social workers, and other licensed mental 
                health professionals specializing in the diagnosis, 
                evaluation, and treatment of individuals with severe 
                mental illness;
                    (E) to consult, coordinate with, facilitate joint 
                efforts among, and support State, local, and tribal 
                governments, nongovernmental entities, and individuals 
                with a mental illness, particularly individuals with a 
                serious mental illness and children and adolescents 
                with a serious emotional disturbance, with respect to 
                improving community-based and other mental health 
                services;
                    (F) to disseminate evidenced-based and promising 
                best practices developed by the National Mental Health 
                Policy Lab established under section 201 and other 
                qualified research organizations that are culturally 
                and linguistically indicated treatment and prevention 
                services related to a mental illness, particularly 
                individuals with a serious mental illness and children 
                and adolescents with a serious emotional disturbance; 
                and
                    (G) to develop criteria for the application of best 
                practices within the mental health and substance use 
                disorder service delivery system;
            (3) within the Department of Health and Human Services, 
        oversee and coordinate all programs and activities relating 
        to--
                    (A) diagnosis, prevention, intervention, treatment, 
                rehabilitation with respect to mental health or 
                substance use disorders;
                    (B) parity in health insurance benefits and 
                conditions relating to mental health and substance use 
                disorders; or
                    (C) the reduction of homelessness and incarceration 
                among individuals with mental health and substance use 
                disorders;
            (4) make recommendations to the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services regarding public participation in decisions 
        relating to mental health, including serious mental illness, 
        and serious emotional disturbances across the lifespan;
            (5) review and make recommendations with respect to the 
        Department of Health and Human Services budget to ensure the 
        adequacy of such budget;
            (6) across the Federal Government, in conjunction with the 
        Interagency Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee under 
        section 501A of the Public Health Service Act (as added by 
        section 401)--
                    (A) review all programs and activities relating to 
                the diagnosis or prevention of, or treatment or 
                rehabilitation for, mental illness or substance use 
                disorders;
                    (B) identify any such programs and activities that 
                are duplicative;
                    (C) identify any such programs and activities that 
                are not evidence-based, effective, or efficient; and
                    (D) formulate recommendations for expanding, 
                coordinating, eliminating, and improving programs and 
                activities identified pursuant to subparagraphs (B) and 
                (C) and merging such programs and activities into 
                other, successful programs and activities;
            (7) identify evidence-based and promising best practices 
        across the Federal Government for treatment and services for 
        individuals with mental health and substance use disorders by 
        reviewing practices for efficiency, effectiveness, quality, 
        coordination, and cost effectiveness; and
            (8) not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act and every 2 years thereafter, submit to Congress a 
        report containing a nationwide strategy to recruit, train, and 
        increase the mental health workforce for the treatment of 
        individuals with mental illness, serious mental illness, 
        substance use disorders, and co-occurring disorders.
    (d) Nationwide Strategy.--The Assistant Secretary shall ensure that 
the nationwide strategy in the report under subsection (c)(8) is 
designed--
            (1) to encourage and incentivize students enrolled in an 
        accredited medical or osteopathic school, or nursing, 
        psychology, or social work graduate program, to specialize in 
        the mental health field;
            (2) to promote greater research-oriented psychiatric, 
        psychological, nursing, and social work training on evidence-
        based service delivery models for individuals with mental 
        illness or substance use disorders, including models with 
        family participation;
            (3) to promote appropriate Federal administrative and 
        fiscal mechanisms that support--
                    (A) evidence-based collaborative care models; and
                    (B) the necessary mental health workforce capacity 
                for the models under subparagraph (A), including 
                psychiatrists, child and adolescent psychiatrists, 
                psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, 
                clinical social workers, and mental health, peer-
                support specialists;
            (4) to increase access to child and adolescent psychiatric 
        services in order to promote early intervention for prevention 
        and mitigation of mental illness;
            (5) to identify populations and locations that are the most 
        underserved by mental health professionals, including 
        psychiatrists, child and adolescent psychiatrists, 
        psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, clinical social 
        workers, other licensed mental health professionals, and peer-
        support specialists; and
            (6) to identify means of alleviating the strain on the 
        budgets of the criminal justice and correctional systems and 
        the capacity of such systems with respect to mental health and 
        substance use disorders.
    (e) Prioritization of Integration of Services, Early Diagnosis, 
Intervention, and Workforce Development.--In carrying out the duties 
described in subsection (c), the Assistant Secretary--
            (1) shall prioritize--
                    (A) the integration of mental health, substance 
                use, and physical health services for the purpose of 
                diagnosing, preventing, treating, and providing 
                rehabilitation for mental illness or substance use 
                disorders, including any such services provided through 
                the justice system (including departments of 
                correction) or entities other than the Department of 
                Health and Human Services;
                    (B) the early diagnosis and intervention services 
                for the prevention of, or crisis intervention for, and 
                treatment or rehabilitation for, serious mental health 
                disorders or substance use disorders, in selecting 
                evidence-based practices and service delivery models 
                for evaluation and dissemination under section 
                201(a)(2)(C); and
                    (C) workforce development for--
                            (i) appropriate treatment of serious mental 
                        illness or substance use disorders;
                            (ii) research activities that advance 
                        scientific and clinical understandings of 
                        serious mental illness or substance use 
                        disorders; and
                            (iii) increasing the number of mental 
                        health professionals, including psychiatrists, 
                        child and adolescent psychiatrists, 
                        psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, 
                        clinical social workers, and mental health peer 
                        support specialists;
            (2) shall give preference to models that improve the 
        coordination, quality, and efficiency of health care services 
        furnished to individuals with serious mental illness; and
            (3) may include clinical protocols and practices used in 
        the Recovery After an Initial Schizophrenia Episode project of 
        the National Institute of Mental Health or similar models, such 
        as the Specialized Treatment Early in Psychosis program.

SEC. 102. REPORTS.

    (a) Report on Best Practices for Peer-Support Specialist Programs, 
Training, and Certification.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and biannually thereafter, the Assistant 
        Secretary shall submit to Congress and make publicly available 
        a report on best practices and professional standards in States 
        for--
                    (A) establishing and operating health care programs 
                using peer-support specialists; and
                    (B) training and certifying peer-support 
                specialists.
            (2) Peer-support specialist defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``peer-support specialist'' means an individual who--
                    (A) is credentialed by the State in which the 
                individual practices;
                    (B) uses his or her lived experience of recovery 
                from mental illness or substance abuse, plus skills 
                learned in formal training, to facilitate support 
                groups, and to work on a one-on-one basis, with 
                individuals with a serious mental illness or a 
                substance use disorder, in consultation with, and under 
                the supervision of, a licensed mental health or 
                substance use treatment professional;
                    (C) has been an active participant in mental health 
                or substance use treatment for at least the preceding 
                year;
                    (D) provides non-medical services; and
                    (E) performs services only within his or her area 
                of training, expertise, competence, or scope of 
                practice.
            (3) Contents.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include information on best practices and standards with regard 
        to the following:
                    (A) Hours of formal work or volunteer experience 
                related to mental health and substance use issues.
                    (B) Types of peer specialist exams required.
                    (C) Code of ethics.
                    (D) Additional training required prior to 
                certification, including in areas such as--
                            (i) ethics;
                            (ii) scope of practice;
                            (iii) crisis intervention;
                            (iv) State confidentiality laws;
                            (v) Federal privacy protections, including 
                        under the Health Insurance Portability and 
                        Accountability Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-
                        191); and
                            (vi) other areas, as determined by the 
                        Assistant Secretary.
                    (E) Requirements to explain what, where, when, and 
                how to accurately complete all required documentation 
                activities.
                    (F) Required or recommended skill sets, including 
                knowledge of--
                            (i) risk indicators and responding 
                        appropriately to individual stressors, 
                        triggers, and indicators of pre-crisis 
                        symptoms;
                            (ii) basic crisis avoidance techniques;
                            (iii) basic suicide prevention concepts and 
                        techniques;
                            (iv) indicators that an individual may be 
                        experiencing abuse or neglect;
                            (v) stages of change or recovery;
                            (vi) the typical process that should be 
                        followed to access or participate in community 
                        mental health and related services; and
                            (vii) circumstances when it is appropriate 
                        to request assistance from other professionals 
                        to help meet the individual's recovery goals.
                    (G) Annual requirements for continuing education 
                credits.
    (b) Report on Mental Health and Substance Use Treatment in the 
States.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and not less than every 18 months 
        thereafter, the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
        Substance Use Disorders, in collaboration with the Director of 
        the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality and Director of 
        the National Institutes of Health, shall submit to Congress and 
        make available to the public a report on mental health and 
        substance use treatment in the States, including the following:
                    (A) A detailed report on how Federal mental health 
                and substance use treatment funds are used in each 
                State, including:
                            (i) The numbers of individuals with mental 
                        illness, serious mental illness, substance use 
                        disorders, or co-occurring disorders who are 
                        served with Federal funds.
                            (ii) The types of programs made available 
                        to individuals with mental illness, serious 
                        mental illness, substance use disorders, or co-
                        occurring disorders.
                    (B) A summary of best practice models in the States 
                highlighting programs that are cost effective, provide 
                evidence-based care, increase access to care, integrate 
                physical, psychiatric, psychological, and behavioral 
                medicine, and improve outcomes for individuals with 
                serious mental illness or substance use disorders.
                    (C) A statistical report of outcome measures in 
                each State for individuals with mental illness, serious 
                mental illness, substance use disorders, or co-
                occurring disorders, including rates of suicide, 
                suicide attempts, substance abuse, overdose, overdose 
                deaths, health outcomes, emergency psychiatric 
                hospitalizations and emergency room boarding, arrests, 
                incarcerations, homelessness, joblessness, employment, 
                and enrollment in educational or vocational programs.
                    (D) A comparative effectiveness research study 
                analyzing outcomes for different models of outpatient 
                treatment programs for the seriously mentally ill that 
                include outpatient mental health services that are 
                court ordered or voluntary, including--
                            (i) rates of keeping treatment appointments 
                        and compliance with prescribed medications;
                            (ii) participants' perceived effectiveness 
                        of the program;
                            (iii) rates of the programs helping 
                        individuals with serious mental illness gain 
                        control over their lives;
                            (iv) alcohol and drug abuse rates;
                            (v) incarceration and arrest rates;
                            (vi) violence against persons or property;
                            (vii) homelessness;
                            (viii) total treatment costs for compliance 
                        with program; and
                            (ix) health outcomes.
            (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``emergency 
        room boarding'' means the practice of admitting patients to an 
        emergency department and holding such patients in the 
        department until inpatient psychiatric beds become available.
    (c) Reporting Compliance Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health 
        and Substance Use Disorders shall enter into an arrangement 
        with the National Academy of Medicine (or, if the National 
        Academy of Medicine declines, another appropriate entity) under 
        which, not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the National Academy of Medicine will submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report that evaluates the 
        combined paperwork burden of--
                    (A) community mental health centers meeting the 
                criteria specified in section 1913(c) of the Public 
                Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-2(c)), including 
                such centers meeting such criteria as in effect on the 
                day before the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) community mental health centers, as defined in 
                section 1861(ff)(3)(B) of the Social Security Act.
            (2) Scope.--In preparing the report under subsection (a), 
        the National Academy of Medicine (or, if applicable, other 
        appropriate entity) shall examine licensing, certification, 
        service definitions, claims payment, billing codes, and 
        financial auditing requirements used by the Office of 
        Management and Budget, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
        Services, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the 
        Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the 
        Office of the Inspector General of the Department of Health and 
        Human Services, State Medicaid agencies, State departments of 
        health, State departments of education, and State and local 
        juvenile justice and social service agencies to make 
        administrative and statutory recommendations to Congress (which 
        recommendations may include a uniform methodology) to reduce 
        the paperwork burden experienced by centers and clinics 
        described in paragraph (1).

SEC. 103. ADVISORY COUNCIL ON GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION.

    (a) In General.--Section 762(b) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 294o(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
        Substance Use Disorders;''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 762(c) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 294o(c)) is amended by striking ``paragraphs 
(4), (5), and (6)'' each place it appears and inserting ``paragraphs 
(5), (6), and (7)''.

                            TITLE II--GRANTS

SEC. 201. NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH POLICY LABORATORY.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental 
        Health and Substance Use Disorders shall establish, within the 
        Office of the Assistant Secretary, the National Mental Health 
        Policy Laboratory (in this section referred to as the 
        ``NMHPL''), to be headed by a Director.
            (2) Duties.--The Director of the NMHPL shall--
                    (A) identify, coordinate, and implement policy 
                changes and other trends likely to have the most 
                significant impact on mental health services and 
                monitor their impact;
                    (B) collect information from grantees under 
                programs established or amended by this Act and under 
                other mental health programs under the Public Health 
                Service Act, including grantees that are States 
                receiving funds under a block grant under part B of 
                title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
                300x et seq.);
                    (C) evaluate and disseminate to such grantees 
                evidence-based practices and service delivery models 
                using the best available science shown to be cost-
                effective while enhancing the quality of care furnished 
                to individuals; and
                    (D) establish standards for the appointment of 
                scientific peer-review panels to evaluate grant 
                applications.
            (3) Evidence-based practices and service delivery models.--
        In selecting evidence-based best practices and service delivery 
        models for evaluation and dissemination under paragraph (2)(C), 
        the Director of the NMHPL--
                    (A) shall give preference to models that--
                            (i) improve the coordination between mental 
                        health and physical health providers;
                            (ii) improve the coordination among such 
                        providers and the justice and corrections 
                        system;
                            (iii) improve the cost effectiveness, 
                        quality, effectiveness, and efficiency of 
                        health care services furnished to individuals 
                        with serious mental illness, in mental health 
                        crisis, or at risk to themselves, their 
                        families, and the general public; and
                            (iv) recognize the importance of family 
                        participation in recovery; and
                    (B) may include clinical protocols and practices 
                used in the Recovery After Initial Schizophrenia 
                Episode project of the National Institute of Mental 
                Health and the Specialized Treatment Early in Psychosis 
                program.
            (4) Deadline for beginning implementation.--The Director of 
        the NMHPL shall begin implementation of the duties described in 
        this subsection not later than January 1, 2018.
            (5) Consultation.--In carrying out the duties under this 
        subsection, the Director of the NMHPL may consult with--
                    (A) representatives of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health on organizational and operational issues;
                    (B) other appropriate Federal agencies;
                    (C) clinical and analytical experts with expertise 
                in medicine, psychiatric and clinical psychological 
                care, health care management, education, corrections 
                health care, social services, and mental health court 
                systems; and
                    (D) other individuals and agencies as the Assistant 
                Secretary determines appropriate.
    (b) Staffing.--
            (1) Composition.--In selecting the staff of the NMHPL, the 
        Director of the NMHPL, in consultation with the Director of the 
        National Institute of Mental Health, shall include individuals 
        with advanced degrees and clinical and research experience, and 
        who have an understanding of biological, psychosocial, and 
        pharmaceutical treatments of mental illness and substance use 
        disorders, including--
                    (A) individuals with a medical degree or doctoral 
                degree from an accredited program in--
                            (i) allopathic or osteopathic medicine, and 
                        who have specialized training in psychiatry;
                            (ii) psychology; or
                            (iii) social work;
                    (B) professionals or academics with clinical or 
                research expertise in substance use disorders and 
                treatment; and
                    (C) professionals or academics with expertise in 
                research design and methodologies.
    (c) Report on Quality of Care.--Not later than 2 years after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the 
Director of the NMHPL shall submit to Congress a report on the quality 
of care furnished through grant programs administered by the Assistant 
Secretary under the respective services delivery models, including 
measurement of patient-level outcomes and public health outcomes, such 
as--
            (1) reduced rates of suicide, suicide attempts, substance 
        abuse, overdose, overdose deaths, emergency psychiatric 
        hospitalizations, emergency room boarding, incarceration, 
        crime, arrest, homelessness, and joblessness;
            (2) rates of employment and enrollment in educational and 
        vocational programs; and
            (3) such other criteria as the Director may determine.
    (d) Definition.--In this section, the term ``emergency room 
boarding'' means the practice of admitting patients to an emergency 
department and holding such patients in the department until inpatient 
psychiatric beds become available.

SEC. 202. INNOVATION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to 
State and local governments, educational institutions, and nonprofit 
organizations for expanding a model that has been scientifically 
demonstrated to show promise, but would benefit from further applied 
research, for--
            (1) enhancing the prevention, diagnosis, intervention, 
        treatment, and rehabilitation of mental illness, serious 
        emotional disorder, substance use disorder, and co-occurring 
        disorders; or
            (2) integrating or coordinating physical health, mental 
        health, and substance use services.
    (b) Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a period of 
not more than 3 years.
    (c) Limitations.--Of the amounts made available for carrying out 
this section for a fiscal year--
            (1) not more than one-third shall be awarded for use for 
        prevention; and
            (2) not less than one-third shall be awarded for screening, 
        diagnosis, treatment, or services, as described in subsection 
        (a), for individuals (or subpopulations of individuals) who are 
        below the age of 18 when activities funded through the grant 
        award are initiated.
    (d) Guidelines.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree to adhere to guidelines issued by the 
National Mental Health Policy Laboratory on research designs and data 
collection.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.

SEC. 203. DEMONSTRATION GRANTS.

    (a) Grants.--The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to States, 
counties, local governments, educational institutions, and private 
nonprofit organizations for the expansion, replication, or scaling of 
evidence-based programs across a wider area to enhance effective 
screening, early diagnosis, intervention, and treatment with respect to 
mental illness and serious mental illness, primarily by--
            (1) applied delivery of care, including training staff in 
        effective evidence-based treatment; and
            (2) integrating models of care across specialties and 
        jurisdictions.
    (b) Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a period of 
not less than 2 years and not more than 5 years.
    (c) Limitations.--Of the amounts made available for carrying out 
this section for a fiscal year--
            (1) not less than half shall be awarded for screening, 
        diagnosis, intervention, and treatment, as described in 
        subsection (a), for individuals (or subpopulations of 
        individuals) who are below the age of 26 when activities funded 
        through the grant award are initiated;
            (2) no amounts shall be made available for any program or 
        project that is not evidence-based;
            (3) no amounts shall be made available for primary 
        prevention; and
            (4) no amounts shall be made available solely for the 
        purpose of expanding facilities or increasing staff at an 
        existing program.
    (d) Guidelines.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree to adhere to guidelines issued by the 
National Mental Health Policy Laboratory (established under section 
201) on research designs and data collection.
    (e) Reporting.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree--
            (1) to report to the National Mental Health Policy 
        Laboratory and the Assistant Secretary the results of programs 
        and activities funded through the award; and
            (2) to include in such reporting any relevant data 
        requested by the National Mental Health Policy Laboratory and 
        the Assistant Secretary.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.

SEC. 204. EARLY CHILDHOOD INTERVENTION AND TREATMENT.

    (a) Grants.--The Director of the National Mental Health Policy 
Laboratory (in this section referred to as the ``NMHPL'') shall--
            (1) award grants to eligible entities to initiate and 
        undertake early childhood intervention and treatment programs, 
        and specialized programs for preschool- and elementary school-
        aged children at significant risk or who show early signs of 
        social or emotional disability (in addition to any learning 
        disability); and
            (2) ensure that programs funded through grants under this 
        section are based on promising or evidence-based models and 
        methods that are culturally and linguistically relevant and can 
        be replicated in other settings.
    (b) Eligible Entities and Children.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        nonprofit institution that--
                    (A) is accredited by a State mental health or 
                education agency, as applicable, for the intervention, 
                treatment, or education of children from 3 to 12 years 
                of age; and
                    (B) provides services that include early 
                intervention and treatment or specialized programs for 
                preschool- and elementary school-aged children whose 
                primary need is a social or emotional disability (in 
                addition to any learning disability).
            (2) Eligible child.--The term ``eligible child'' means a 
        child who is at least 3 years old and not more than 12 years 
        old--
                    (A) whose primary need is a social or emotional 
                disability (in addition to any learning disability); 
                and
                    (B) who could benefit from early childhood 
                intervention and specialized preschool or elementary 
                school programs with the goal of intervening or 
                treating social or emotional disabilities.
    (c) Application.--An eligible entity seeking a grant under 
subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary an application at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may require.
    (d) Use of Funds for Early Intervention and Treatment Programs.--An 
eligible entity shall use amounts awarded under a grant under 
subsection (a)(1) to carry out the following activities:
            (1) Deliver for eligible children mental health education 
        and treatment, early childhood education and intervention, and 
        specialized programs for preschool- and elementary school-aged 
        children at significant risk or who show early signs of social 
        or emotional disability (in addition to any learning 
        disability), including the provision of day treatment and 
        social-emotional and behavioral services.
            (2) Treat and educate eligible children, including by 
        providing funding for--
                    (A) program and curricula development;
                    (B) staff;
                    (C) assessment, intervention, and treatment 
                services;
                    (D) administrative costs, including operating 
                costs, capital needs, and equipment;
                    (E) enrollment costs;
                    (F) collaboration with primary care physicians, 
                psychiatrists, and clinical services of psychologists 
                of other related mental health specialists;
                    (G) services to meet emergency needs of children; 
                and
                    (H) communication with families and physical and 
                mental health professionals concerning the children.
            (3) Develop and implement other strategies to address 
        identified intervention, treatment, and educational needs of 
        eligible children that incorporate reliable and valid 
        evaluation modalities into the program to ensure outcomes based 
        on sound scientific metrics as determined by the NMHPL.
    (e) Amount of Awards.--The amount of an award to an eligible entity 
under subsection (a)(1) shall be not more than $600,000 per fiscal 
year.
    (f) Project Terms.--The period of a grant for awards under 
subsection (a)(1), shall be not less than 3 fiscal years and not more 
than 10 fiscal years.
    (g) Matching Funds.--The Director of the NMHPL may not award a 
grant under this section to an eligible entity unless the eligible 
entity agrees, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the eligible 
entity in carrying out the activities described in subsection (d), to 
make available non-Federal contributions (in cash or in kind) toward 
such costs in an amount that is not less than 10 percent of Federal 
funds provided in the grant.
    (h) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.

SEC. 205. EXTENSION OF ASSISTED OUTPATIENT TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    Section 224 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (42 
U.S.C. 290aa note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``4-year'' and inserting 
        ``6-year'';
            (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``and 2018'' and 
        inserting ``2018, 2019, and 2020''; and
            (3) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2018'' and 
                inserting ``2020'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2) by striking ``2018'' and 
                inserting ``2020''; and
                    (C) by striking ``$15,000,000'' and inserting 
                ``$20,000,000''.

SEC. 206. BLOCK GRANTS.

    (a) Reauthorization of Block Grant.--Section 1920(a) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-9(a)) is amended by striking 
``$450,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary 
for each of the fiscal years 2002 and 2003'' and inserting 
``$483,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 and such sums as may be necessary 
for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2019''.
    (b) Best Practices in Clinical Care Models.--Section 1920 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-9) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(c) Best Practices in Clinical Care Models.--The Assistant 
Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services and in collaboration with the Director of the 
National Institute of Mental Health, shall obligate 5 percent of the 
amounts appropriated for a fiscal year under subsection (a) for 
translating evidence-based (as defined in section 2 of the Mental 
Health Reform Act of 2015) interventions and best available science 
into systems of care, such as through models including the Recovery 
After an Initial Schizophrenia Episode research project of the National 
Institute of Mental Health.''.
    (c) Additional Program Requirements.--
            (1) Integrated services.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 1912 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(b)(1)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The plan provides'' and inserting 
                the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The plan provides'';
                    (B) in the second sentence, by striking ``health 
                and mental health services'' and inserting ``integrated 
                physical and mental health services'';
                    (C) by striking ``The plan shall include'' and all 
                that follows through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``The plan shall integrate and coordinate 
                services to maximize the efficiency, effectiveness, 
                quality, coordination, and cost effectiveness of those 
                services and programs to produce the best possible 
                outcomes for individuals with serious mental 
                illness.''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) Additional requirements.--The plan shall 
                include a separate description of case management 
                services and provide for activities leading to 
                reduction of rates of suicides, suicide attempts, 
                substance abuse, overdose deaths, emergency 
                hospitalizations, incarceration, crimes, arrest, 
                homelessness, joblessness, medication nonadherence, and 
                education and vocational programs drop outs. The plan 
                shall include a detailed list of services available for 
                eligible patients in each county or county 
                equivalent.''.
            (2) Data collection system.--
                    (A) Subsection (b)(1)(A) (as so designated by 
                paragraph (1)) of section 1912 of the Public Health 
                Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(b)(1)(A)) is amended by 
                inserting ``legal services, and'' before ``other 
                support services''.
                    (B) Subsection (b)(2) of section 1912 of the Public 
                Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(b)(2)) is amended 
                by inserting ``and outcome measures for services and 
                resources'' before the period.
            (3) Implementation of plan.--Subsection (d) of section 1912 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(d)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Except as provided'' and 
                        inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--Except as provided''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(B) De-identified reports.--For eligible patients 
                receiving treatment through funds awarded under a grant 
                under section 1911, a State shall include in the State 
                plan for the first year beginning after the date of the 
                enactment of the Mental Health Reform Act of 2015 and 
                each subsequent year, a de-identified report, 
                containing information that is open source and de-
                identified, on the outcomes measures collected in 
                subsection (b)(2) of section 1912 of the Public Health 
                Service Act and the overall cost of such treatment 
                provided.''.
            (4) Incentives for state-based outcome measures.--Section 
        1920 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-9) is 
        amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(c) Incentives for State-Based Outcome Measures.--
            ``(1) In general.--In addition to the amounts made 
        available under subsection (a) for fiscal year 2019, the 
        Secretary shall provide to each State that meets the conditions 
        under paragraph (2) for fiscal year 2019, an amount equal to 2 
        percent of the formula grant amount described in section 1911 
        and section 1921.
            ``(2) Conditions.--The Secretary shall define the 
        conditions under which a State is eligible to receive the 
        additional amount under paragraph (1), based on the report on 
        mental health and substance use treatment in the States under 
        section 102(b) of the Mental Health Reform Act of 2015.
            ``(3) Clarification.--Any amounts made available under 
        paragraph (1) shall be in addition to the State's block grant 
        allocation and shall be made to a State for a fiscal year, as a 
        single payment, not later than the last day of the first 
        calendar quarter of fiscal year 2020.''.
            (5) Evidence-based services delivery models.--Section 1912 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1) is amended 
        by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Expansion of Models.--
            ``(1) In general.--Taking into account the results of 
        evaluations under section 201(a)(2)(C) of the Mental Health 
        Reform Act of 2015, the Assistant Secretary may, by rule, as 
        part of the program of block grants under this subpart, provide 
        for expanded use across the Nation of evidence-based service 
        delivery models by providers funded under such block grants, so 
        long as--
                    ``(A) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
                Substance Use Disorders (in this subsection referred to 
                as the `Assistant Secretary') determines that such 
                expansion will--
                            ``(i) result in more effective use of funds 
                        under such block grants without reducing the 
                        quality of care; or
                            ``(ii) improve the quality of patient care 
                        without significantly increasing spending;
                    ``(B) the Director of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health determines that such expansion would 
                improve the quality of patient care; and
                    ``(C) the Assistant Secretary determines that the 
                change will--
                            ``(i) significantly reduce severity and 
                        duration of symptoms of mental illness;
                            ``(ii) reduce rates of suicide, suicide 
                        attempts, substance abuse, overdose, emergency 
                        hospitalizations, emergency room boarding, 
                        incarceration, crime, arrest, homelessness, or 
                        joblessness; or
                            ``(iii) significantly improve the quality 
                        of patient care and mental health crisis 
                        outcomes without significantly increasing 
                        spending.
            ``(2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `emergency 
        room boarding' means the practice of admitting patients to an 
        emergency department and holding such patients in the 
        department until inpatient psychiatric beds become 
        available.''.
    (d) Period for Expenditure of Grant Funds.--Section 1913 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-2) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(d) Period for Expenditure of Grant Funds.--In implementing a 
plan submitted under section 1912(a), a State receiving a grant under 
section 1911 may make such funds available to providers of services 
described in subsection (b) for the provision of services without 
fiscal year limitation.''.
    (e) Active Outreach and Engagement.--Section 1915 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-4) is amended by adding at the end 
of the following:
    ``(c) Active Outreach and Engagement to Persons With Serious Mental 
Illness.--
            ``(1) In general.--A funding agreement for a grant under 
        section 1911 is that the State involved has in effect active 
        programs that seek to engage individuals with serious mental 
        illness in comprehensive services in order to avert relapse, 
        repeated hospitalizations, arrest, incarceration, suicide, and 
        to provide the patient with the opportunity to live in the 
        least restrictive setting, through a comprehensive program of 
        evidence-based and culturally relevant assertive outreach and 
        engagement services focusing on individuals who are homeless, 
        have co-occurring disorders, are at risk for incarceration or 
        re-incarceration, or have a history of treatment failure, 
        including repeated hospitalizations or emergency room usage.
            ``(2) Evidence-based assertive outreach and engagement 
        services.--
                    ``(A) SAMHSA.--The Administrator of the Substance 
                Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, in 
                cooperation with the Director of the National Institute 
                of Mental Health, shall develop--
                            ``(i) a list of evidence-based culturally 
                        and linguistically relevant assertive outreach 
                        and engagement services; and
                            ``(ii) criteria to be used to assess the 
                        scope and effectiveness of the approaches taken 
                        by such services, such as the ability to 
                        provide same-day appointments for emergent 
                        situations.
                    ``(B) Types of assertive outreach and engagement 
                services.--For purposes of paragraph (1), appropriate 
                programs of evidence-based assertive outreach and 
                engagement services may include peer support programs; 
                the Wellness Recovery Action Plan, Assertive Community 
                Treatment, and Forensic Assertive Community Treatment 
                of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
                Administration; assisted outpatient treatment, 
                appropriate supportive housing programs incorporating a 
                Housing First model; and intensive, evidence-based 
                approaches to early intervention in psychosis, such as 
                the Recovery After an Initial Schizophrenia Episode 
                model of the National Institute of Mental Health and 
                the Specialized Treatment Early in Psychosis program.
    ``(d) Psychiatric Advanced Directives.--A funding agreement for a 
grant under section 1911 is that the State involved has in effect 
active programs that seek to engage individuals with serious mental 
illness in proactively making their own health care decisions and 
enhancing communication between themselves, their families, and their 
treatment providers by allowing for early intervention and reducing 
legal proceedings related to involuntary treatment by developing 
psychiatric advanced directives through a comprehensive program--
            ``(1) of assertive outreach and engagement services 
        focusing on individuals diagnosed with serious mental illness 
        or self-identifying as in recovery from serious mental illness 
        to obtain a psychiatric advanced directive; or
            ``(2) to support States in providing accessible legal 
        counsel to individuals diagnosed with serious mental 
        illness.''.

SEC. 207. TELEHEALTH CHILD PSYCHIATRY ACCESS GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of 
the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall award grants to 
States and Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as defined in section 
4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act) to 
promote behavioral health integration in pediatric primary care by--
            (1) supporting the creation of statewide child psychiatry 
        access programs; and
            (2) supporting the expansion of existing statewide or 
        regional child psychiatry access programs.
    (b) Program Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--To be eligible for funding under 
        subsection (a), a child psychiatry access program shall--
                    (A) be a statewide network of pediatric mental 
                health teams that provide support to pediatric primary 
                care sites as an integrated team;
                    (B) support and further develop organized State 
                networks of child and adolescent psychiatrists to 
                provide consultative support to pediatric primary care 
                sites;
                    (C) conduct an assessment of critical behavioral 
                consultation needs among pediatric providers and such 
                providers' preferred mechanisms for receiving 
                consultation and training and technical assistance;
                    (D) develop an online database and communication 
                mechanisms, including telehealth, to facilitate 
                consultation support to pediatric practices;
                    (E) provide rapid (within 30 minutes) statewide 
                clinical telephone consultations when requested between 
                the pediatric mental health teams and pediatric primary 
                care providers;
                    (F) conduct training and provide technical 
                assistance to pediatric primary care providers to 
                support the early identification, diagnosis, treatment, 
                and referral of children with behavioral health 
                conditions;
                    (G) inform and assist pediatric providers in 
                accessing child psychiatry consultations and in 
                scheduling and conducting technical assistance;
                    (H) assist with referrals to specialty care and 
                community and behavioral health resources; and
                    (I) establish mechanisms for measuring and 
                monitoring increased access to child and adolescent 
                psychiatric services by pediatric primary care 
                providers and expanded capacity of pediatric primary 
                care providers to identify, treat, and refer children 
                with mental health problems.
            (2) Pediatric mental health teams.--For purposes of this 
        subsection, the term ``pediatric mental health team'' means a 
        team of case coordinators, child and adolescent psychiatrists, 
        and a licensed clinical mental health professional, such as a 
        psychologist, social worker, or mental health counselor. Such a 
        team may be regionally based, provided there is access to a 
        pediatric mental health team across the State.
    (c) Application.--A State, political subdivision of a State, Indian 
tribe, or tribal organization that desires a grant under this section 
shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such 
manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
including a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities that are 
carried out with funds received under such grant.
    (d) Evaluation.--A State, political subdivision of a State, Indian 
tribe, or tribal organization that receives a grant under this section 
shall prepare and submit an evaluation to the Secretary at such time, 
in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
reasonably require, including an evaluation of activities carried out 
with funds received under such grant and a process and outcome 
evaluation.
    (e) Matching Requirement.--The Secretary may not award a grant 
under the grant program unless the State involved agrees, with respect 
to the costs to be incurred by the State in carrying out the purpose 
described in this section, to make available non-Federal contributions 
(in cash or in kind) toward such costs in an amount that is not less 
than 20 percent of Federal funds provided in the grant.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 
2017 and such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2018 
through 2021.

SEC. 208. LIABILITY PROTECTIONS FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONAL VOLUNTEERS 
              AT COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS AND COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH 
              CENTERS.

    Section 224 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 233) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q)(1) In this subsection, the term `community mental health 
center' means--
            ``(A) a community mental health center, as defined in 
        section 1861(ff) of the Social Security Act; or
            ``(B) a community mental health center meeting the criteria 
        specified in section 1913(c).
    ``(2) For purposes of this section, a health care professional 
volunteer at an entity described in subsection (g)(4) or a community 
mental health center shall, in providing health care services eligible 
for funding under section 330 or subpart I of part B of title XIX to an 
individual, be deemed to be an employee of the Public Health Service 
for a calendar year that begins during a fiscal year for which a 
transfer was made under paragraph (5)(C). The preceding sentence is 
subject to the provisions of this subsection.
    ``(3) In providing a health care service to an individual, a health 
care professional shall, for purposes of this subsection be considered 
to be a health professional volunteer at an entity described in 
subsection (g)(4) or at a community mental health center if the 
following conditions are met:
            ``(A) The service is provided to the individual at the 
        facilities of an entity described in subsection (g)(4), at a 
        federally qualified community behavioral health clinic, or 
        through offsite programs or events carried out by the center.
            ``(B) The center or entity is sponsoring the health care 
        professional volunteer pursuant to paragraph (4)(B).
            ``(C) The health care professional does not receive any 
        compensation for the service from the individual or from any 
        third-party payer (including reimbursement under any insurance 
        policy or health plan, or under any Federal or State health 
        benefits program), except that the health care professional may 
        receive repayment from the entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) or the center for reasonable expenses incurred by the 
        health care professional in the provision of the service to the 
        individual.
            ``(D) Before the service is provided, the health care 
        professional or the center or entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) posts a clear and conspicuous notice at the site where 
        the service is provided of the extent to which the legal 
        liability of the health care professional is limited pursuant 
        to this subsection.
            ``(E) At the time the service is provided, the health care 
        professional is licensed or certified in accordance with 
        applicable law regarding the provision of the service.
    ``(4) Subsection (g) (other than paragraphs (3) and (5)) and 
subsections (h), (i), and (l) apply to a health care professional for 
purposes of this subsection to the same extent and in the same manner 
as such subsections apply to an officer, governing board member, 
employee, or contractor of an entity described in subsection (g)(4), 
subject to paragraph (5) and subject to the following:
            ``(A) The first sentence of paragraph (2) applies in lieu 
        of the first sentence of subsection (g)(1)(A).
            ``(B) With respect to an entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) or a federally qualified community behavioral health 
        clinic, a health care professional is not a health professional 
        volunteer at such center unless the center sponsors the health 
        care professional. For purposes of this subsection, the center 
        shall be considered to be sponsoring the health care 
        professional if--
                    ``(i) with respect to the health care professional, 
                the center submits to the Secretary an application 
                meeting the requirements of subsection (g)(1)(D); and
                    ``(ii) the Secretary, pursuant to subsection 
                (g)(1)(E), determines that the health care professional 
                is deemed to be an employee of the Public Health 
                Service.
            ``(C) In the case of a health care professional who is 
        determined by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(E) to 
        be a health professional volunteer at such center, this 
        subsection applies to the health care professional (with 
        respect to services described in paragraph (2)) for any cause 
        of action arising from an act or omission of the health care 
        professional occurring on or after the date on which the 
        Secretary makes such determination.
            ``(D) Subsection (g)(1)(F) applies to a health professional 
        volunteer for purposes of this subsection only to the extent 
        that, in providing health services to an individual, each of 
        the conditions specified in paragraph (3) is met.
    ``(5)(A) Amounts in the fund established under subsection (k)(2) 
shall be available for transfer under subparagraph (C) for purposes of 
carrying out this subsection for health professional volunteers at 
entities described in subsection (g)(4).
    ``(B) Not later than May 1 of each fiscal year, the Attorney 
General, in consultation with the Secretary, shall submit to Congress a 
report providing an estimate of the amount of claims (together with 
related fees and expenses of witnesses) that, by reason of the acts or 
omissions of health care professional volunteers, will be paid pursuant 
to this subsection during the calendar year that begins in the 
following fiscal year. Subsection (k)(1)(B) applies to the estimate 
under the preceding sentence regarding health care professional 
volunteers to the same extent and in the same manner as such subsection 
applies to the estimate under such subsection regarding officers, 
governing board members, employees, and contractors of entities 
described in subsection (g)(4).
    ``(C) Not later than December 31 of each fiscal year, the Secretary 
shall transfer from the fund under subsection (k)(2) to the appropriate 
accounts in the Treasury an amount equal to the estimate made under 
subparagraph (B) for the calendar year beginning in such fiscal year, 
subject to the extent of amounts in the fund.
    ``(6)(A) This subsection takes effect on October 1, 2017, except as 
provided in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) Effective on the date of the enactment of this subsection--
            ``(i) the Secretary may issue regulations for carrying out 
        this subsection, and the Secretary may accept and consider 
        applications submitted pursuant to paragraph (4)(B); and
            ``(ii) reports under paragraph (5)(B) may be submitted to 
        Congress.''.

SEC. 209. MINORITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating part G (42 U.S.C. 290kk et seq.), 
        relating to services provided through religious organizations 
        and added by section 144 of the Community Renewal Tax Relief 
        Act of 2000, as enacted into law by section 1(a)(7) of Public 
        Law 106-554, as part J;
            (2) by redesignating sections 581 through 584 of part J, as 
        so redesignated, as sections 596 through 596C, respectively; 
        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:

                 ``PART K--MINORITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM

``SEC. 597. FELLOWSHIPS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain a program, to be 
known as the Minority Fellowship Program, under which the Secretary 
awards fellowships, which may include stipends, for the purposes of--
            ``(1) increasing behavioral health practitioners' knowledge 
        of issues related to prevention, treatment, and recovery 
        support for mental and substance use disorders among racial and 
        ethnic minority populations;
            ``(2) improving the quality of mental and substance use 
        disorder prevention and treatment delivered to ethnic 
        minorities; and
            ``(3) increasing the number of culturally competent 
        behavioral health professionals who teach, administer, conduct 
        services research, and provide direct mental health or 
        substance use services to underserved minority populations.
    ``(b) Training Covered.--The fellowships under subsection (a) shall 
be for postbaccalaureate training (including for master's and doctoral 
degrees) for mental health professionals, including in the fields of 
psychiatry, nursing, social work, psychology, marriage and family 
therapy, and substance use and addiction counseling.
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.''.

SEC. 210. NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS.

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) Primary health services.--Section 331(a)(3)(D) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)(D)) is amended 
        by inserting ``(including pediatric mental health subspecialty 
        services)'' after ``pediatrics''.
            (2) Behavioral and mental health professionals.--Clause (i) 
        of section 331(a)(3)(E)(i) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)(E)(i)) is amended by inserting ``, including 
        such professionals who are pediatric subspecialists'' before 
        the period at the end.
            (3) Health professional shortage area.--Section 332(a)(1) 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254e(a)(1)) is 
        amended by inserting ``(which may be a group comprised of 
        children and adolescents)'' after ``population group''.
            (4) Medical facility.--Section 332(a)(2)(A) of the Public 
        Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254e(a)(2)(A)) is amended by 
        inserting ``medical residency or fellowship training site for 
        training in child and adolescent psychiatry,'' before 
        ``facility operated by a city or county health department,''.
    (b) Eligibility To Participate in Loan Repayment Program.--Section 
338B(b)(1)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254l-
1(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ``, including any child and 
adolescent psychiatry medical residency or fellowship training 
program'' before the semicolon.

SEC. 211. REAUTHORIZATION OF MENTAL AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH EDUCATION 
              TRAINING GRANT.

    Section 756 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 294e-1) is 
amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 756. MENTAL AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING GRANTS.

    ``(a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary, acting through the 
Administrators of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Administration 
and the Health Resources and Services Administration, may award grants 
to eligible institutions to support the recruitment of students for, 
and education and clinical experience of the students in--
            ``(1) accredited institutions of higher education or 
        accredited professional training programs that are establishing 
        or expanding internships or other field placement programs in 
        mental health in psychiatry, psychology, school psychology, 
        behavioral pediatrics, psychiatric nursing, social work, school 
        social work, substance abuse prevention and treatment, marriage 
        and family therapy, school counseling, or professional 
        counseling, with a preference for programs addressing child and 
        adolescent mental health, in particular transitional age youth 
        between 16 to 25 years old;
            ``(2) accredited doctoral, internship, and post-doctoral 
        residency programs of health service psychology (which includes 
        clinical psychology, counseling, and school psychology) for the 
        development and implementation of interdisciplinary training of 
        psychology graduate students for providing behavioral and 
        mental health services, including substance abuse prevention 
        and treatment services, as well as the development of faculty 
        in health service psychology;
            ``(3) accredited master's and doctoral degree programs of 
        social work for the development and implementation of 
        interdisciplinary training of social work graduate students for 
        providing behavioral and mental health services, including 
        substance abuse prevention and treatment services, and the 
        development of faculty in social work; or
            ``(4) paraprofessional certificate training programs 
        offered by accredited community and technical colleges granting 
        State licensure or certification in a behavioral health-related 
        paraprofessional field, such as community health worker, 
        outreach worker, social services aide, mental health worker, 
        substance abuse or addictions worker, youth worker, promotora, 
        or peer paraprofessional, with preference for pre-service or 
        in-service training of paraprofessional child and adolescent 
        mental health workers.
    ``(b) Eligibility Requirements.--To be eligible to receive a grant 
under this section, an institution shall demonstrate--
            ``(1) an ability to recruit and place psychiatrists, 
        psychologists, social workers, or paraprofessionals in areas 
        with a high need and high demand population;
            ``(2) participation of individuals and groups from 
        different racial, ethnic, cultural, geographic, religious, 
        linguistic, and class backgrounds, and different genders and 
        orientations in the institution's programs;
            ``(3) knowledge and understanding of the concerns of the 
        individuals and groups described in paragraph (2), especially 
        individuals with mental health symptoms or diagnoses, 
        particularly children and adolescents, with a special emphasis 
        on transitional-aged persons 16 to 25 years old;
            ``(4) prioritization of cultural and linguistic competency 
        in training professionals and paraprofessionals in any academic 
        program, field placement, internship, or post-doctoral 
        position; and
            ``(5) the willingness to provide to the Secretary such 
        data, assurances, and information as the Secretary may require.
    ``(c) Priority.--In selecting grant recipients the Secretary shall 
give priority to--
            ``(1) programs that have demonstrated the ability to train 
        psychology and social work professionals to work in integrated 
        care settings; and
            ``(2) programs for paraprofessionals that offer curriculum 
        with an emphasis on the role of the family and the lived 
        experience of the consumer and family-paraprofessional 
        partnerships.
    ``(d) Institutional Requirement.--Of the grants awarded under 
paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a), at least 4 of the grant 
recipients shall be historically black colleges or other minority 
serving institutions.
    ``(e) Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
enactment of the Mental Health Reform Act of 2015, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary, acting through the Administrators of the 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and the 
Health Resources Services Administration, shall submit to Congress a 
report on the effectiveness of--
            ``(1) providing graduate students support for experiential 
        training (internship or field placement);
            ``(2) recruitment of students interested in behavioral 
        health practice;
            ``(3) development and implementation of interprofessional 
        training and integration within primary care;
            ``(4) development and implementation of accredited field 
        placements and internships; and
            ``(5) data collected on the number of students trained in 
        mental health and the number of available accredited 
        internships and field placements.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--For each of fiscal years 
2017 through 2021, there are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this section $44,000,000, to be allocated as follows:
            ``(1) $15,000,000 shall be allocated to institutions to 
        expand mental health internships or other field placement 
        programs under subsection (a)(1).
            ``(2) $14,000,000 shall be allocated to training in 
        graduate psychology under subsection (a)(2).
            ``(3) $10,000,000 shall be allocated to training in 
        graduate social work under subsection (a)(3).
            ``(4) $5,000,000 shall be allocated to training 
        paraprofessionals under subsection (a)(4).''.

SEC. 212. NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE PROGRAM.

    Subpart 3 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 290bb-31 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 520E-2 
the following:

``SEC. 520E-3. NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain the National 
Suicide Prevention Lifeline program. The activities of the Secretary 
under such program shall include--
            ``(1) coordinating a network of crisis centers across the 
        Nation for providing suicide prevention and crisis intervention 
        services to individuals seeking help at any time, day or night;
            ``(2) maintaining a suicide prevention hotline to link 
        callers to local emergency, mental health, and social services 
        resources; and
            ``(3) consulting with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
        ensure that veterans calling the suicide prevention hotline 
        have access to a specialized veterans' suicide prevention 
        hotline.
    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2020.''.

                         TITLE III--INTEGRATION

SEC. 301. PRIMARY AND BEHAVIORAL HEALTH CARE INTEGRATION GRANT 
              PROGRAMS.

    Section 520K of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-42) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 520K. INTEGRATION INCENTIVE GRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--There is established within the Substance Abuse 
and Mental Health Services Administration a primary and behavioral 
health care integration grant program. The Assistant Secretary for 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders may award grants and 
cooperative agreements to eligible entities to expend funds for 
improvements in integrated settings with integrated practices.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Integrated care.--The term `integrated care' means 
        full collaboration in merged or transformed practices offering 
        mental and physical health services within the same shared 
        practice space in the same facility, where the entity--
                    ``(A) provides services in a shared space that 
                ensures services will be available and accessible 
                promptly and in a manner which preserves human dignity 
                and assures continuity of care;
                    ``(B) ensures communication among the integrated 
                care team that is consistent and team-based;
                    ``(C) ensures shared decisionmaking between mental 
                health and primary care providers;
                    ``(D) provides evidence-based services in a mode of 
                service delivery appropriate for the target population;
                    ``(E) employs staff who are multidisciplinary and 
                culturally and linguistically competent;
                    ``(F) provides integrated services related to 
                screening, diagnosis, and treatment of mental illness 
                and co-occurring primary care conditions and chronic 
                diseases; and
                    ``(G) provides targeted case management, including 
                services to assist individuals gaining access to needed 
                medical, social, educational, and other services and 
                applying for income security, housing, employment, and 
                other benefits to which they may be entitled.
            ``(2) Integrated care team.--The term `integrated care 
        team' means a team that includes--
                    ``(A) allopathic or osteopathic medical doctors, 
                including a primary care physician and a board 
                certified psychiatrist;
                    ``(B) licensed clinical mental health 
                professionals, such as psychologists or social workers;
                    ``(C) a case manager; and
                    ``(D) other members, which may include psychiatric 
                advanced practice nurses and other allied health 
                professionals, such as mental health counselors, or 
                others as appropriate.
            ``(3) Special population.--The term `special population' 
        means--
                    ``(A) adults with mental illnesses who have co-
                occurring primary care conditions with chronic 
                diseases;
                    ``(B) adults with serious mental illnesses who have 
                co-occurring primary care conditions with chronic 
                diseases;
                    ``(C) children and adolescents with serious 
                emotional disorders with co-occurring primary care 
                conditions and chronic diseases; or
                    ``(D) individuals with substance use disorder.
    ``(c) Purpose.--The grant program under this section shall be 
designed to lead to full collaboration between primary and behavioral 
health in an integrated practice model at a statewide level, to ensure 
that--
            ``(1) the overall wellness and physical health status of 
        individuals with serious mental illness and co-occurring 
        substance use disorders is supported through integration of 
        primary care into community mental health centers meeting the 
        criteria specified in section 1913(c) of the Social Security 
        Act or certified community behavioral health clinics described 
        in section 223 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 
        2014; and
            ``(2) the mental health status of individuals with 
        significant co-occurring psychiatric and physical conditions 
        will be supported through integration of behavioral health into 
        primary care settings.
    ``(d) Eligible Entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant or 
cooperative agreement under this section, an entity shall be a State 
department of health, State mental health or addiction agency, or State 
Medicaid agency. The Administrator shall give preference to States that 
have existing integrated care models, such as those authorized by 
section 1945 of the Social Security Act.
    ``(e) Application.--An eligible entity desiring a grant or 
cooperative agreement under this section shall submit an application to 
the Administrator at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such 
information as the Administrator may require, including a description 
of a plan to achieve fully collaborative agreements to provide services 
to special populations and--
            ``(1) a document that summarizes the State-specific 
        policies that inhibit the provision of integrated care, and the 
        specific steps that will be taken to address such barriers, 
        such as through licensing and billing procedures; and
            ``(2) a plan to develop and share a de-identified patient 
        registry to track treatment implementation and clinical 
        outcomes to inform clinical interventions, patient education, 
        and engagement with merged or transformed integrated practices 
        in compliance with applicable national and State health 
        information privacy laws.
    ``(f) Grant Amounts.--The maximum annual grant amount under this 
section shall be $2,000,000, of which not more than 10 percent may be 
allocated to State administrative functions, and the remaining amounts 
shall be allocated to health facilities that provide integrated care.
    ``(g) Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a period 
of 5 years.
    ``(h) Report on Program Outcomes.--An entity receiving a grant or 
cooperative agreement under this section shall submit an annual report 
to the Administrator that includes--
            ``(1) the progress to reduce barriers to integrated care, 
        including regulatory and billing barriers, as described in the 
        entity's application under subsection (d); and
            ``(2) a description of functional outcomes of special 
        populations, including--
                    ``(A) with respect to individuals with serious 
                mental illness, participation in supportive housing or 
                independent living programs, attendance in social and 
                rehabilitative programs, participation in job training 
                opportunities, satisfactory performance in work 
                settings, attendance at scheduled medical and mental 
                health appointments, and compliance with prescribed 
                medication regimes;
                    ``(B) with respect to individuals with co-occurring 
                mental illness and primary care conditions and chronic 
                diseases, attendance at scheduled medical and mental 
                health appointments, compliance with prescribed 
                medication regimes, and participation in learning 
                opportunities related to improved health and lifestyle 
                practice; and
                    ``(C) with respect to children and adolescents with 
                serious emotional disorders who have co-occurring 
                primary care conditions and chronic diseases, 
                attendance at scheduled medical and mental health 
                appointments, compliance with prescribed medication 
                regimes, and participation in learning opportunities at 
                school and extracurricular activities.
    ``(i) Technical Assistance Center for Primary-Behavioral Health 
Care Integration.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental 
        Health and Substance Use Disorders shall establish a program 
        through which such Assistant Secretary shall provide 
        appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to 
        eligible entities that receive a grant or cooperative agreement 
        under this section, in order to help such entities to meet the 
        requirements of this section, including assistance with--
                    ``(A) development and selection of integrated care 
                models;
                    ``(B) dissemination of evidence-based interventions 
                in integrated care;
                    ``(C) establishment of organizational practices to 
                support operational and administrative success; and
                    ``(D) other activities, as the Assistant Secretary 
                for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders 
                determines appropriate.
            ``(2) Additional dissemination of technical information.--
        The information and resources provided by the technical 
        assistance program established under paragraph (1) shall be 
        made available to States, political subdivisions of a State, 
        Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as defined in section 4 
        of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act), 
        outpatient mental health and addiction treatment centers, 
        community mental health centers that meet the criteria under 
        section 1913(c), certified community behavioral health clinics 
        described in section 223 of the Protecting Access to Medicare 
        Act of 2014, primary care organizations such as Federally 
        qualified health centers or rural health centers, other 
        community-based organizations, or other entities engaging in 
        integrated care activities, as the Assistant Secretary for 
        Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders determines 
        appropriate.
    ``(j) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021, of which $2,000,000 shall be available to the 
technical assistance program under subsection (i).''.

  TITLE IV--INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE

SEC. 401. INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting 
after section 501 the following:

``SEC. 501A. INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
Substance Use Disorders (in this section referred to as the `Assistant 
Secretary') shall establish a committee, to be known as the Interagency 
Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee (in this section referred 
to as the `Committee'), to assist the Assistant Secretary in carrying 
out the Assistant Secretary's duties.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Committee shall--
            ``(1) develop and annually update a summary of advances in 
        serious mental illness research related to prevention of, 
        diagnosis of, intervention in, and treatment and rehabilitation 
        of, serious mental illness, and access to services and supports 
        for individuals with serious mental illness;
            ``(2) monitor Federal programs and activities with respect 
        to serious mental illness;
            ``(3) make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary 
        regarding any appropriate changes to such activities, including 
        recommendations to the Director of NIH with respect to the 
        strategic plan developed under paragraph (5);
            ``(4) make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary 
        regarding public participation in decisions relating to serious 
        mental illness;
            ``(5) develop and update every 3 years a strategic plan for 
        the conduct and support of programs and services to assist 
        individuals with serious mental illness, including--
                    ``(A) a summary of the advances in serious mental 
                illness research developed in under paragraph (1);
                    ``(B) a list of the Federal programs and activities 
                identified in paragraph (2);
                    ``(C) an analysis of the efficiency, effectiveness, 
                quality, coordination, and cost-effectiveness of 
                Federal programs and activities relating to the 
                prevention, diagnosis, treatment, or rehabilitation of 
                serious mental illness, including an accounting of the 
                costs of such programs and activities with 
                administrative costs disaggregated from the costs of 
                services and care; and
                    ``(D) a plan with recommendations--
                            ``(i) for the coordination and improvement 
                        of Federal programs and activities related to 
                        serious mental illness, including budgetary 
                        requirements;
                            ``(ii) for improving outcomes for 
                        individuals with a serious mental illness 
                        including appropriate benchmarks to measure 
                        progress on achieving improvements;
                            ``(iii) for the mental health workforce;
                            ``(iv) to disseminate relevant information 
                        developed by the coordinating committee to the 
                        public, health care providers, social service 
                        providers, public health officials, courts, law 
                        enforcement, and other relevant groups;
                            ``(v) to identify research needs, including 
                        longitudinal studies of pediatric populations; 
                        and
                            ``(vi) for vulnerable and underserved 
                        populations, including pediatric and geriatric 
                        populations; and
            ``(6) submit to Congress such strategic plan and any 
        updates to such plan.
    ``(c) Membership.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Committee shall be composed of not 
        more than 9 Federal representatives including--
                    ``(A) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
                Substance Use Disorders (or the Assistant Secretary's 
                designee), who shall serve as the Chair of the 
                Committee;
                    ``(B) the Director of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health (or the Director's designee);
                    ``(C) the Attorney General of the United States (or 
                the Attorney General's designee);
                    ``(D) the Director of the Centers for Disease 
                Control and Prevention (or the Director's designee);
                    ``(E) the Director of the National Institutes of 
                Health (or the Director's designee);
                    ``(F) a member of the United States Interagency 
                Council on Homelessness;
                    ``(G) representatives, appointed by the Assistant 
                Secretary, of Federal agencies that serve individuals 
                with serious mental illness, including representatives 
                of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the 
                Administration on Community Living, the Agency for 
                Healthcare Research and Quality, the Bureau of Indian 
                Affairs, the Department of Defense, the Department of 
                Education, the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development, the Department of Labor, the Department of 
                Veterans Affairs, and the Social Security 
                Administration; and
                    ``(H) the additional members appointed under 
                paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Additional members.--At least 14 members of the 
        Committee shall be non-Federal public members appointed by the 
        Assistant Secretary, of which--
                    ``(A) at least 1 member shall be an individual in 
                recovery from a diagnosis of serious mental illness who 
                has benefitted from and is receiving medical treatment 
                under the care of a licensed mental health 
                professional;
                    ``(B) at least 1 member shall be a parent or legal 
                guardian of an individual with a history of serious 
                mental illness who has either attempted suicide or is 
                incarcerated for violence committed while experiencing 
                a serious mental illness;
                    ``(C) at least 1 member shall be a representative 
                of a leading research, advocacy, and service 
                organization for individuals with serious mental 
                illness;
                    ``(D) at least 2 members shall be--
                            ``(i) a licensed psychiatrist with 
                        experience treating serious mental illness;
                            ``(ii) a licensed psychologist with 
                        experience treating serious mental illness;
                            ``(iii) a licensed clinical social worker; 
                        or
                            ``(iv) a licensed psychiatric nurse or 
                        nurse practitioner;
                    ``(E) at least 1 member shall be a mental health 
                professional with a significant focus in his or her 
                practice on working with children and adolescents;
                    ``(F) at least 1 member shall be a mental health 
                professional who has demonstrated cultural competencies 
                and has research or clinical mental health experience 
                working with minorities;
                    ``(G) at least 1 member shall be a State certified 
                mental health peer specialist;
                    ``(H) at least 1 member shall be a judge with 
                experience adjudicating cases related to criminal 
                justice and serious mental illness;
                    ``(I) at least 1 member shall be a law enforcement 
                officer or corrections officer with extensive 
                experience in interfacing with psychiatric and 
                psychological disorders or individuals in mental health 
                crisis; and
                    ``(J) 4 members, of which--
                            ``(i) 1 shall be appointed by the majority 
                        leader of the Senate;
                            ``(ii) 1 shall be appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the Senate;
                            ``(iii) 1 shall be appointed by the Speaker 
                        of the House of Representatives; and
                            ``(iv) 1 shall be appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the House of Representatives.
    ``(d) Reports to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
release of the first strategic plan under subsection (b)(5) and 
annually thereafter, the Committee shall submit a report to Congress--
            ``(1) evaluating the impact on public health of projects 
        addressing priority mental health needs of regional and 
        national significance under sections 501, 509, 516, and 520A, 
        including measurement of public health outcomes such as--
                    ``(A) reduced rates of suicide, suicide attempts, 
                substance abuse, overdose, overdose deaths, emergency 
                hospitalizations, emergency room boarding (as defined 
                in section 1912(e)), incarceration, crime, arrest, 
                homelessness, and joblessness;
                    ``(B) increased rates of employment and enrollment 
                in educational and vocational programs; and
                    ``(C) such other criteria as may be determined by 
                the Assistant Secretary;
            ``(2) formulating recommendations for the coordination and 
        improvement of Federal programs and activities described in 
        paragraph (2);
            ``(3) identifying any such programs and activities that are 
        duplicative; and
            ``(4) summarizing all recommendations made, activities 
        carried out, and results achieved pursuant to the workforce 
        development strategy under section 101(c)(8) of the Mental 
        Health Reform Act of 2015.
    ``(e) Administrative Support; Terms of Service; Other Provisions.--
The following provisions shall apply with respect to the Committee:
            ``(1) The Assistant Secretary shall provide such 
        administrative support to the Committee as may be necessary for 
        the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
            ``(2) Members of the Committee appointed under subsection 
        (c)(2) shall serve for a term of 4 years, and may be 
        reappointed for one or more additional 4-year terms. Any member 
        appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall be 
        appointed for the remainder of such term. A member may serve 
        after the expiration of the member's term until a successor has 
        taken office.
            ``(3) The Committee shall meet at the call of the chair or 
        upon the request of the Assistant Secretary. The Committee 
        shall meet not fewer than 2 times each year.
            ``(4) All meetings of the Committee shall be public and 
        shall include appropriate time periods for questions and 
        presentations by the public.
    ``(f) Subcommittees; Establishment and Membership.--In carrying out 
its functions, the Committee may establish subcommittees and convene 
workshops and conferences. Such subcommittees shall be composed of 
Committee members and may hold such meetings as are necessary to enable 
the subcommittees to carry out their duties.''.

                      TITLE V--HIPAA CLARIFICATION

SEC. 501. FINDINGS.

    The Senate makes the following findings:
            (1) The privacy regulations promulgated under section 
        264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note) recognize the value of family 
        members in the health and well-being of individuals 
        experiencing temporary psychosis. However, a lack of 
        understanding by health professionals has been a barrier to 
        many family members assisting in the treatment of an individual 
        with serious mental illness.
            (2) The privacy rule under section 164.510(b)(2) of title 
        45, Code of Federal Regulations allows for the disclosure of 
        protected health information in the event that a covered entity 
        receives the individual's agreement provides an opportunity for 
        an individual to object, and the individual does not express an 
        objection or the covered entity reasonably infers that the 
        individual does not object.
            (3) The privacy rule under section 164.510(b)(3) of title 
        45, Code of Federal Regulations allows for the disclosure of 
        protected health information if an individual is not present or 
        is otherwise incapacitated if the medical provider determines 
        that the disclosure is in the best interests of the individual.
            (4) Engagement by family members has been shown to help 
        individuals with serious mental illness adhere to a treatment 
        plan and improved outcomes.
            (5) Whenever possible, an individual who is the subject of 
        protected health information shall be given advanced notice of 
        the desire to share information with family members or other 
        caregivers. This notice should include an explanation of what 
        information is to be shared and why it is clinically desirable 
        to share such information.
            (6) The use of psychiatric advance directives should be 
        encouraged for individuals with serious mental illness.

SEC. 502. MODIFICATIONS TO HIPAA.

    In applying section 164.510(b)(3) of title 45, Code of Federal 
Regulations, for the purposes of assisting health professionals to 
determine the best interests of the individual, the Secretary of Health 
and Human Services shall consider the following factors:
            (1) Timely intervention for treatment of a serious mental 
        or general medical illness.
            (2) Safe and stable housing for the individual.
            (3) Increased daily living skills that are likely to allow 
        the individual to live within the community.
            (4) An increased capacity of caregivers to support the 
        patient to live within the community.

SEC. 503. DEVELOPMENT AND DISSEMINATION OF MODEL TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    (a) Initial Programs and Materials.--Not later than 1 year after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
Services (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary''), in 
consultation with appropriate experts, shall develop and disseminate--
            (1) a model program and materials for training health care 
        providers (including physicians, emergency medical personnel, 
        psychiatrists, psychologists, counselors, therapists, 
        behavioral health facilities and clinics, care managers, and 
        hospitals) regarding the circumstances under which, consistent 
        with the standards governing the privacy and security of 
        individually identifiable health information promulgated by the 
        Secretary under section 264 of the Health Insurance Portability 
        and Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note) and 
        part C of title XI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d 
        et seq.), the protected health information of patients with a 
        mental illness may be disclosed with and without patient 
        consent;
            (2) a model program and materials for training lawyers and 
        others in the legal profession on such circumstances; and
            (3) a model program and materials for training patients and 
        their families regarding their rights to protect and obtain 
        information under the standards specified in paragraph (1).
    (b) Periodic Updates.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) periodically review, evaluate, and update the model 
        programs and materials developed under subsection (a); and
            (2) disseminate the updated model programs and materials.
    (c) Contents.--The programs and materials developed under 
subsection (a) shall address the guidance entitled ``HIPAA Privacy Rule 
and Sharing Information Related to Mental Health'', issued by the 
Department of Health and Human Services on February 20, 2014.
    (d) Coordination.--The Secretary shall carry out this section in 
coordination with the Director of the Office for Civil Rights within 
the Department of Health and Human Services, the Administrator of the 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the 
Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, and 
the heads of other relevant agencies within the Department of Health 
and Human Services.
    (e) Input of Certain Entities.--In developing the model programs 
and materials required under subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary 
shall solicit the input of relevant national, State, and local 
associations, medical societies, and licensing boards.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2022.

SEC. 504. CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.

    Section 543 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2) is 
amended by inserting after subsection (h) the following:
    ``(i) Streamlined Consent in Integrated Care Settings.--
            ``(1) In general.--For the sharing of records described in 
        subsection (a) involving the interchange of electronic health 
        records (as defined in section 13400 of division A of Public 
        Law 111-5) solely for the purposes of improving the provision 
        of health care and health care coordination solely within 
        accountable care organizations described in section 1899 of the 
        Social Security Act, health information exchanges (as defined 
        for purposes of section 3013), health homes (as defined in 
        section 1945(h)(3) of the Social Security Act), or other 
        integrated care arrangements (in existence before, on, or after 
        the date of the enactment of the Mental Health Reform Act of 
        2015), a patient's prior written or electronic consent for 
        disclosure and re-disclosure of records may be provided 
        annually in a generalized and revocable format to and for all 
        of the health care providers in the accountable care 
        organization, health information exchange, health home, or 
        other integrated care arrangement, who are involved in the 
        patient's care.
            ``(2) Disclosure required.--For all other disclosures or 
        re-disclosures of the records described in subsection (a), 
        except those expressly proscribed in paragraph 1, patient 
        consent is required to be obtained in accordance with the 
        procedures described in part 2 of title 42, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            ``(3) Prohibitions.--It shall be unlawful for any health 
        plan or health insurance program to use the records described 
        in subsection (a) or this subsection to deny or condition the 
        issuance of a plan, policy, or coverage on the basis of the 
        contents of such records, or for a health care provider to use 
        the records described in subsection (a) and this section to 
        discriminate in the provision of medically necessary health 
        care services to an individual who is the subject of such 
        records.''.

                TITLE VI--MEDICARE AND MEDICAID REFORMS

SEC. 601. ENHANCED MEDICAID COVERAGE RELATING TO CERTAIN MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES.

    (a) Medicaid Coverage of Mental Health Services and Primary Care 
Services Furnished on the Same Day.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1902(a) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph 
        (77) the following new paragraph:
            ``(78) not prohibit payment under the plan for a mental 
        health service or primary care service furnished to an 
        individual at a community mental health center meeting the 
        criteria specified in section 1913(c) of the Public Health 
        Service Act or a Federally qualified health center (as defined 
        in section 1861(aa)(4)) for which payment would otherwise be 
        payable under the plan, with respect to such individual, if 
        such service were not a same-day qualifying service (as defined 
        in subsection (ll)).''.
            (2) Same-day qualifying services defined.--Section 1902 of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a) is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(ll) Same-Day Qualifying Services Defined.--For purposes of 
subsection (a)(78), the term `same-day qualifying service' means--
            ``(1) a primary care service furnished to an individual by 
        a provider at a facility on the same day a mental health 
        service is furnished to such individual by such provider (or 
        another provider) at the facility; and
            ``(2) a mental health service furnished to an individual by 
        a provider at a facility on the same day a primary care service 
        is furnished to such individual by such provider (or another 
        provider) at the facility.''.
    (b) State Option To Provide Medical Assistance for Certain 
Inpatient Psychiatric Services to Nonelderly Adults.--Section 1905 of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (16)--
                            (i) by striking ``effective'' and inserting 
                        ``(A) effective''; and
                            (ii) by inserting before the semicolon at 
                        the end the following: ``, and (B) qualified 
                        inpatient psychiatric hospital services (as 
                        defined in subsection (h)(3)) for individuals 
                        over 21 years of age and under 65 years of 
                        age''; and
                    (B) in the subdivision (B) that follows paragraph 
                (29), by inserting ``(other than services described in 
                subparagraph (B) of paragraph (16) for individuals 
                described in such subparagraph)'' after ``patient in an 
                institution for mental diseases''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraph:
            ``(3) For purposes of subsection (a)(16)(B), the term 
        `qualified inpatient psychiatric hospital services'' means, 
        with respect to individuals described in such subsection, 
        services described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph 
        (1) that are furnished in an acute care psychiatric unit in a 
        State-operated psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric hospital 
        (as defined section 1861(f)) if such unit or hospital, as 
        applicable, has a facility-wide average (determined on an 
        annual basis) length of stay of less than 20 days.''.
    (c) Study and Report.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary shall conduct a study to 
        determine the impact of the amendments made by this section on 
        the Medicaid IMD exclusion.
            (2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a 
        report containing the results of the study conducted under 
        paragraph (1). The report shall include the following 
        information:
                    (A) An assessment of the level of State 
                expenditures on short-term acute inpatient psychiatric 
                hospital care for which no Federal financial 
                participation is provided for the most recent State 
                fiscal year ending prior to the effective date of the 
                amendments made by this section and an analysis of the 
                impact of the changes to the Medicaid IMD exclusion 
                made by such amendments on State expenditures for such 
                care.
                    (B) An assessment of the extent to which States 
                used disproportionate share hospital payment 
                adjustments described in section 1923 of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-4) to fund short-term 
                acute inpatient psychiatric hospital care prior to the 
                effective date of the amendments made by this section 
                and an analysis of the impact of the changes to the 
                Medicaid IMD exclusion made by such amendments on the 
                use of such payment adjustments to fund such care.
                    (C) The total amount by which State expenditures 
                and the extent to which States use disproportionate 
                share hospital payment adjustments for short-term acute 
                inpatient psychiatric hospital care have been reduced 
                due to the changes to the Medicaid IMD exclusion made 
                by the amendments made by this section.
                    (D) Recommendations for strategies to encourage 
                States to reinvest savings in State expenditures and 
                disproportionate share hospital payment adjustments 
                that result from the changes to the Medicaid IMD 
                exclusion made by the amendments made by this section 
                in community-based mental health services.
            (3) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection:
                    (A) Medicaid imd exclusion.--The term ``Medicaid 
                IMD exclusion'' means the prohibition on Federal 
                matching payments under Medicaid for care or services 
                provided to patients who have attained age 22, but have 
                not attained age 65, in an institution for mental 
                diseases under subdivision (B) of the matter following 
                paragraph (29) of section 1905(a) of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)).
                    (B) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the 
                Secretary of Health and Human Services.
                    (C) Short-term acute inpatient psychiatric hospital 
                care.--The term ``short-term acute inpatient 
                psychiatric hospital care'' means care provided in 
                either--
                            (i) an acute-care psychiatric unit with an 
                        average annual length of stay of fewer than 20 
                        days that is operated within a State-operated 
                        psychiatric hospital; or
                            (ii) a psychiatric hospital with an average 
                        length of stay of fewer than 20 days on an 
                        annual basis.
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        amendments made by this section shall apply to items and 
        services furnished after the first day of the first calendar 
        year that begins after the date of the enactment of this 
        section.
            (2) Certification of no increased spending.--The amendments 
        made by this section shall not be effective unless the Chief 
        Actuary of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
        certifies that the inclusion of qualified inpatient psychiatric 
        hospital services (as defined by paragraph (3) of section 
        1905(h) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(h)), as 
        added by subsection (b)) furnished to nonelderly adults as 
        medical assistance under section 1905(a) of the Social Security 
        Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(a)), as amended by subsection (b), would 
        not result in any increase in net program spending under title 
        XIX of such Act.
            (3) Exception for state legislation.--In the case of a 
        State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act, which 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires 
        State legislation in order for the respective plan to meet any 
        requirement imposed by amendments made by this section, the 
        respective plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply with 
        the requirements of such title solely on the basis of its 
        failure to meet such an additional requirement before the first 
        day of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of 
        the first regular session of the State legislature that begins 
        after the date of enactment of this section. For purposes of 
        the previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year 
        legislative session, each year of the session shall be 
        considered to be a separate regular session of the State 
        legislature.

SEC. 602. MODIFICATIONS TO MEDICARE DISCHARGE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 1861(ee) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(ee)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and, in the case of a 
        psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric unit (as described in the 
        matter following clause (v) of section 1886(d)(1)(B)), if it 
        also meets the guidelines and standards established by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (4)'' before the period at the end; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(4) The Secretary shall develop guidelines and standards, 
        in addition to those developed under paragraph (2), for the 
        discharge planning process of a psychiatric hospital or a 
        psychiatric unit (as described in the matter following clause 
        (v) of section 1886(d)(1)(B)) in order to ensure a timely and 
        smooth transition to the most appropriate type of, and setting 
        for, posthospital or rehabilitative care. The Secretary shall 
        issue final regulations implementing such guidelines and 
        standards not later than 24 months after the date of the 
        enactment of this paragraph. The guidelines and standards shall 
        include the following:
                    ``(A) The hospital or unit must identify the types 
                of services needed upon discharge by a patient being 
                treated by the hospital or unit.
                    ``(B) The hospital or unit must--
                            ``(i) identify organizations that offer 
                        community services to the community that is 
                        served by the hospital or unit and the types of 
                        services provided by the organizations; and
                            ``(ii) make demonstrated efforts to 
                        establish connections, relationships, and 
                        partnerships with such organizations.
                    ``(C) The hospital or unit must arrange (with the 
                participation of the patient and of any other 
                individuals selected by the patient for such purpose) 
                for the development and implementation of a discharge 
                plan for the patient as part of the patient's overall 
                treatment plan from admission to discharge. Such 
                discharge plan shall meet the requirements described in 
                subparagraphs (G) and (H) of paragraph (2).
                    ``(D) The hospital or unit shall coordinate with 
                the patient (or assist the patient with) the referral 
                for posthospital or rehabilitative care and as part of 
                that referral the hospital or unit shall include 
                transmitting to the receiving organization, in a timely 
                manner, appropriate information about the care 
                furnished to the patient by the hospital or unit and 
                recommendations for posthospital or rehabilitative care 
                to be furnished to the patient by the organization.''.

       TITLE VII--RESEARCH BY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH

SEC. 701. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH.

    Section 402A(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
282a(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Funding for the brain initiative at the national 
        institute of mental health.--
                    ``(A) Funding.--In addition to amounts made 
                available pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), there are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the National Institute 
                of Mental Health for the purposes described in 
                subparagraph (B) $40,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
                2017 through 2021.
                    ``(B) Purposes.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall be used exclusively for the 
                purpose of conducting or supporting--
                            ``(i) research on the determinants of self- 
                        and other directed-violence in mental illness, 
                        including studies directed at reducing the risk 
                        of self harm, suicide, and interpersonal 
                        violence; or
                            ``(ii) brain research through the Brain 
                        Research through Advancing Innovative 
                        Neurotechnologies Initiative.''.

             TITLE VIII--SAMHSA REAUTHORIZATION AND REFORMS

            Subtitle A--Organization and General Authorities

SEC. 801. PEER REVIEW.

    (a) Section 501(h) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
290aa(h)) is amended by inserting at the end the following: ``In the 
case of any such peer-review group that is reviewing a proposal or 
grant related to mental illness, no fewer than half of the members of 
the group shall have a medical degree, a doctoral degree in psychology, 
or advanced degree in nursing or social work from an accredited 
graduate school, and shall specialize in the mental health field.''.
    (b) Section 504 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-
3) is amended by adding at the end of subsection (b) the following: 
``At least half of the members of any peer-review group established 
under subsection (a) shall have a medical degree, a doctoral degree in 
psychology, or advanced degree in nursing or social work from an 
accredited graduate school, and shall specialize in the mental health 
field.''.

SEC. 802. ADVISORY COUNCILS.

    Paragraph (3) of section 502(b) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290aa-1(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Not fewer than half of the members of the 
                group shall have a medical degree, a doctoral degree in 
                psychology, or advanced degree in nursing or social 
                work from an accredited graduate school and shall 
                specialize in the mental health field.
                    ``(D) Each advisory committee shall include at 
                least one member of the National Institute of Mental 
                Health and 1 member from any Federal agency that has a 
                program serving a similar population.''.

SEC. 803. GRANTS FOR JAIL DIVERSION PROGRAMS REAUTHORIZATION.

    Section 520G(i) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-
38(i)) is amended by striking ``$10,000,000 for fiscal year 2001, and 
such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2002 through 2003'' and 
inserting ``$5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021''.

SEC. 804. PROJECTS FOR ASSISTANCE IN TRANSITION FROM HOMELESSNESS.

    Section 535(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290cc-
35(a)) is amended by striking ``$75,000,000 for each of the fiscal 
years 2001 through 2003'' and inserting ``$65,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2017 through 2021''.

SEC. 805. COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES FOR CHILDREN 
              WITH SERIOUS EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCES.

    Section 565 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ff-4) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(1), by striking ``receiving a grant 
        under section 561(a)'' and inserting ``(irrespective of whether 
        the public entity is in receipt of a grant under section 
        561(a))'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(1)(B), by striking ``pursuant to 
        section 562'' and inserting ``described in section 562''; and
            (3) in subsection (f)(1), by striking ``$100,000,000 for 
        fiscal year 2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of 
        the fiscal years 2002 and 2003'' and inserting ``$117,000,000 
        for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021''.

SEC. 806. REAUTHORIZATION OF PRIORITY MENTAL HEALTH NEEDS OF REGIONAL 
              AND NATIONAL SIGNIFICANCE.

    Section 520A(f)(1) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
290bb-32(f)(1)) is amended by striking ``$300,000,000 for fiscal year 
2001, and such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 
2002 and 2003'' and inserting ``$370,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2017 through 2021''.

                     TITLE IX--MENTAL HEALTH PARITY

SEC. 901. GAO STUDY ON PREVENTING DISCRIMINATORY COVERAGE LIMITATIONS 
              FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS AND SUBSTANCE 
              USE DISORDERS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with the 
Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the 
Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to Congress a report detailing 
the extent to which covered group health plans (or health insurance 
coverage offered in connection with such plans), including Medicaid 
managed care plans under section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396b), comply with the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental 
Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (subtitle B of title V 
of division C of Public Law 110-343) (in this section referred to as 
the ``law''), including--
            (1) how nonquantitative treatment limitations, including 
        medical necessity criteria, of covered group health plans 
        comply with the law;
            (2) how the responsible Federal departments and agencies 
        ensure that plans comply with the law; and
            (3) how proper enforcement, education, and coordination 
        activities within responsible Federal departments and agencies 
        can be used to ensure full compliance with the law, including 
        educational activities directed to State insurance 
        commissioners.

SEC. 902. REPORT ON INVESTIGATIONS REGARDING PARITY IN MENTAL HEALTH 
              AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Administrator of the Centers 
for Medicare & Medicaid Services, in collaboration with the Assistant 
Secretary of Labor of the Employee Benefits Security Administration and 
the Secretary of the Treasury, and in consultation with the Assistant 
Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, shall submit 
to Congress a report--
            (1) identifying Federal investigations conducted or 
        completed during the preceding 12-month period regarding 
        compliance with parity in mental health and substance use 
        disorder benefits, including benefits provided to persons with 
        serious mental illness and substance use disorders, under the 
        Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and 
        Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (subtitle B of title V of division 
        C of Public Law 110-343); and
            (2) summarizing the results of such investigations.
    (b) Contents.--Subject to subsection (c), each report under 
subsection (a) shall include the following information:
            (1) The number of investigations opened and closed during 
        the covered reporting period.
            (2) The benefit classification or classifications examined 
        by each investigation.
            (3) The subject matter or subject matters of each 
        investigation, including quantitative and nonquantitative 
        treatment limitations.
            (4) A summary of the basis of the final decision rendered 
        for each investigation.
    (c) Limitation.--Individually identifiable information shall be 
excluded from reports under subsection (a) consistent with Federal 
privacy protections.

SEC. 903. STRENGTHENING PARITY IN MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              DISORDER BENEFITS.

    Section 2726(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-
26(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(6) Disclosure and enforcement requirements.--
                    ``(A) Disclosure requirements.--
                            ``(i) Regulations.--Not later than March 1, 
                        2016, the Secretary, in cooperation with the 
                        Secretary of Labor and the Secretary of the 
                        Treasury shall issue additional regulations or 
                        sub-regulatory guidance for carrying out this 
                        section, including an explanation of documents 
                        that are required to be disclosed, and analyses 
                        that are required to be conducted, including 
                        how non-quantitative treatment limitations are 
                        applied to mental health or substance use 
                        disorder benefits and medical or surgical 
                        benefits covered under the plan, by a group 
                        health plan (or health insurance issuer) 
                        offering health insurance coverage in the group 
                        or individual market in order for such plan or 
                        issuer to demonstrate compliance with the 
                        provisions of this section. The disclosure 
                        requirements shall include a report detailing 
                        the specific analyses performed to develop a 
                        compliance review of the requirements of the 
                        Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental Health 
                        Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008, 
                        including the amendments made by such Act. With 
                        respect to non-quantitative treatment 
                        limitations, this report shall--
                                    ``(I) identify the specific factors 
                                used by the plan in performing its non-
                                quantitative treatment limitations 
                                analysis;
                                    ``(II) identify and define the 
                                specific evidentiary standards relied 
                                on to evaluate the factors;
                                    ``(III) describe how the 
                                evidentiary standards were applied to 
                                each service category;
                                    ``(IV) disclose the results of the 
                                analyses of the specific evidentiary 
                                standards in each service category; and
                                    ``(V) disclose the plan's specific 
                                findings in each service category and 
                                the conclusions reached with respect to 
                                compliance with comparability and 
                                stringency of application tests under 
                                the non-quantitative treatment 
                                limitations rule.
                            ``(ii) Guidance.--The Secretary, in 
                        cooperation with the Secretary of Labor and the 
                        Secretary of the Treasury shall issue guidance 
                        to group health plans and health insurance 
                        issuers offering health insurance coverage in 
                        the group or individual markets on how to 
                        satisfy the requirements of this section with 
                        respect to making information, including 
                        certificate of coverage documents and 
                        instruments under which the plan is 
                        administered and operated that specify, 
                        include, or refer to procedures, formulas, and 
                        methodologies applied to determine a 
                        participant or beneficiary's benefit under the 
                        plan, regardless of whether such information is 
                        contained in a document designated as the `plan 
                        document' available to current and potential 
                        participants and beneficiaries. This guidance 
                        shall include plan disclosure of how the plan 
                        has met the 2-part test under the non-
                        quantitative treatment limitations rule of 
                        comparability and stringency in application.
                    ``(B) Enforcement.--
                            ``(i) Process for complaints.--The 
                        Secretary, in cooperation with the Secretary of 
                        Labor and the Secretary of the Treasury, as 
                        appropriate, shall, with respect to group 
                        health plans and health insurance issuers 
                        offering health insurance coverage in the group 
                        or individual market, issue guidance to clarify 
                        the process and timeline for current and 
                        potential participants and beneficiaries and 
                        their authorized representatives and providers 
                        with respect to such plans and coverage to file 
                        formal complaints of such plans or issuers 
                        being in violation of this section, including 
                        guidance on the relevant individual State, 
                        regional, and national offices with which such 
                        claims should be filed by plan type.
                            ``(ii) Authority for public enforcement.--
                        The Secretary shall make available to the 
                        public de-identified information on audits and 
                        investigations of group health plans and health 
                        insurance issuers conducted under this section.
                            ``(iii) Audits.--
                                    ``(I) Randomized audits.--The 
                                Secretary is authorized to conduct 
                                randomized audits of group health plans 
                                and health insurance issuers offering 
                                health insurance coverage in the group 
                                or individual market to determine 
                                compliance with this section. Such 
                                audits shall be conducted on no fewer 
                                than 12 plans and issuers per plan 
                                year. The information shall be made 
                                plainly available on the public 
                                Internet websites of the Department of 
                                Health and Human Services and the 
                                Department of Labor.
                                    ``(II) Additional audits.--In the 
                                case of a group health plan or health 
                                insurance issuer offering health 
                                insurance coverage in the group or 
                                individual market with respect to which 
                                at least 5 substantiated claims of the 
                                same type of non-compliance with this 
                                section have been filed during a plan 
                                year, the Secretary shall audit plan 
                                documents to determine compliance with 
                                this section. Information detailing the 
                                results of the audit shall be made 
                                available on the public Internet 
                                website of the Department of Health and 
                                Human Services.''.
                                 <all>
