[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2646 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 2646

  To make available needed psychiatric, psychological, and supportive 
  services for individuals with mental illness and families in mental 
                 health crisis, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              June 4, 2015

 Mr. Murphy of Pennsylvania (for himself, Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of 
  Texas, Mr. Buchanan, Mr. Diaz-Balart, Mr. Bilirakis, Mr. Dold, Mr. 
   Guinta, Mrs. Mimi Walters of California, Mr. Brendan F. Boyle of 
 Pennsylvania, Mrs. Ellmers of North Carolina, Mr. Denham, Mr. Vargas, 
  Mrs. Miller of Michigan, Mr. Hastings, Mr. Calvert, Mr. Nunes, Mr. 
Hunter, Mr. Blumenauer, and Ms. Sinema) introduced the following bill; 
  which was referred to the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and in 
  addition to the Committees on Ways and Means and Education and the 
 Workforce, for a period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, 
 in each case for consideration of such provisions as fall within the 
                jurisdiction of the committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To make available needed psychiatric, psychological, and supportive 
  services for individuals with mental illness and families in mental 
                 health crisis, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Helping Families 
in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
   TITLE I--ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
                               DISORDERS

Sec. 101. Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use 
                            Disorders.
Sec. 102. Transfer of SAMHSA authorities.
Sec. 103. Reports.
Sec. 104. Advisory Council on Graduate Medical Education.
                TITLE II--GRANT REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING

Sec. 201. National mental health policy laboratory.
Sec. 202. Innovation grants.
Sec. 203. Demonstration grants.
Sec. 204. Early childhood intervention and treatment.
Sec. 205. Extension of assisted outpatient treatment grant program for 
                            individuals with serious mental illness.
Sec. 206. Block grants.
Sec. 207. Workforce development.
Sec. 208. Authorized grants and programs.
  TITLE III--INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE

Sec. 301. Interagency Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee.
                  TITLE IV--HIPAA AND FERPA CAREGIVERS

Sec. 401. Promoting appropriate treatment for mentally ill individuals 
                            by treating their caregivers as personal 
                            representatives for purposes of HIPAA 
                            privacy regulations.
Sec. 402. Caregivers permitted access to certain education records 
                            under FERPA.
Sec. 403. Confidentiality of records.
                 TITLE V--MEDICARE AND MEDICAID REFORMS

Sec. 501. Enhanced Medicaid coverage relating to certain mental health 
                            services.
Sec. 502. Access to mental health prescription drugs under Medicare and 
                            Medicaid.
Sec. 503. Elimination of 190-day lifetime limit on coverage of 
                            inpatient psychiatric hospital services 
                            under Medicare.
Sec. 504. Modifications to Medicare discharge planning requirements.
Sec. 505. Demonstration programs to improve community mental health 
                            services.
       TITLE VI--RESEARCH BY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH

Sec. 601. Increase in funding for certain research.
          TITLE VII--BEHAVIORAL HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

Sec. 701. Extension of health information technology assistance for 
                            behavioral and mental health and substance 
                            abuse.
Sec. 702. Extension of eligibility for Medicare and Medicaid health 
                            information technology implementation 
                            assistance.
             TITLE VIII--SAMHSA REAUTHORIZATION AND REFORMS

            Subtitle A--Organization and General Authorities

Sec. 801. In general.
Sec. 802. Advisory councils.
Sec. 803. Peer review.
Subtitle B--Protection and Advocacy for Individuals With Mental Illness

Sec. 811. Prohibition against lobbying by systems accepting Federal 
                            funds to protect and advocate the rights of 
                            individuals with mental illness.
Sec. 812. Ensuring that caregivers of individuals with serious mental 
                            illness have access to the protected health 
                            information of such individuals.
Sec. 813. Protection and advocacy activities to focus exclusively on 
                            safeguarding rights to be free from abuse 
                            and neglect.
Sec. 814. Reporting.
Sec. 815. Grievance procedure.
Sec. 816. Evidence-based treatment for individuals with serious mental 
                            illness.
                          TITLE IX--REPORTING

Sec. 901. GAO study on preventing discriminatory coverage limitations 
                            for individuals with serious mental illness 
                            and substance use disorders.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Except as inconsistent with the provisions of this Act, 
        the term ``Assistant Secretary'' means the Assistant Secretary 
        for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders.
            (2) The term ``evidence-based'' means the conscientious, 
        systematic, explicit, and judicious appraisal and use of 
        external, current, reliable, and valid research findings as the 
        basis for making decisions about the effectiveness and efficacy 
        of a program, intervention, or treatment.

   TITLE I--ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
                               DISORDERS

SEC. 101. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              DISORDERS.

    (a) In General.--There shall be in the Department of Health and 
Human Services an official to be known as the Assistant Secretary for 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, who shall--
            (1) report directly to the Secretary;
            (2) be appointed by the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate; and
            (3) be selected from among individuals who--
                    (A)(i) have a doctoral degree in medicine or 
                osteopathic medicine and clinical and research 
                experience in psychiatry;
                    (ii) graduated from an Accreditation Council for 
                Graduate Medical Education-accredited psychiatric 
                residency program; and
                    (iii) have an understanding of biological, 
                psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of mental 
                illness and substance use disorders; or
                    (B) have a doctoral degree in psychology with--
                            (i) clinical and research experience 
                        regarding mental illness and substance use 
                        disorders; and
                            (ii) an understanding of biological, 
                        psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of 
                        mental illness and substance use disorders.
    (b) Duties.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            (1) promote, evaluate, organize, integrate, and coordinate 
        research, treatment, and services across departments, agencies, 
        organizations, and individuals with respect to the problems of 
        individuals suffering from substance use disorders or mental 
        illness;
            (2) carry out any functions within the Department of Health 
        and Human Services--
                    (A) to improve the treatment of, and related 
                services to, individuals with respect to substance use 
                disorders or mental illness;
                    (B) to improve secondary prevention or tertiary 
                prevention services for such individuals;
                    (C) to ensure access to effective, evidence-based 
                treatment for individuals with mental illnesses and 
                individuals with a substance use disorder;
                    (D) to ensure that grant programs of the Department 
                adhere to scientific standards with an emphasis on 
                secondary prevention and tertiary prevention for 
                individuals with serious mental illness or substance 
                use disorders; and
                    (E) to develop and implement initiatives to 
                encourage individuals to pursue careers (especially in 
                underserved areas and populations) as psychiatrists, 
                psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, 
                clinical social workers, and other licensed mental 
                health professionals specializing in the diagnosis, 
                evaluation, and treatment of individuals with severe 
                mental illness, including individuals--
                            (i) who are vulnerable to crises, psychotic 
                        episodes, or suicidal rumination;
                            (ii) whose deterioration can be rapid; or
                            (iii) who require more frequent contact or 
                        integration of a variety of services by the 
                        treating mental health professional;
            (3) carry out the administrative and financial management, 
        policy development and planning, evaluation, knowledge 
        dissemination, and public information functions that are 
        required for the implementation of mental health programs, 
        including block grants, treatments, and data collection;
            (4) conduct and coordinate demonstration projects, 
        evaluations, and service system assessments and other 
        activities necessary to improve the availability and quality of 
        treatment, prevention, and related services related to 
        substance use disorders and mental illness;
            (5) within the Department of Health and Human Services, 
        oversee and coordinate all programs and activities relating 
        to--
                    (A) the prevention of, or treatment or 
                rehabilitation for, mental health or substance use 
                disorders;
                    (B) parity in health insurance benefits and 
                conditions relating to mental health and substance use 
                disorder; or
                    (C) the reduction of homelessness among individuals 
                with mental illness;
            (6) across the Federal Government, in conjunction with the 
        Interagency Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee under 
        section 501A--
                    (A) review all programs and activities relating to 
                the prevention of, or treatment or rehabilitation for, 
                mental illness or substance use disorders;
                    (B) identify any such programs and activities that 
                are duplicative;
                    (C) identify any such programs and activities that 
                are not evidence-based, effective, or efficient; and
                    (D) formulate recommendations for expanding, 
                coordinating, eliminating, and improving programs and 
                activities identified pursuant to subparagraph (B) or 
                (C) and merging such programs and activities into 
                other, successful programs and activities;
            (7) identify evidence-based best practices across the 
        Federal Government for treatment and services for those with 
        mental health and substance use disorders by reviewing 
        practices for efficiency, effectiveness, quality, coordination, 
        and cost effectiveness;
            (8) be the head of and supervise the National Mental Health 
        Policy Laboratory; and
            (9) not later than one year after the date of enactment of 
        the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015, 
        submit to the Congress a report containing a nationwide 
        strategy to increase the psychiatric workforce and recruit 
        medical professionals for the treatment of individuals with 
        serious mental illness and substance use disorders.
    (c) Nationwide Strategy.--The Assistant Secretary shall ensure that 
the nationwide strategy in the report under subsection (b)(9) is 
designed--
            (1) to encourage and incentivize students enrolled in an 
        accredited medical or osteopathic medical school to enter the 
        specialty of psychiatry;
            (2) to promote greater research-oriented psychiatrist 
        residency training on evidence-based service delivery models 
        for individuals with serious mental illness or substance use 
        disorders;
            (3) to promote appropriate Federal administrative and 
        fiscal mechanisms that support--
                    (A) evidence-based collaborative care models; and
                    (B) the necessary psychiatric workforce capacity 
                for these models, including psychiatrists (including 
                child and adolescent psychiatrists), psychologists, 
                psychiatric nurse practitioners, clinical social 
                workers, and mental health, peer-support specialists;
            (4) to increase access to child and adolescent psychiatric 
        services in order to promote early intervention for prevention 
        and mitigation of mental illness; and
            (5) to identify populations and locations that are the most 
        underserved by mental health professionals and the most in need 
        of psychiatrists (including child and adolescent 
        psychiatrists), psychologists, psychiatric nurse practitioners, 
        clinical social workers, and mental health, peer-support 
        specialists.
    (d) Prioritization of Integration of Services, Early Diagnosis, 
Intervention, and Workforce Development.--In carrying out the duties 
described in subsection (b), the Assistant Secretary shall prioritize--
            (1) the integration of mental health, substance use, and 
        physical health services for the purpose of diagnosing, 
        preventing, treating, or providing rehabilitation for mental 
        illness or substance use disorders, including any such services 
        provided through the justice system (including departments of 
        correction) or other entities other than the Department of 
        Health and Human Services;
            (2) crisis intervention for, early diagnosis and 
        intervention services for the prevention of, and treatment and 
        rehabilitation for, serious mental illness or substance use 
        disorders; and
            (3) workforce development for--
                    (A) appropriate treatment of serious mental illness 
                or substance use disorders; and
                    (B) research activities that advance scientific and 
                clinical understandings of these disorders, including 
                the development and implementation of a continuing 
                nationwide strategy to increase the psychiatric 
                workforce with psychiatrists, child and adolescent 
                psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nurse 
                practitioners, clinical social workers, and mental 
                health peer support specialists.
    (e) Requirements and Restrictions on Authority To Award Grants.--In 
awarding any grant or financial assistance, the Assistant Secretary, 
and any agency or official within the Office of the Assistant 
Secretary, shall comply with the following:
            (1) The grant or financial assistance shall be for 
        activities consisting of, or based upon, applied scientific 
        research.
            (2) Any program to be funded shall be demonstrated--
                    (A) in the case of an ongoing program, to be 
                effective; and
                    (B) in the case of a new program, to have the 
                prospect of being effective.
            (3) The programs and activities to be funded shall use 
        evidence-based best practices or emerging evidence-based best 
        practices that are translational and can be expanded or 
        replicated to other States, local communities, agencies, or 
        through the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social 
        Security Act.
            (4) An application for the grant or financial assistance 
        shall include, as applicable, a scientific justification based 
        on previously demonstrated models, the number of individuals to 
        be served, the population to be targeted, what objective 
        outcomes measures will be used, and details on how the program 
        or activity to be funded can be replicated and by whom.
            (5) Applicants shall be evaluated and selected through a 
        blind, peer-review process by expert mental health care 
        providers with professional experience in mental health 
        research or treatment and where appropriate or necessary 
        professional experience related to substance abuse and other 
        areas of expertise appropriate to the grant or other financial 
        assistance.
            (6) No member of a peer-review group conducting a blind, 
        peer-review process, as required by paragraph (5), may be 
        related to anyone who may be applying for the type of award 
        being reviewed, may be a current grant applicant, or may have a 
        financial or employment interested in selecting whom to receive 
        the award.
            (7) Award recipients may be periodically reviewed and 
        audited at the discretion of the Inspector General of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services or the Comptroller 
        General of the United States to ensure that--
                    (A) the best scientific method for both services 
                and data collection is being followed; and
                    (B) Federal funds are being used as required by the 
                conditions of the award and by applicable guidelines of 
                the NMHPL.
            (8) Award recipients that fail an audit or fail to provide 
        information pursuant to an audit shall have their awards 
        terminated.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``secondary prevention'' means prevention that 
        is designed to prevent a disease or condition from occurring 
        among individuals or a subpopulation determined to be at risk 
        for the disease or condition.
            (2) The term ``tertiary prevention'' means prevention that 
        is designed to reduce or minimize the consequences of a disease 
        or condition among individuals showing symptoms of the disease 
        or condition.

SEC. 102. TRANSFER OF SAMHSA AUTHORITIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
delegate to the Assistant Secretary all duties and authorities that--
            (1) as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        were vested in the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and 
        Mental Health Services Administration; and
            (2) are not terminated by this Act.
    (b) Transition.--This section and the amendments made by this 
section apply beginning on the day that is 6 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act. As of such day, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall provide for the transfer of the personnel, assets, 
and obligations of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services 
Administration to the Office of the Assistant Secretary.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Title V of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in the title heading, by striking ``SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND 
        MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES ADMINISTRATION'' and inserting ``MENTAL 
        HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS'';
            (2) by amending section 501(a) to read as follows:
    ``(a) Assistant Secretary.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental 
Health and Substance Use Disorders shall have the duties and 
authorities vested in the Assistant Secretary by this title in addition 
to the duties and authorities vested in the Assistant Secretary by 
section 501 of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015 
and other provisions of law.'';
            (3) by amending section 501(c) to read as follows:
    ``(c) Deputy Assistant Secretary.--The Assistant Secretary, with 
the approval of the Secretary, may appoint a Deputy Assistant Secretary 
and may employ and prescribe the functions of such officers and 
employees, including attorneys, as are necessary to administer the 
activities to be carried out under this title.'';
            (4) by striking subsection (o) (relating to authorization 
        of appropriations);
            (5) by striking ``Administrator of the Substance Abuse and 
        Mental Health Services Administration'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
        Substance Use Disorders'';
            (6) by striking ``Administrator'' each place it appears and 
        inserting ``Assistant Secretary'', except where the term 
        ``Administrator'' appears within the term--
                    (A) Associate Administrator;
                    (B) Administrator of the Health Resources and 
                Services Administration;
                    (C) Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & 
                Medicaid Services; or
                    (D) Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice 
                and Delinquency Prevention;
            (7) by striking ``Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
        Services Administration'' each place it appears and inserting 
        ``Office of the Assistant Secretary'';
            (8) in section 502, by striking ``Administration or 
        Center'' each place it appears and inserting ``Office or 
        Center'';
            (9) in section 502, by striking ``Administration's'' and 
        inserting ``Office of the Assistant Secretary's''; and
            (10) by striking the term ``Administration'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Office of the Assistant Secretary'', 
        except in the heading of section 520G(b) and where the term 
        ``Administration'' appears with the term--
                    (A) Health Resources and Services Administration; 
                or
                    (B) National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.
    (d) References.--After executing subsection (a), subsection (b), 
and the amendments made by subsection (c)--
            (1) any reference in statute, regulation, or guidance to 
        the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health 
        Services Administration shall be construed to be a reference to 
        the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use 
        Disorders; and
            (2) any reference in statute, regulation, or guidance to 
        the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 
        shall be construed to be a reference to the Office of the 
        Assistant Secretary.

SEC. 103. REPORTS.

    (a) Report on Investigations Regarding Parity in Mental Health and 
Substance Use Disorder Benefits.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the 
        enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the 
        Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, 
        in collaboration with the Assistant Secretary of Labor of the 
        Employee Benefits Security Administration and the Secretary of 
        the Treasury, and in consultation with the Assistant Secretary 
        for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, shall submit to 
        the Congress a report--
                    (A) identifying Federal investigations conducted or 
                completed during the preceding 12-month period 
                regarding compliance with parity in mental health and 
                substance use disorder benefits, including benefits 
                provided to persons with serious mental illness and 
                substance use disorders, under the Paul Wellstone and 
                Pete Domenici Mental Health Parity and Addiction Equity 
                Act of 2008 (subtitle B of title V of division C of 
                Public Law 110-343); and
                    (B) summarizing the results of such investigations.
            (2) Contents.--Subject to paragraph (3), each report under 
        paragraph (1) shall include the following information:
                    (A) The number of investigations opened and closed 
                during the covered reporting period.
                    (B) The benefit classification or classifications 
                examined by each investigation.
                    (C) The subject matter or subject matters of each 
                investigation, including quantitative and 
                nonquantitative treatment limitations.
                    (D) A summary of the basis of the final decision 
                rendered for each investigation.
            (3) Limitation.--Individually identifiable information 
        shall be excluded from reports under paragraph (1) consistent 
        with Federal privacy protections.
    (b) Report on Best Practices for Peer-Support Specialist Programs, 
Training, and Certification.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and biannually thereafter, the Assistant 
        Secretary shall submit to the Congress and make publicly 
        available a report on best practices and professional standards 
        in States for--
                    (A) establishing and operating health care programs 
                using peer-support specialists; and
                    (B) training and certifying peer-support 
                specialists.
            (2) Peer-support specialist defined.--In this subsection, 
        the term ``peer-support specialist'' means an individual who--
                    (A) uses his or her lived experience of recovery 
                from mental illness or substance abuse, plus skills 
                learned in formal training, to facilitate support 
                groups, and to work on a one-on-one basis, with 
                individuals with a serious mental illness or a 
                substance use disorder, in consultation with and under 
                the supervision of a licensed mental health or 
                substance use treatment professional;
                    (B) has been an active participant in mental health 
                or substance use treatment for at least the preceding 2 
                years;
                    (C) does not provide direct medical services; and
                    (D) does not perform services outside of his or her 
                area of training, expertise, competence, or scope of 
                practice.
            (3) Contents.--Each report under this subsection shall 
        include information on best practices and standards with regard 
        to the following:
                    (A) Hours of formal work or volunteer experience 
                related to mental health and substance use issues.
                    (B) Types of peer specialist exams required.
                    (C) Code of ethics.
                    (D) Additional training required prior to 
                certification, including in areas such as--
                            (i) psychopharmacology;
                            (ii) integrating physical medicine and 
                        mental health supportive services;
                            (iii) ethics;
                            (iv) scope of practice;
                            (v) crisis intervention;
                            (vi) identification and treatment of mental 
                        health disorders;
                            (vii) State confidentiality laws;
                            (viii) Federal privacy protections, 
                        including under the Health Insurance 
                        Portability and Accountability Act of 1996; and
                            (ix) other areas as determined by the 
                        Assistant Secretary.
                    (E) Requirements to explain what, where, when, and 
                how to accurately complete all required documentation 
                activities.
                    (F) Required or recommended skill sets, including--
                            (i) identifying consumer risk indicators, 
                        including individual stressors, triggers, and 
                        indicators of escalating symptoms;
                            (ii) explaining basic de-escalation 
                        techniques;
                            (iii) explaining basic suicide prevention 
                        concepts and techniques;
                            (iv) identifying indicators that the 
                        consumer may be experiencing abuse or neglect;
                            (v) identifying and responding 
                        appropriately to personal stressors, triggers, 
                        and indicators;
                            (vi) identifying the consumer's current 
                        stage of change or recovery;
                            (vii) explaining the typical process that 
                        should be followed to access or participate in 
                        community mental health and related services; 
                        and
                            (viii) identifying circumstances when it is 
                        appropriate to request assistance from other 
                        professionals to help meet the consumer's 
                        recovery goals.
                    (G) Requirements for continuing education credits 
                annually.
    (c) Report on the State of the States in Mental Health and 
Substance Use Treatment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, and not less than every 2 years 
        thereafter, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the 
        Congress and make available to the public a report on the state 
        of the States in mental health and substance use treatment, 
        including the following:
                    (A) A detailed report on how Federal mental health 
                and substance use treatment funds are used in each 
                State including:
                            (i) The numbers of individuals with serious 
                        mental illness or substance use disorders who 
                        are served with Federal funds.
                            (ii) The types of programs made available 
                        to individuals with serious mental illness or 
                        substance use disorders.
                    (B) A summary of best practice models in the States 
                highlighting programs that are cost effective, provide 
                evidence-based care, increase access to care, integrate 
                physical, psychiatric, psychological, and behavioral 
                medicine, and improve outcomes for individuals with 
                mental illness or substance use disorders.
                    (C) A statistical report of outcome measures in 
                each State, including--
                            (i) rates of suicide, suicide attempts, 
                        substance abuse, overdose, overdose deaths, 
                        emergency psychiatric hospitalizations, and 
                        emergency room boarding; and
                            (ii) for those with mental illness, 
                        arrests, incarcerations, victimization, 
                        homelessness, joblessness, employment, and 
                        enrollment in educational or vocational 
                        programs.
                    (D) Outcome measures on State-assisted outpatient 
                treatment programs, including--
                            (i) rates of keeping treatment appointments 
                        and compliance with prescribed medications;
                            (ii) participants' perceived effectiveness 
                        of the program;
                            (iii) rates of the programs helping those 
                        with serious mental illness gain control over 
                        their lives;
                            (iv) alcohol and drug abuse rates;
                            (v) incarceration and arrest rates;
                            (vi) violence against persons or property;
                            (vii) homelessness; and
                            (viii) total treatment costs for compliance 
                        with the program.
                    (E) State and counties with assisted outpatient 
                treatment programs.--For States and counties with 
                assisted outpatient treatment programs, the information 
                reported under this subsection shall include a 
                comparison of the outcomes of individuals with serious 
                mental illness who participated in the programs versus 
                the outcomes of individuals who did not participate but 
                were eligible to do so by nature of their history.
                    (F) States and counties without aot programs.--For 
                States and counties without assisted outpatient 
                treatment programs, the information reported under this 
                subsection shall include data on individuals with 
                mental illness who--
                            (i) have a history of violence, 
                        incarceration, and arrests;
                            (ii) have a history of emergency 
                        psychiatric hospitalizations;
                            (iii) are substantially unlikely to 
                        participate in treatment on their own;
                            (iv) may be unable for reasons other than 
                        indigence, to provide for any of their basic 
                        needs such as food, clothing, shelter, health 
                        or safety;
                            (v) have a history of mental illness or 
                        condition that is likely to substantially 
                        deteriorate if the individual is not provided 
                        with timely treatment; and
                            (vi) due to their mental illness, have a 
                        lack of capacity to fully understand or lack 
                        judgment, or diminished capacity to make 
                        informed decisions, regarding their need for 
                        treatment, care, or supervision.
            (2) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``emergency 
        room boarding'' means the practice of admitting patients to an 
        emergency department and holding them in the department until 
        inpatient psychiatric beds become available.
    (d) Reporting Compliance Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health 
        and Substance Use Disorders shall enter into an arrangement 
        with the Institute of Medicine of the National Academies (or, 
        if the Institute declines, another appropriate entity) under 
        which, not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, the Institute will submit to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress a report that evaluates the combined 
        paperwork burden of--
                    (A) community mental health centers meeting the 
                criteria specified in section 1913(c) of the Public 
                Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-2), including such 
                centers meeting such criteria as in effect on the day 
                before the date of enactment of this Act; and
                    (B) federally qualified community mental health 
                clinics certified pursuant to section 223 of the 
                Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (Public Law 
                113-93), as amended by section 505.
            (2) Scope.--In preparing the report under subsection (a), 
        the Institute of Medicine (or, if applicable, other appropriate 
        entity) shall examine licensing, certification, service 
        definitions, claims payment, billing codes, and financial 
        auditing requirements used by the Office of Management and 
        Budget, the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, the 
        Health Resources and Services Administration, the Substance 
        Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, the Office of 
        the Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human 
        Services, State Medicaid agencies, State departments of health, 
        State departments of education, and State and local juvenile 
        justice and social service agencies to--
                    (A) establish an estimate of the combined 
                nationwide cost of complying with such requirements, in 
                terms of both administrative funding and staff time;
                    (B) establish an estimate of the per capita cost to 
                each center or clinic described in subparagraph (A) or 
                (B) of paragraph (1) to comply with such requirements, 
                in terms of both administrative funding and staff time; 
                and
                    (C) make administrative and statutory 
                recommendations to Congress (which recommendations may 
                include a uniform methodology) to reduce the paperwork 
                burden experienced by centers and clinics described in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1).

SEC. 104. ADVISORY COUNCIL ON GRADUATE MEDICAL EDUCATION.

    Section 762(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 294o(b)) 
is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
        Substance Use Disorders;''.

                TITLE II--GRANT REFORM AND RESTRUCTURING

SEC. 201. NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH POLICY LABORATORY.

    (a) In General.--
            (1) Establishment.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental 
        Health and Substance Use Disorders shall establish, within the 
        Office of the Assistant Secretary, the National Mental Health 
        Policy Laboratory (in this section referred to as the 
        ``NMHPL''), to be headed by a Director.
            (2) Duties.--The Director of the NMHPL shall--
                    (A) identify, coordinate, and implement policy 
                changes and other trends likely to have the most 
                significant impact on mental health services and 
                monitor their impact;
                    (B) collect information from grantees under 
                programs established or amended by this Act and under 
                other mental health programs under the Public Health 
                Service Act, including grantees that are States 
                receiving funds under a block grant under part B of 
                title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
                300x et seq.);
                    (C) evaluate and disseminate to such grantees 
                evidence-based practices and services delivery models 
                using the best available science shown to be cost-
                effective while enhancing the quality of care furnished 
                to individuals;
                    (D) establish standards for the appointment of 
                scientific peer-review panels to evaluate grant 
                applications; and
                    (E) establish standards for grant programs under 
                subsection (b).
            (3) Evidence-based practices and service delivery models.--
        In selecting evidence-based best practices and service delivery 
        models for evaluation and dissemination under paragraph (2)(C), 
        the Director of the NMHPL--
                    (A) shall give preference to models that improve--
                            (i) the coordination between mental health 
                        and physical health providers;
                            (ii) the coordination among such providers 
                        and the justice and corrections system; and
                            (iii) the cost effectiveness, quality, 
                        effectiveness, and efficiency of health care 
                        services furnished to individuals with serious 
                        mental illness, in mental health crisis, or at 
                        risk to themselves, their families, and the 
                        general public; and
                    (B) may include clinical protocols and practices 
                used in the Recovery After Initial Schizophrenia 
                Episode (RAISE) project and the North American Prodrome 
                Longitudinal Study (NAPLS) of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health.
            (4) Deadline for beginning implementation.--The Director of 
        the NMHPL shall begin implementation of the duties described in 
        this subsection not later than January 1, 2018.
            (5) Consultation.--In carrying out the duties under this 
        subsection, the Director of the NMHPL shall consult with--
                    (A) representatives of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health on organization, hiring decisions, and 
                operations, initially and on an ongoing basis;
                    (B) other appropriate Federal agencies;
                    (C) clinical and analytical experts with expertise 
                in medicine, psychiatric and clinical psychological 
                care, health care management, education, corrections 
                health care, and mental health court systems; and
                    (D) other individuals and agencies as determined 
                appropriate by the Assistant Secretary.
    (b) Standards for Grant Programs.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the NMHPL shall set 
        standards for grant programs administered by the Assistant 
        Secretary, and the Assistant Secretary shall comply with such 
        standards, including standards for--
                    (A) the extent to which the grantee must have the 
                capacity to implement the award;
                    (B) the extent to which the grant plan submitted by 
                the grantee as part of its application must explain how 
                the grantee will help to provide comprehensive 
                community mental health or substance use services to 
                adults with serious mental illness and children with 
                serious emotional disturbances;
                    (C) the extent to which the grantee must identify 
                priorities, as well as strategies and performance 
                indicators to address those priorities for the duration 
                of the grant;
                    (D) the extent to which the grantee must submit 
                statements on the extent to which the grantee is 
                meeting annual program priorities with quantifiable, 
                objective, and scientific targets, measures, and 
                outcomes;
                    (E) the extent to which grantees are expected to 
                collaborate with other child-serving systems such as 
                child welfare, education, juvenile justice, and primary 
                care systems;
                    (F) the extent to which the grantee must collect 
                and report data;
                    (G) the extent to which the grantee must use 
                evidence-based practices and the extent to which those 
                evidence-based practices must be used with respect to a 
                population similar to the population for which the 
                evidence-based practices were shown to be effective; 
                and
                    (H) the extent to which a grantee, when possible, 
                must have a control group.
            (2) Public disclosure of results.--The Director of the 
        NMHPL--
                    (A) shall make the standards under paragraph (1), 
                and the Director's findings on compliance by the 
                Assistant Secretary and grantees with such standards, 
                available to the public in a timely fashion; and
                    (B) may establish requirements for States and other 
                entities receiving funds through grants under programs 
                established or amended by this Act and under other 
                mental health programs under the Public Health Service 
                Act, including under a block grant under part B of 
                title XIX of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
                300x et seq.), to collect information on evidence-based 
                best practices and services delivery models selected 
                under section 101(c)(2), as the Assistant Secretary 
                determines necessary to monitor and evaluate such 
                models.
    (c) Staffing.--
            (1) Composition.--In selecting the staff of the NMHPL, the 
        Director of the NMHPL, in consultation with the Director of the 
        National Institute of Mental Health, shall ensure the 
        following:
                    (A) At least 20 percent of the staff shall--
                            (i) have a doctoral degree in medicine or 
                        osteopathic medicine and clinical and research 
                        experience in psychiatry;
                            (ii) have graduated from an Accreditation 
                        Council for Graduate Medical Education-
                        accredited psychiatric residency program; and
                            (iii) have an understanding of biological, 
                        psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of 
                        mental illness and substance use disorders.
                    (B) At least 20 percent of the staff shall have a 
                doctoral degree in psychology with--
                            (i) clinical and research experience 
                        regarding mental illness and substance use 
                        disorders; and
                            (ii) an understanding of biological, 
                        psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of 
                        mental illness and substance use disorders.
                    (C) At least 20 percent of the staff shall be 
                professionals or academics with clinical or research 
                expertise in substance use disorders and treatment.
                    (D) At least 20 percent of the staff shall be 
                professionals or academics with expertise in research 
                design and methodologies.
            (2) Congressional appointments.--At least 20 percent, or 
        two, whichever is greater, of the members of the staff of the 
        NMHPL shall be appointed by Congress.
    (d) Report on Quality of Care.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the 
Director of the NMHPL shall submit to the Congress a report on the 
quality of care furnished through grant programs administered by the 
Assistant Secretary under the respective services delivery models, 
including measurement of patient-level outcomes and public health 
outcomes such as--
            (1) reduced rates of suicide, suicide attempts, substance 
        abuse, overdose, overdose deaths, emergency psychiatric 
        hospitalizations, emergency room boarding, incarceration, 
        crime, arrest, victimization, homelessness, and joblessness;
            (2) rates of employment and enrollment in educational and 
        vocational programs; and
            (3) such other criteria as the Director may determine.
    (e) Definition.--In this section, the term ``emergency room 
boarding'' means the practice of admitting patients to an emergency 
department and holding them in the department until inpatient 
psychiatric beds become available.

SEC. 202. INNOVATION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to 
State and local governments, educational institutions, and nonprofit 
organizations for expanding a model that has been scientifically 
demonstrated to show promise, but would benefit from further applied 
research, for--
            (1) enhancing the screening, diagnosis, and treatment of 
        mental illness and serious mental illness; or
            (2) integrating or coordinating physical, mental health, 
        and substance use services.
    (b) Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a period of 
not more than 2 years.
    (c) Limitations.--Of the amounts made available for carrying out 
this section for a fiscal year--
            (1) not more than one-third shall be awarded for use for 
        primary prevention; and
            (2) not less than one-third shall be awarded for screening, 
        diagnosis, treatment, or services, as described in subsection 
        (a), for individuals (or subpopulations of individuals) who are 
        below the age of 18 when activities funded through the grant 
        award are initiated.
    (d) Guidelines.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree to adhere to guidelines issued by the 
National Mental Health Policy Laboratory on research designs and data 
collection.
    (e) Termination.--The Assistant Secretary may terminate any award 
under this section upon a determination that--
            (1) the recipient is not providing information requested by 
        the National Mental Health Policy Laboratory or the Assistant 
        Secretary in connection with the award; or
            (2) there is a clear failure in the effectiveness of the 
        recipient's programs or activities funded through the award.
    (f) Reporting.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree--
            (1) to report to the National Mental Health Policy 
        Laboratory and the Assistant Secretary the results of programs 
        and activities funded through the award; and
            (2) to include in such reporting any relevant data 
        requested by the National Mental Health Policy Laboratory and 
        the Assistant Secretary.
    (g) Definition.--In this section, the term ``primary prevention'' 
means prevention that is designed to prevent a disease or condition 
from occurring among the general population without regard to 
identifying the presence of risk factors or symptoms in the population.
    (h) Funding.--Of the amounts made available to carry out sections 
501, 509, 516, and 520A of the Public Health Service Act for a fiscal 
year, 5 percent of such amounts are authorized to be used to carry out 
this section.

SEC. 203. DEMONSTRATION GRANTS.

    (a) Grants.--The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to States, 
counties, local governments, educational institutions, and private 
nonprofit organizations for the expansion, replication, or scaling of 
evidence-based programs across a wider area to enhance effective 
screening, early diagnosis, intervention, and treatment with respect to 
mental illness and serious mental illness, primarily by--
            (1) applied delivery of care, including training staff in 
        effective evidence-based treatment; and
            (2) integrating models of care across specialties and 
        jurisdictions.
    (b) Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a period of 
not less than 2 years and not more than 5 years.
    (c) Limitations.--Of the amounts made available for carrying out 
this section for a fiscal year--
            (1) not less than half shall be awarded for screening, 
        diagnosis, intervention, and treatment, as described in 
        subsection (a), for individuals (or subpopulations of 
        individuals) who are below the age of 26 when activities funded 
        through the grant award are initiated;
            (2) no amounts shall be made available for any program or 
        project that is not evidence-based;
            (3) no amounts shall be made available for primary 
        prevention; and
            (4) no amounts shall be made available solely for the 
        purpose of expanding facilities or increasing staff at an 
        existing program.
    (d) Guidelines.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree to adhere to guidelines issued by the 
National Mental Health Policy Laboratory on research designs and data 
collection.
    (e) Termination.--The Assistant Secretary may terminate any award 
under this section upon a determination that--
            (1) the recipient is not providing information requested by 
        the National Mental Health Policy Laboratory or the Assistant 
        Secretary in connection with the award; or
            (2) there is a clear failure in the effectiveness of the 
        recipient's programs or activities funded through the award.
    (f) Reporting.--As a condition on receipt of an award under this 
section, an applicant shall agree--
            (1) to report to the National Mental Health Policy 
        Laboratory and the Assistant Secretary the results of programs 
        and activities funded through the award; and
            (2) to include in such reporting any relevant data 
        requested by the National Mental Health Policy Laboratory and 
        the Assistant Secretary.
    (g) Funding.--Of the amounts made available to carry out sections 
501, 509, 516, and 520A of the Public Health Service Act for a fiscal 
year, 10 percent of such amounts are authorized to be used to carry out 
this section.

SEC. 204. EARLY CHILDHOOD INTERVENTION AND TREATMENT.

    (a) Grants.--The Director of the National Mental Health Policy 
Laboratory (in this section referred to as the ``NMHPL'') shall award--
            (1) grants to eligible entities to initiate and undertake, 
        for eligible children, early childhood intervention and 
        treatment programs, and specialized preschool and elementary 
        school programs, with the goal of preventing chronic and 
        serious mental illness;
            (2) grants to not more than 3 eligible entities for 
        studying the longitudinal outcomes of programs funded under 
        paragraph (1) on eligible children who were treated 5 or more 
        years prior to the enactment of this Act; and
            (3) ensure that programs and activities funded through 
        grants under this subsection are based on a sound scientific 
        model that shows evidence and promise and can be replicated in 
        other settings.
    (b) Eligible Entities and Children.--In this section:
            (1) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity'' means a 
        nonprofit institution that--
                    (A) is duly accredited by State mental health and 
                education agencies, as applicable, for the treatment 
                and education of children from 1 to 10 years of age; 
                and
                    (B) provides services that include early childhood 
                intervention and specialized preschool and elementary 
                school programs focused on children whose primary need 
                is a social or emotional disability (in addition to any 
                learning disability).
            (2) Eligible child.--The term ``eligible child'' means a 
        child who is at least 0 years old and not more than 12 years 
        old--
                    (A) whose primary need is a social and emotional 
                disability (in addition to any learning disability);
                    (B) who is at risk of developing serious mental 
                illness and/or may show early signs of mental illness; 
                and
                    (C) who could benefit from early childhood 
                intervention and specialized preschool or elementary 
                school programs with the goal of preventing or treating 
                chronic and serious mental illness.
    (c) Application.--An eligible entity seeking a grant under 
subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary an application at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may require.
    (d) Use of Funds for Early Childhood Intervention and Treatment 
Programs.--An eligible entity shall use amounts awarded under a grant 
under subsection (a)(1) to carry out the following activities:
            (1) Deliver (or facilitate) for eligible children treatment 
        and education, early childhood intervention, and specialized 
        preschool and elementary school programs, including the 
        provision of medically based child care and early education 
        services.
            (2) Treat and educate eligible children, including startup, 
        curricula development, operating and capital needs, staff and 
        equipment, assessment and intervention services, administration 
        and medication requirements, enrollment costs, collaboration 
        with primary care physicians and psychiatrists, other related 
        services to meet emergency needs of children, and communication 
        with families and medical professionals concerning the 
        children.
            (3) Develop and implement other strategies to address 
        identified treatment and educational needs of eligible children 
        that have reliable and valid evaluation modalities built into 
        assess outcomes based on sound scientific metrics as determined 
        by the NMHPL.
    (e) Use of Funds for Longitudinal Study.--In conducting a study on 
longitudinal outcomes through a grant under subsection (a)(2), an 
eligible entity shall include an analysis of--
            (1) the individuals treated and educated;
            (2) the success of such treatment and education in avoiding 
        the onset of serious mental illness or the preparation of such 
        children for the care and management of serious mental illness;
            (3) any evidence-based best practices generally applicable 
        as a result of such treatment and educational techniques used 
        with such children; and
            (4) the ability of programs to be replicated as a best 
        practice model of intervention.
    (f) Requirements.--In carrying out this section, the Secretary 
shall ensure that each entity receiving a grant under subsection (a) 
maintains a written agreement with the Secretary, and provides regular 
written reports, as required by the Secretary, regarding the quality, 
efficiency, and effectiveness of intervention and treatment for 
eligible children preventing or treating the development and onset of 
serious mental illness.
    (g) Amount of Awards.--
            (1) Amounts for early childhood intervention and treatment 
        programs.--The amount of an award to an eligible entity under 
        subsection (a)(1) shall be not more than $600,000 per fiscal 
        year.
            (2) Amounts for longitudinal study.--The total amount of an 
        award to an eligible entity under subsection (a)(2) (for one or 
        more fiscal years) shall be not less than $1,000,000 and not 
        greater than $2,000,000.
    (h) Project Terms.--The period of a grant--
            (1) for awards under subsection (a)(1), shall be not less 
        than 3 fiscal years and not more than 10 fiscal years; and
            (2) for awards under subsection (a)(2), shall be not more 
        than 5 fiscal years.
    (i) Matching Funds.--The Director of the NMHPL may not award a 
grant under this section to an eligible entity unless the eligible 
entity agrees, with respect to the costs to be incurred by the eligible 
entity in carrying out the activities described in subparagraph (D), to 
make available non-Federal contributions (in cash or in kind) toward 
such costs in an amount equal to not less than 10 percent of Federal 
funds provided in the grant.
    (j) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) The term ``emergency room boarding'' means the practice 
        of admitting patients to an emergency department and holding 
        them in the department until inpatient psychiatric beds become 
        available.
            (2) The term ``primary prevention'' means prevention that 
        is designed to prevent a disease or condition from occurring 
        among the general population without regard to identifying the 
        presence of risk factors or symptoms in the population.
    (k) Funding.--Of the amounts made available to carry out part E of 
title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290ff et seq.) for 
each of fiscal years 2016 through 2021, not more than 5 percent of such 
amounts are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section.

SEC. 205. EXTENSION OF ASSISTED OUTPATIENT TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    Section 224 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (42 
U.S.C. 290aa note) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (e), by striking ``and 2018'' and 
        inserting ``2018, 2019, and 2020''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2018'' and 
                inserting ``2020'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) by striking ``$15,000,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$20,000,000''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
                        ``2020''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Allocation.--Of the funds made available to carry out 
        this section for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall allocate--
                    ``(A) 20 percent of such funds for existing 
                assisted outpatient treatment programs; and
                    ``(B) 80 percent of such funds for new assisted 
                outpatient treatment programs.''.

SEC. 206. BLOCK GRANTS.

    (a) Best Practices in Clinical Care Models.--Section 1920 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-9) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(c) Best Practices in Clinical Care Models.--The Secretary, 
acting through the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, 
shall obligate 5 percent of the amounts appropriated for a fiscal year 
under subsection (a) for translating evidence-based (as defined in 
section 2 of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) 
interventions and best available science into systems of care, such as 
through models including--
            ``(1) the Recovery After an Initial Schizophrenia Episode 
        research project of the National Institute of Mental Health; 
        and
            ``(2) the North American Prodrome Longitudinal Study.''.
    (b) Administration of Block Grants by Assistant Secretary.--Section 
1911(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x) is amended by 
striking ``acting through the Director of the Center for Mental Health 
Services'' and inserting ``acting through the Assistant Secretary for 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders''.
    (c) Additional Program Requirements.--
            (1) Integrated services.--Subsection (b)(1) of section 1912 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(b)(1)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The plan provides'' and 
                inserting:
                    ``(A) The plan provides'';
                    (B) in the subparagraph (A) inserted by paragraph 
                (1), in the second sentence, by striking ``health and 
                mental health services'' and inserting ``integrated 
                physical and mental health services'';
                    (C) in such subparagraph (A), by striking ``The 
                plan shall include'' through the period at the end and 
                inserting ``The plan shall integrate and coordinate 
                services to maximize the efficiency, effectiveness, 
                quality, coordination, and cost effectiveness of those 
                services and programs to produce the best possible 
                outcomes for those with serious mental illness.''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) The plan shall include a separate description 
                of case management services and provide for activities 
                leading to reduction of rates of suicides, suicide 
                attempts, substance abuse, overdose deaths, emergency 
                hospitalizations, incarceration, crimes, arrest, 
                victimization, homelessness, joblessness, medication 
                nonadherence, and education and vocational programs 
                drop outs. The plan must also include a detailed list 
                of services available for eligible patients (as defined 
                in subsection (d)(3)) in each county or county 
                equivalent, including assisted outpatient treatment.''.
            (2) Data collection system.--Subsection (b)(2) of section 
        1912 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(b)(2)) 
        is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``The plan contains an estimate 
                of'' and inserting the following: ``The plan contains--
                    ``(A) an estimate of'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), as inserted by paragraph 
                (1), by inserting ``, including reductions in 
                homelessness, emergency hospitalization, incarceration, 
                and unemployment for eligible patients (as defined in 
                subsection (d)(3)),'' after ``targets'';
                    (C) in such subparagraph, by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(B) an agreement by the State to report to the 
                National Mental Health Policy Laboratory such data as 
                may be required by the Secretary concerning--
                            ``(i) comprehensive community mental health 
                        services in the State; and
                            ``(ii) public health outcomes for persons 
                        with serious mental illness in the State, 
                        including rates of suicides, suicide attempts, 
                        substance abuse, overdose deaths, emergency 
                        hospitalizations, incarceration, crimes, 
                        arrest, victimization, homelessness, 
                        joblessness, medication non-adherence, and 
                        education and vocational programs drop outs.''.
            (3) Implementation of plan.--Subsection (d) of section 1912 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1(d)) is 
        amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``Except as provided'' and 
                        inserting:
                    ``(A) Except as provided''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subparagraph:
                    ``(B) For eligible patients receiving treatment 
                through funds awarded under a grant under section 1911, 
                a State shall include in the State plan for the first 
                year beginning after the date of the enactment of this 
                subparagraph and each subsequent year, a de-
                individualized report, containing information that is 
                open source and de-identified, on the services provided 
                to those individuals, including--
                            ``(i) outcomes and the overall cost of such 
                        treatment provided; and
                            ``(ii) county or county equivalent level 
                        data on such patient population, including 
                        overall costs and raw number data on rates of 
                        involuntary inpatient and outpatient commitment 
                        orders, suicides, suicide attempts, substance 
                        abuse, overdose deaths, emergency 
                        hospitalizations, incarceration, crimes, 
                        arrest, victimization, homelessness, 
                        joblessness, medication non-adherence, and 
                        education and vocational programs drop outs.''; 
                        and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(3) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `eligible 
        patient' means an adult mentally ill person who--
                    ``(A) may have a history of violence, 
                incarceration, or medically unnecessary 
                hospitalizations;
                    ``(B) without supervision and treatment, may be a 
                danger to self or others in the community;
                    ``(C) is substantially unlikely to voluntarily 
                participate in treatment;
                    ``(D) may be unable, for reasons other than 
                indigence, to provide for any of the basic needs of 
                such person, such as food, clothing, shelter, health, 
                or safety;
                    ``(E) with a history of mental illness or condition 
                that is likely to substantially deteriorate if the 
                person is not provided with timely treatment;
                    ``(F) due to mental illness, lacks capacity to 
                fully understand or lacks judgment to make informed 
                decisions regarding his or her need for treatment, 
                care, or supervision; and
                    ``(G) is likely to improve in mental health and 
                reduce the symptoms of serious mental illness when in 
                treatment.''.
            (4) Treatment under state law.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 1912 of the Public Health 
                Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1) is amended by adding at 
                the end the following new subsections:
    ``(e) Assisted Outpatient Treatment Under State Law.--
            ``(1) In general.--A funding agreement for a grant under 
        section 1911 is that the State involved has in effect a law 
        under which a State court may order a treatment plan for an 
        eligible patient that--
                    ``(A) requires such patient to obtain outpatient 
                mental health treatment while the patient is living in 
                a community; and
                    ``(B) is designed to improve access and adherence 
                by such patient to intensive behavioral health services 
                in order to--
                            ``(i) avert relapse, repeated 
                        hospitalizations, arrest, incarceration, 
                        suicide, property destruction, and violent 
                        behavior; and
                            ``(ii) provide such patient with the 
                        opportunity to live in a less restrictive 
                        alternative to incarceration or involuntary 
                        hospitalization.
            ``(2) Certification of state compliance.--A funding 
        agreement described in paragraph (1) is effective only if the 
        Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use 
        Disorders reviews the State law and certifies that it satisfies 
        the criteria specified in such paragraph.
    ``(f) Treatment Standard Under State Law.--
            ``(1) In general.--A funding agreement for a grant under 
        section 1911 is that--
                    ``(A) the State involved has in effect a law under 
                which, if a State court finds by clear and convincing 
                evidence that an individual, as a result of mental 
                illness, is a danger to self, is a danger to others, is 
                persistently or acutely disabled, or is gravely 
                disabled and in need of treatment, and is either 
                unwilling or unable to accept voluntary treatment, the 
                court must order the individual to undergo inpatient or 
                outpatient treatment; or
                    ``(B) the State involved has in effect a law under 
                which a State court must order an individual with a 
                mental illness to undergo inpatient or outpatient 
                treatment, the law was in effect on the date of 
                enactment of the Helping Families in Mental Health 
                Crisis Act of 2015, and the Secretary finds that the 
                law requires a State court to order such treatment 
                across all or a sufficient range of the type of 
                circumstances described in subparagraph (A).
            ``(2) Definition.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the term 
        `persistently or acutely disabled' refers to a serious mental 
        illness that meets all the following criteria:
                    ``(A) If not treated, the illness has a substantial 
                probability of causing the individual to suffer or 
                continue to suffer severe and abnormal mental, 
                emotional, or physical harm that significantly impairs 
                judgment, reason, behavior, or capacity to recognize 
                reality.
                    ``(B) The illness substantially impairs the 
                individual's capacity to make an informed decision 
                regarding treatment, and this impairment causes the 
                individual to be incapable of understanding and 
                expressing an understanding of the advantages and 
                disadvantages of accepting treatment and understanding 
                and expressing an understanding of the alternatives to 
                the particular treatment offered after the advantages, 
                disadvantages, and alternatives are explained to that 
                individual.
                    ``(C) The illness has a reasonable prospect of 
                being treatable by outpatient, inpatient, or combined 
                inpatient and outpatient treatment.''.
                    (B) Funding increase.--Section 1918 of the Public 
                Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-7) is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)(1), by striking 
                        ``subsection (b)'' and inserting ``subsections 
                        (b) and (d)''; and
                            (ii) by adding at the end the following new 
                        subsection:
    ``(d) Increase for Certain States.--With respect to fiscal year 
2016 and each subsequent fiscal year, in the case of a State that has 
in effect a law described in subsection (e)(1) or subparagraph (A) or 
(B) of subsection (f)(1), the amount of the allotment of a State under 
section 1911 shall be for such fiscal year the amount that would 
otherwise be determined, without application of this subsection, for 
such State for such fiscal year, increased by 2 percent.''.
            (5) Evidence-based services delivery models.--Section 1912 
        of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1), as amended 
        by paragraph (4), is further amended by adding at the end the 
        following new subsection:
    ``(g) Expansion of Models.--
            ``(1) In general.--Taking into account the results of 
        evaluations under section 201(a)(2)(C) of the Helping Families 
        in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015, the Assistant Secretary 
        may, by rule, as part of the program of block grants under this 
        subpart, provide for expanded use across the Nation of 
        evidence-based service delivery models by providers funded 
        under such block grants, so long as--
                    ``(A) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
                Substance Use Disorders (in this subsection referred to 
                as the `Assistant Secretary') determines that such 
                expansion will--
                            ``(i) result in more effective use of funds 
                        under such block grants without reducing the 
                        quality of care; or
                            ``(ii) improve the quality of patient care 
                        without significantly increasing spending;
                    ``(B) the Director of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health determines that such expansion would 
                improve the quality of patient care; and
                    ``(C) the Assistant Secretary determines that the 
                change will--
                            ``(i) significantly reduce severity and 
                        duration of symptoms of mental illness;
                            ``(ii) reduce rates of suicide, suicide 
                        attempts, substance abuse, overdose, emergency 
                        hospitalizations, emergency room boarding, 
                        incarceration, crime, arrest, victimization, 
                        homelessness, or joblessness; or
                            ``(iii) significantly improve the quality 
                        of patient care and mental health crisis 
                        outcomes without significantly increasing 
                        spending.
            ``(2) Congressional review.--Any rule promulgated pursuant 
        to paragraph (1) is deemed to be a major rule subject to 
        congressional review and disapproval under chapter 8 of title 
        5, United States Code.
            ``(3) Definition.--In this subsection, the term `emergency 
        room boarding' means the practice of admitting patients to an 
        emergency department and holding them in the department until 
        inpatient psychiatric beds become available.''.
    (d) Period for Expenditure of Grant Funds.--Section 1913 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-2), as amended, is further 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Period for Expenditure of Grant Funds.--In implementing a 
plan submitted under section 1912(a), a State receiving grant funds 
under section 1911 may make such funds available to providers of 
services described in subsection (b) for the provision of services 
without fiscal year limitation.''.
    (e) Active Outreach and Engagement.--Section 1915 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-4) is amended by adding at the end 
of the following:
    ``(c) Active Outreach and Engagement to Persons With Serious Mental 
Illness.--A funding agreement for a grant under section 1911 is that 
the State involved has in effect active programs, including assisted 
outpatient treatment, to engage persons with serious mental illness who 
are substantially unlikely to voluntarily seek treatment, in 
comprehensive services in order to avert relapse, repeated 
hospitalizations, arrest, incarceration, and suicide to provide the 
patient with the opportunity to live in the community through evidence-
based (as defined in section 2 of the Helping Families in Mental Health 
Crisis Act of 2015) assertive outreach and engagement services 
targeting individuals that are homeless, have co-occurring disorders, 
or have a history of treatment failure. The Assistant Secretary for 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders shall work with the Director 
of the National Institute of Mental Health to develop a list of such 
evidence-based (as defined in section 2 of the Helping Families in 
Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) assertive outreach and engagement 
services, as well as criteria to be used to assess the scope and 
effectiveness of such approaches. These programs may include assistant 
outpatient treatment programs under State law where State courts may 
order a treatment plan for an eligible patient that requires--
            ``(1) such patient to obtain outpatient mental health 
        treatment while the patient is living in the community; and
            ``(2) a design to improve access and adherence by such 
        patient to intensive mental health services.''.

SEC. 207. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) Telepsychiatry and Primary Care Physician Training Grant 
Program.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary of Mental Health 
        and Substance Use Disorders (in this subsection referred to as 
        the ``Assistant Secretary'') shall establish a grant program 
        (in this subsection referred to as the ``grant program'') under 
        which the Assistant Secretary shall award to 10 eligible States 
        (as described in paragraph (5)) grants for carrying out all of 
        the purposes described in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4).
            (2) Training program for certain primary care physicians.--
        For purposes of paragraph (1), the purpose described in this 
        paragraph, with respect to a grant awarded to a State under the 
        grant program, is for the State to establish a training program 
        to train primary care physicians in--
                    (A) valid and reliable behavioral-health screening 
                tools for violence and suicide risk, early signs of 
                serious mental illness, and untreated substance abuse, 
                including any standardized behavioral-health screening 
                tools that are determined appropriate by the Assistant 
                Secretary;
                    (B) implementing the use of behavioral-health 
                screening tools in their practices;
                    (C) establishment of recommended intervention and 
                treatment protocols for individuals in mental health 
                crisis, especially for individuals whose illness makes 
                them less receptive to mental health services; and
                    (D) implementing the evidence-based collaborative 
                care model of integrated medical-behavioral health care 
                in their practices.
            (3) Payments for mental health services provided by certain 
        primary care physicians.--
                    (A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
                purpose described in this paragraph, with respect to a 
                grant awarded to a State under the grant program, is 
                for the State to provide, in accordance with this 
                paragraph, in the case of a primary care physician who 
                participates in the training program of the State 
                establish pursuant to paragraph (2), payments to the 
                primary care physician for services furnished by the 
                primary care physician.
                    (B) Considerations.--The Assistant Secretary, in 
                determining the structure, quality, and form of payment 
                under subparagraph (A) shall seek to find innovative 
                payment systems which may take into account--
                            (i) the nature and quality of services 
                        rendered;
                            (ii) the patients' health outcome;
                            (iii) the geographical location where 
                        services were provided;
                            (iv) the acuteness of the patient's medical 
                        condition;
                            (v) the duration of services provided;
                            (vi) the feasibility of replicating the 
                        payment model in other locations nationwide; 
                        and
                            (vii) proper triage and enduring linkage to 
                        appropriate treatment provider for subspecialty 
                        care in child or forensic issues; family crisis 
                        intervention; drug or alcohol rehabilitation; 
                        management of suicidal or violent behavior 
                        risk, and treatment for serious mental illness.
            (4) Telehealth services for mental health disorders.--
                    (A) In general.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
                purpose described in this paragraph, with respect to a 
                grant awarded to a State under the grant program, is 
                for the State to provide, in the case of an individual 
                furnished items and services by a primary care 
                physician during an office visit, for payment for a 
                consultation provided by a psychiatrist or psychologist 
                to such physician with respect to such individual 
                through the use of qualified telehealth technology for 
                the identification, diagnosis, mitigation, or treatment 
                of a mental health disorder if such consultation occurs 
                not later than the first business day that follows such 
                visit.
                    (B) Qualified telehealth technology.--For purposes 
                of subparagraph (A), the term ``qualified telehealth 
                technology'', with respect to the provision of items 
                and services to a patient by a health care provider, 
                includes the use of interactive audio, audio-only 
                telephone conversation, video, or other 
                telecommunications technology by a health care provider 
                to deliver health care services within the scope of the 
                provider's practice at a site other than the site where 
                the patient is located, including the use of electronic 
                media for consultation relating to the health care 
                diagnosis or treatment of the patient.
            (5) Eligible state.--
                    (A) In general.--For purposes of this subsection, 
                an eligible State is a State that has submitted to the 
                Assistant Secretary an application under subparagraph 
                (B) and has been selected under subparagraph (D).
                    (B) Application.--A State seeking to participate in 
                the grant program under this subsection shall submit to 
                the Assistant Secretary, at such time and in such 
                format as the Assistant Secretary requires, an 
                application that includes such information, provisions, 
                and assurances as the Assistant Secretary may require.
                    (C) Matching requirement.--The Assistant Secretary 
                may not make a grant under the grant program unless the 
                State involved agrees, with respect to the costs to be 
                incurred by the State in carrying out the purposes 
                described in this subsection, to make available non-
                Federal contributions (in cash or in kind) toward such 
                costs in an amount equal to not less than 20 percent of 
                Federal funds provided in the grant.
                    (D) Selection.--A State shall be determined 
                eligible for the grant program by the Assistant 
                Secretary on a competitive basis among States with 
                applications meeting the requirements of subparagraphs 
                (B) and (C). In selecting State applications for the 
                grant program, the Secretary shall seek to achieve an 
                appropriate national balance in the geographic 
                distribution of grants awarded under the grant program.
            (6) Target population.--In seeking a grant under this 
        subsection, a State shall demonstrate how the grant will 
        improve care for individuals with co-occurring behavioral 
        health and physical health conditions, vulnerable populations, 
        socially isolated populations, rural populations, and other 
        populations who have limited access to qualified mental health 
        providers.
            (7) Length of grant program.--The grant program under this 
        subsection shall be conducted for a period of 3 consecutive 
        years.
            (8) Public availability of findings and conclusions.--
        Subject to Federal privacy protections with respect to 
        individually identifiable information, the Assistant Secretary 
        shall make the findings and conclusions resulting from the 
        grant program under this subsection available to the public.
            (9) Authorization of appropriations.--Out of any funds in 
        the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there is authorized to 
        be appropriated to carry out this subsection, $3,000,000 for 
        each of the fiscal years 2016 through 2020.
            (10) Reports.--
                    (A) Reports.--For each fiscal year that grants are 
                awarded under this subsection, the Assistant Secretary 
                and the National Mental Health Policy Laboratory shall 
                conduct a study on the results of the grants and submit 
                to the Congress a report on such results that includes 
                the following:
                            (i) An evaluation of the grant program 
                        outcomes, including a summary of activities 
                        carried out with the grant and the results 
                        achieved through those activities.
                            (ii) Recommendations on how to improve 
                        access to mental health services at grantee 
                        locations.
                            (iii) An assessment of access to mental 
                        health services under the program.
                            (iv) An assessment of the impact of the 
                        demonstration project on the costs of the full 
                        range of mental health services (including 
                        inpatient, emergency and ambulatory care).
                            (v) Recommendations on congressional action 
                        to improve the grant.
                            (vi) Recommendations to improve training of 
                        primary care physicians.
                    (B) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the 
                Assistant Secretary and the National Mental Health 
                Policy Laboratory shall submit to Congress and make 
                available to the public a report on the findings of the 
                evaluation under subparagraph (A) and also a policy 
                outline on how Congress can expand the grant program to 
                the national level.
    (b) Liability Protections for Health Care Professional Volunteers 
at Community Health Centers and Federally Qualified Community 
Behavioral Health Clinics.--Section 224 of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 233) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q)(1) In this subsection, the term `federally qualified 
community behavioral health clinic' means--
            ``(A) a federally qualified community behavioral health 
        clinic with a certification in effect under section 223 of the 
        Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014; or
            ``(B) a community mental health center meeting the criteria 
        specified in section 1913(c) of this Act.
    ``(2) For purposes of this section, a health care professional 
volunteer at an entity described in subsection (g)(4) or a federally 
qualified community behavioral health clinic shall, in providing health 
care services eligible for funding under section 330 or subpart I of 
part B of title XIX to an individual, be deemed to be an employee of 
the Public Health Service for a calendar year that begins during a 
fiscal year for which a transfer was made under paragraph (5)(C). The 
preceding sentence is subject to the provisions of this subsection.
    ``(3) In providing a health care service to an individual, a health 
care professional shall for purposes of this subsection be considered 
to be a health professional volunteer at an entity described in 
subsection (g)(4) or at a federally qualified community behavioral 
health clinic if the following conditions are met:
            ``(A) The service is provided to the individual at the 
        facilities of an entity described in subsection (g)(4), at a 
        federally qualified community behavioral health clinic, or 
        through offsite programs or events carried out by the center.
            ``(B) The center or entity is sponsoring the health care 
        professional volunteer pursuant to paragraph (4)(B).
            ``(C) The health care professional does not receive any 
        compensation for the service from the individual or from any 
        third-party payer (including reimbursement under any insurance 
        policy or health plan, or under any Federal or State health 
        benefits program), except that the health care professional may 
        receive repayment from the entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) or the center for reasonable expenses incurred by the 
        health care professional in the provision of the service to the 
        individual.
            ``(D) Before the service is provided, the health care 
        professional or the center or entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) posts a clear and conspicuous notice at the site where 
        the service is provided of the extent to which the legal 
        liability of the health care professional is limited pursuant 
        to this subsection.
            ``(E) At the time the service is provided, the health care 
        professional is licensed or certified in accordance with 
        applicable law regarding the provision of the service.
    ``(4) Subsection (g) (other than paragraphs (3) and (5)) and 
subsections (h), (i), and (l) apply to a health care professional for 
purposes of this subsection to the same extent and in the same manner 
as such subsections apply to an officer, governing board member, 
employee, or contractor of an entity described in subsection (g)(4), 
subject to paragraph (5) and subject to the following:
            ``(A) The first sentence of paragraph (2) applies in lieu 
        of the first sentence of subsection (g)(1)(A).
            ``(B) With respect to an entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) or a federally qualified community behavioral health 
        clinic, a health care professional is not a health professional 
        volunteer at such center unless the center sponsors the health 
        care professional. For purposes of this subsection, the center 
        shall be considered to be sponsoring the health care 
        professional if--
                    ``(i) with respect to the health care professional, 
                the center submits to the Secretary an application 
                meeting the requirements of subsection (g)(1)(D); and
                    ``(ii) the Secretary, pursuant to subsection 
                (g)(1)(E), determines that the health care professional 
                is deemed to be an employee of the Public Health 
                Service.
            ``(C) In the case of a health care professional who is 
        determined by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(E) to 
        be a health professional volunteer at such center, this 
        subsection applies to the health care professional (with 
        respect to services described in paragraph (2)) for any cause 
        of action arising from an act or omission of the health care 
        professional occurring on or after the date on which the 
        Secretary makes such determination.
            ``(D) Subsection (g)(1)(F) applies to a health professional 
        volunteer for purposes of this subsection only to the extent 
        that, in providing health services to an individual, each of 
        the conditions specified in paragraph (3) is met.
    ``(5)(A) Amounts in the fund established under subsection (k)(2) 
shall be available for transfer under subparagraph (C) for purposes of 
carrying out this subsection for health professional volunteers at 
entities described in subsection (g)(4).
    ``(B) Not later than May 1 of each fiscal year, the Attorney 
General, in consultation with the Secretary, shall submit to the 
Congress a report providing an estimate of the amount of claims 
(together with related fees and expenses of witnesses) that, by reason 
of the acts or omissions of health care professional volunteers, will 
be paid pursuant to this subsection during the calendar year that 
begins in the following fiscal year. Subsection (k)(1)(B) applies to 
the estimate under the preceding sentence regarding health care 
professional volunteers to the same extent and in the same manner as 
such subsection applies to the estimate under such subsection regarding 
officers, governing board members, employees, and contractors of 
entities described in subsection (g)(4).
    ``(C) Not later than December 31 of each fiscal year, the Secretary 
shall transfer from the fund under subsection (k)(2) to the appropriate 
accounts in the Treasury an amount equal to the estimate made under 
subparagraph (B) for the calendar year beginning in such fiscal year, 
subject to the extent of amounts in the fund.
    ``(6)(A) This subsection takes effect on October 1, 2017, except as 
provided in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) Effective on the date of the enactment of this subsection--
            ``(i) the Secretary may issue regulations for carrying out 
        this subsection, and the Secretary may accept and consider 
        applications submitted pursuant to paragraph (4)(B); and
            ``(ii) reports under paragraph (5)(B) may be submitted to 
        the Congress.''.
    (c) Minority Fellowship Program.--Title V of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.), as amended, is further amended 
by adding at the end the following:

                 ``PART K--MINORITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM

``SEC. 597. FELLOWSHIPS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain a program, to be 
known as the Minority Fellowship Program, under which the Secretary 
awards fellowships, which may include stipends, for the purposes of--
            ``(1) increasing behavioral health practitioners' knowledge 
        of issues related to prevention, treatment, and recovery 
        support for mental and substance use disorders among racial and 
        ethnic minority populations;
            ``(2) improving the quality of mental and substance use 
        disorder prevention and treatment delivered to ethnic 
        minorities; and
            ``(3) increasing the number of culturally competent 
        behavioral health professionals who teach, administer, conduct 
        services research, and provide direct mental health or 
        substance use services to underserved minority populations.
    ``(b) Training Covered.--The fellowships under subsection (a) shall 
be for postbaccalaureate training (including for master's and doctoral 
degrees) for mental health professionals, including in the fields of 
psychiatry, nursing, social work, psychology, marriage and family 
therapy, and substance use and addiction counseling.
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $6,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2020.''.
    (d) National Health Service Corps.--
            (1) Definitions.--
                    (A) Primary health services.--Section 331(a)(3)(D) 
                of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)) 
                is amended by inserting ``(including pediatric mental 
                health subspecialty services)'' after ``pediatrics''.
                    (B) Behavioral and mental health professionals.--
                Clause (i) of section 331(a)(3)(E)(i) of the Public 
                Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)(E)(i)) is 
                amended by inserting ``(and pediatric subspecialists 
                thereof)'' before the period at the end.
                    (C) Health professional shortage area.--Section 
                332(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act is amended 
                by inserting ``(including children and adolescents)'' 
                after ``population group''.
                    (D) Medical facility.--Section 332(a)(2)(A) of the 
                Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting 
                ``medical residency or fellowship training site for 
                training in child and adolescent psychiatry,'' before 
                ``facility operated by a city or county health 
                department,''.
            (2) Eligibility to participate in loan repayment program.--
        Section 338A(b)(1)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 254l-1(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ``, including 
        any physician child and adolescent psychiatry residency or 
        fellowship training program'' after ``be enrolled in an 
        approved graduate training program in medicine, osteopathic 
        medicine, dentistry, behavioral and mental health, or other 
        health profession''.
    (e) Crisis Intervention Grants for Police Officers and First 
Responders.--
            (1) Grants.--The Assistant Secretary may award grants to 
        provide specialized training to law enforcement officers, 
        corrections officers, paramedics, emergency medical services 
        workers, and other first responders (including village public 
        safety officers (as defined in section 247 of the Indian Arts 
        and Crafts Amendments Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 3796dd note)))--
                    (A) to recognize individuals who have mental 
                illness and how to properly intervene with individuals 
                with mental illness; and
                    (B) to establish programs that enhance the ability 
                of law enforcement agencies to address the mental 
                health, behavioral, and substance use problems of 
                individuals encountered in the line of duty.
            (2) Funding.--Of the amounts made available to carry out 
        sections 501, 509, 516, and 520A of the Public Health Service 
        Act for a fiscal year, 5 percent of such amounts are authorized 
        to be used to carry out this subsection.

SEC. 208. AUTHORIZED GRANTS AND PROGRAMS.

    (a) Children's Recovery From Trauma.--Section 582 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290hh-1) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``developing programs'' 
        and all that follows and inserting the following: ``developing 
        and maintaining programs that provide for--
            ``(1) the continued operation of the National Child 
        Traumatic Stress Initiative (referred to in this section as the 
        `NCTSI'), which includes a coordinating center, that focuses on 
        the mental, behavioral, and biological aspects of psychological 
        trauma response; and
            ``(2) the development of knowledge with regard to evidence-
        based (as defined in section 2 of the Helping Families in 
        Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) practices for identifying and 
        treating mental, behavioral, and biological disorders of 
        children and youth resulting from witnessing or experiencing a 
        traumatic event.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``subsection (a) related'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (a)(2) (related'';
                    (B) by striking ``treating disorders associated 
                with psychological trauma'' and inserting ``treating 
                mental, behavioral, and biological disorders associated 
                with psychological trauma)''; and
                    (C) by striking ``mental health agencies and 
                programs that have established clinical and basic 
                research'' and inserting ``universities, hospitals, 
                mental health agencies, and other programs that have 
                established clinical expertise and research'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (c) through (g) as 
        subsections (g) through (k), respectively;
            (4) by inserting after subsection (b), the following:
    ``(c) Child Outcome Data.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall 
collect, analyze, and report NCTSI-wide child treatment process and 
outcome data regarding the early identification and delivery of 
evidence-based (as defined in section 2 of the Helping Families in 
Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) treatment and services for children 
and families served by the NCTSI grantees.
    ``(d) Training.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall facilitate the 
coordination of training initiatives in evidence-based (as defined in 
section 2 of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) 
and trauma-informed treatments, interventions, and practices offered to 
NCTSI grantees, providers, and partners.
    ``(e) Dissemination.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall, as 
appropriate, collaborate with the Secretary in the dissemination of 
evidence-based and trauma-informed interventions, treatments, products, 
and other resources to appropriate stakeholders.
    ``(f) Review.--The Secretary shall, consistent with the peer-review 
process, ensure that NCTSI applications are reviewed by appropriate 
experts in the field as part of a consensus review process. The 
Secretary shall include review criteria related to expertise and 
experience in child trauma and evidence-based (as defined in section 2 
of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) 
practices.'';
            (5) in subsection (g) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``with respect to centers of excellence are distributed 
        equitably among the regions of the country'' and inserting 
        ``are distributed equitably among the regions of the United 
        States'';
            (6) in subsection (i) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``recipient may not exceed 5 years'' and inserting ``recipient 
        shall not be less than 4 years, but shall not exceed 5 years''; 
        and
            (7) in subsection (j) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``$50,000,000'' and all that follows through ``2006'' and 
        inserting ``$45,713,000 for each of fiscal years 2014 through 
        2018''.
    (b) Reducing the Stigma of Serious Mental Illness.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Education, along with the 
        Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use 
        Disorders, shall organize a national awareness campaign 
        involving public health organizations, advocacy groups for 
        persons with serious mental illness, and social media companies 
        to assist secondary school students and postsecondary students 
        in--
                    (A) reducing the stigma associated with serious 
                mental illness;
                    (B) understanding how to assist an individual who 
                is demonstrating signs of a serious mental illness; and
                    (C) understanding the importance of seeking 
                treatment from a physician, clinical psychologist, or 
                licensed mental health professional when a student 
                believes the student may be suffering from a serious 
                mental illness or behavioral health disorder.
            (2) Data collection.--The Secretary of Education shall--
                    (A) evaluate the program under subsection (a) on 
                public health to determine whether the program has made 
                an impact on public health, including mortality rates 
                of persons with serious mental illness, prevalence of 
                serious mental illness, physician and clinical 
                psychological visits, emergency room visits; and
                    (B) submit a report on the evaluation to the 
                National Mental Health Policy Laboratory created by 
                title I of this Act.
            (3) Secondary school defined.--For purposes of this 
        section, the term ``secondary school'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801).
    (c) Garrett Lee Smith Reauthorization.--
            (1) Suicide prevention technical assistance center.--
        Section 520C of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-
        34) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 520C. SUICIDE PREVENTION TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE CENTER.

    ``(a) Program Authorized.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental 
Health and Substance Use Disorders shall award a grant for the 
operation and maintenance of a research, training, and technical 
assistance resource center to provide appropriate information, 
training, and technical assistance to States, political subdivisions of 
States, federally recognized Indian tribes, tribal organizations, 
institutions of higher education, public organizations, or private 
nonprofit organizations concerning the prevention of suicide among all 
ages, particularly among groups that are at high risk for suicide.
    ``(b) Responsibilities of the Center.--The center operated and 
maintained under subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) assist in the development or continuation of 
        statewide and tribal suicide early intervention and prevention 
        strategies for all ages, particularly among groups that are at 
        high risk for suicide;
            ``(2) ensure the surveillance of suicide early intervention 
        and prevention strategies for all ages, particularly among 
        groups that are at high risk for suicide;
            ``(3) study the costs and effectiveness of statewide and 
        tribal suicide early intervention and prevention strategies in 
        order to provide information concerning relevant issues of 
        importance to State, tribal, and national policymakers;
            ``(4) further identify and understand causes and associated 
        risk factors for suicide for all ages, particularly among 
        groups that are at high risk for suicide;
            ``(5) analyze the efficacy of new and existing suicide 
        early intervention and prevention techniques and technology for 
        all ages, particularly among groups that are at high risk for 
        suicide;
            ``(6) ensure the surveillance of suicidal behaviors and 
        nonfatal suicidal attempts;
            ``(7) study the effectiveness of State-sponsored statewide 
        and tribal suicide early intervention and prevention strategies 
        for all ages particularly among groups that are at high risk 
        for suicide on the overall wellness and health promotion 
        strategies related to suicide attempts;
            ``(8) promote the sharing of data regarding suicide with 
        Federal agencies involved with suicide early intervention and 
        prevention, and State-sponsored statewide and tribal suicide 
        early intervention and prevention strategies for the purpose of 
        identifying previously unknown mental health causes and 
        associated risk factors for suicide among all ages particularly 
        among groups that are at high risk for suicide;
            ``(9) evaluate and disseminate outcomes and best practices 
        of mental health and substance use disorder services at 
        institutions of higher education; and
            ``(10) conduct other activities determined appropriate by 
        the Secretary.
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $4,957,000 
for each of the fiscal years 2016 through 2020.''.
            (2) Youth suicide intervention and prevention strategies.--
        Section 520E of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-
        36) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 520E. YOUTH SUICIDE EARLY INTERVENTION AND PREVENTION 
              STRATEGIES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
Secretary, shall award grants or cooperative agreements to eligible 
entities to--
            ``(1) develop and implement State-sponsored statewide or 
        tribal youth suicide early intervention and prevention 
        strategies in schools, educational institutions, juvenile 
        justice systems, substance use disorder programs, mental health 
        programs, foster care systems, and other child and youth 
        support organizations;
            ``(2) support public organizations and private nonprofit 
        organizations actively involved in State-sponsored statewide or 
        tribal youth suicide early intervention and prevention 
        strategies and in the development and continuation of State-
        sponsored statewide youth suicide early intervention and 
        prevention strategies;
            ``(3) provide grants to institutions of higher education to 
        coordinate the implementation of State-sponsored or tribal 
        youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategies;
            ``(4) collect and analyze data on State-sponsored statewide 
        or tribal youth suicide early intervention and prevention 
        services that can be used to monitor the effectiveness of such 
        services and for research, technical assistance, and policy 
        development; and
            ``(5) assist eligible entities, through State-sponsored 
        statewide or tribal youth suicide early intervention and 
        prevention strategies, in achieving targets for youth suicide 
        reductions under title V of the Social Security Act.
    ``(b) Eligible Entity.--
            ``(1) Definition.--In this section, the term `eligible 
        entity' means--
                    ``(A) a State;
                    ``(B) a public organization or private nonprofit 
                organization designated by a State to develop or direct 
                the State-sponsored statewide youth suicide early 
                intervention and prevention strategy; or
                    ``(C) a federally recognized Indian tribe or tribal 
                organization (as defined in the Indian Self-
                Determination and Education Assistance Act) or an urban 
                Indian organization (as defined in the Indian Health 
                Care Improvement Act) that is actively involved in the 
                development and continuation of a tribal youth suicide 
                early intervention and prevention strategy.
            ``(2) Limitation.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall ensure that a State does not receive more than 
        one grant or cooperative agreement under this section at any 
        one time. For purposes of the preceding sentence, a State shall 
        be considered to have received a grant or cooperative agreement 
        if the eligible entity involved is the State or an entity 
        designated by the State under paragraph (1)(B). Nothing in this 
        paragraph shall be construed to apply to entities described in 
        paragraph (1)(C).
    ``(c) Preference.--In providing assistance under a grant or 
cooperative agreement under this section, an eligible entity shall give 
preference to public organizations, private nonprofit organizations, 
political subdivisions, institutions of higher education, and tribal 
organizations actively involved with the State-sponsored statewide or 
tribal youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategy that--
            ``(1) provide early intervention and assessment services, 
        including screening programs, to youth who are at risk for 
        mental or emotional disorders that may lead to a suicide 
        attempt, and that are integrated with school systems, 
        educational institutions, juvenile justice systems, substance 
        use disorder programs, mental health programs, foster care 
        systems, and other child and youth support organizations;
            ``(2) demonstrate collaboration among early intervention 
        and prevention services or certify that entities will engage in 
        future collaboration;
            ``(3) employ or include in their applications a commitment 
        to evaluate youth suicide early intervention and prevention 
        practices and strategies adapted to the local community;
            ``(4) provide timely referrals for appropriate community-
        based mental health care and treatment of youth who are at risk 
        for suicide in child-serving settings and agencies;
            ``(5) provide immediate support and information resources 
        to families of youth who are at risk for suicide;
            ``(6) offer access to services and care to youth with 
        diverse linguistic and cultural backgrounds;
            ``(7) offer appropriate postsuicide intervention services, 
        care, and information to families, friends, schools, 
        educational institutions, juvenile justice systems, substance 
        use disorder programs, mental health programs, foster care 
        systems, and other child and youth support organizations of 
        youth who recently completed suicide;
            ``(8) offer continuous and up-to-date information and 
        awareness campaigns that target parents, family members, child 
        care professionals, community care providers, and the general 
        public and highlight the risk factors associated with youth 
        suicide and the life-saving help and care available from early 
        intervention and prevention services;
            ``(9) ensure that information and awareness campaigns on 
        youth suicide risk factors, and early intervention and 
        prevention services, use effective communication mechanisms 
        that are targeted to and reach youth, families, schools, 
        educational institutions, and youth organizations;
            ``(10) provide a timely response system to ensure that 
        child-serving professionals and providers are properly trained 
        in youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategies 
        and that child-serving professionals and providers involved in 
        early intervention and prevention services are properly trained 
        in effectively identifying youth who are at risk for suicide;
            ``(11) provide continuous training activities for child 
        care professionals and community care providers on the latest 
        youth suicide early intervention and prevention services 
        practices and strategies;
            ``(12) conduct annual self-evaluations of outcomes and 
        activities, including consulting with interested families and 
        advocacy organizations;
            ``(13) provide services in areas or regions with rates of 
        youth suicide that exceed the national average as determined by 
        the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and
            ``(14) obtain informed written consent from a parent or 
        legal guardian of an at-risk child before involving the child 
        in a youth suicide early intervention and prevention program.
    ``(d) Requirement for Direct Services.--Not less than 85 percent of 
grant funds received under this section shall be used to provide direct 
services, of which not less than 5 percent shall be used for activities 
authorized under subsection (a)(3).
    ``(e) Consultation and Policy Development.--
            ``(1) In general.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall collaborate with the Secretary of Education and 
        relevant Federal agencies and suicide working groups 
        responsible for early intervention and prevention services 
        relating to youth suicide.
            ``(2) Consultation.--In carrying out this section, the 
        Secretary shall consult with--
                    ``(A) State and local agencies, including agencies 
                responsible for early intervention and prevention 
                services under title XIX of the Social Security Act, 
                the State Children's Health Insurance Program under 
                title XXI of the Social Security Act, and programs 
                funded by grants under title V of the Social Security 
                Act;
                    ``(B) local and national organizations that serve 
                youth at risk for suicide and their families;
                    ``(C) relevant national medical and other health 
                and education specialty organizations;
                    ``(D) youth who are at risk for suicide, who have 
                survived suicide attempts, or who are currently 
                receiving care from early intervention services;
                    ``(E) families and friends of youth who are at risk 
                for suicide, who have survived suicide attempts, who 
                are currently receiving care from early intervention 
                and prevention services, or who have completed suicide;
                    ``(F) qualified professionals who possess the 
                specialized knowledge, skills, experience, and relevant 
                attributes needed to serve youth at risk for suicide 
                and their families; and
                    ``(G) third-party payers, managed care 
                organizations, and related commercial industries.
            ``(3) Policy development.--In carrying out this section, 
        the Secretary shall--
                    ``(A) coordinate and collaborate on policy 
                development at the Federal level with the relevant 
                Department of Health and Human Services agencies and 
                suicide working groups; and
                    ``(B) consult on policy development at the Federal 
                level with the private sector, including consumer, 
                medical, suicide prevention advocacy groups, and other 
                health and education professional-based organizations, 
                with respect to State-sponsored statewide or tribal 
                youth suicide early intervention and prevention 
                strategies.
    ``(f) Rule of Construction; Religious and Moral Accommodation.--
Nothing in this section shall be construed to require suicide 
assessment, early intervention, or treatment services for youth whose 
parents or legal guardians object based on the parents' or legal 
guardians' religious beliefs or moral objections.
    ``(g) Evaluations and Report.--
            ``(1) Evaluations by eligible entities.--Not later than 18 
        months after receiving a grant or cooperative agreement under 
        this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary 
        the results of an evaluation to be conducted by the entity 
        concerning the effectiveness of the activities carried out 
        under the grant or agreement.
            ``(2) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report concerning the 
        results of--
                    ``(A) the evaluations conducted under paragraph 
                (1); and
                    ``(B) an evaluation conducted by the Secretary to 
                analyze the effectiveness and efficacy of the 
                activities conducted with grants, collaborations, and 
                consultations under this section.
    ``(h) Rule of Construction; Student Medication.--Nothing in this 
section shall be construed to allow school personnel to require that a 
student obtain any medication as a condition of attending school or 
receiving services.
    ``(i) Prohibition.--Funds appropriated to carry out this section, 
section 527, or section 529 shall not be used to pay for or refer for 
abortion.
    ``(j) Parental Consent.--States and entities receiving funding 
under this section shall obtain prior written, informed consent from 
the child's parent or legal guardian for assessment services, school-
sponsored programs, and treatment involving medication related to youth 
suicide conducted in elementary and secondary schools. The requirement 
of the preceding sentence does not apply in the following cases:
            ``(1) In an emergency, where it is necessary to protect the 
        immediate health and safety of the student or other students.
            ``(2) Other instances, as defined by the State, where 
        parental consent cannot reasonably be obtained.
    ``(k) Relation to Education Provisions.--Nothing in this section 
shall be construed to supersede section 444 of the General Education 
Provisions Act, including the requirement of prior parental consent for 
the disclosure of any education records. Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to modify or affect parental notification requirements for 
programs authorized under the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 
1965 (as amended by the No Child Left Behind Act of 2001; Public Law 
107-110).
    ``(l) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Early intervention.--The term `early intervention' 
        means a strategy or approach that is intended to prevent an 
        outcome or to alter the course of an existing condition.
            ``(2) Educational institution; institution of higher 
        education; school.--The term--
                    ``(A) `educational institution' means a school or 
                institution of higher education;
                    ``(B) `institution of higher education' has the 
                meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher 
                Education Act of 1965; and
                    ``(C) `school' means an elementary or secondary 
                school (as such terms are defined in section 9101 of 
                the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965).
            ``(3) Prevention.--The term `prevention' means a strategy 
        or approach that reduces the likelihood or risk of onset, or 
        delays the onset, of adverse health problems that have been 
        known to lead to suicide.
            ``(4) Youth.--The term `youth' means individuals who are 
        between 10 and 26 years of age.
    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $29,738,000 
for each of the fiscal years 2016 through 2020.''.
            (3) Suicide prevention for youth.--Section 520E-1 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36a) is amended--
                    (A) by amending the section heading to read as 
                follows: ``suicide prevention for youth''; and
                    (B) by striking subsection (n) and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(n) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as 
may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020.''.
            (4) Mental health and substance use disorders services and 
        outreach on campus.--Section 520E-2 of the Public Health 
        Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36b) is amended to read as 
        follows:

``SEC. 520E-2. MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDERS SERVICES ON 
              CAMPUS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Director of 
the Center for Mental Health Services and in consultation with the 
Secretary of Education, shall award grants on a competitive basis to 
institutions of higher education to enhance services for students with 
mental health or substance use disorders and to develop best practices 
for the delivery of such services.
    ``(b) Uses of Funds.--Amounts received under a grant under this 
section shall be used for 1 or more of the following activities:
            ``(1) The provision of mental health and substance use 
        disorder services to students, including prevention, promotion 
        of mental health, voluntary screening, early intervention, 
        voluntary assessment, treatment, and management of mental 
        health and substance use disorder issues.
            ``(2) The provision of outreach services to notify students 
        about the existence of mental health and substance use disorder 
        services.
            ``(3) Educating students, families, faculty, staff, and 
        communities to increase awareness of mental health and 
        substance use disorders.
            ``(4) The employment of appropriately trained staff, 
        including administrative staff.
            ``(5) The provision of training to students, faculty, and 
        staff to respond effectively to students with mental health and 
        substance use disorders.
            ``(6) The creation of a networking infrastructure to link 
        colleges and universities with providers who can treat mental 
        health and substance use disorders.
            ``(7) Developing, supporting, evaluating, and disseminating 
        evidence-based and emerging best practices.
    ``(c) Implementation of Activities Using Grant Funds.--An 
institution of higher education that receives a grant under this 
section may carry out activities under the grant through--
            ``(1) college counseling centers;
            ``(2) college and university psychological service centers;
            ``(3) mental health centers;
            ``(4) psychology training clinics;
            ``(5) institution of higher education supported, evidence-
        based, mental health and substance use disorder programs; or
            ``(6) any other entity that provides mental health and 
        substance use disorder services at an institution of higher 
        education.
    ``(d) Application.--To be eligible to receive a grant under this 
section, an institution of higher education shall prepare and submit to 
the Secretary an application at such time and in such manner as the 
Secretary may require. At a minimum, such application shall include the 
following:
            ``(1) A description of identified mental health and 
        substance use disorder needs of students at the institution of 
        higher education.
            ``(2) A description of Federal, State, local, private, and 
        institutional resources currently available to address the 
        needs described in paragraph (1) at the institution of higher 
        education.
            ``(3) A description of the outreach strategies of the 
        institution of higher education for promoting access to 
        services, including a proposed plan for reaching those students 
        most in need of mental health services.
            ``(4) A plan, when applicable, to meet the specific mental 
        health and substance use disorder needs of veterans attending 
        institutions of higher education.
            ``(5) A plan to seek input from community mental health 
        providers, when available, community groups and other public 
        and private entities in carrying out the program under the 
        grant.
            ``(6) A plan to evaluate program outcomes, including a 
        description of the proposed use of funds, the program 
        objectives, and how the objectives will be met.
            ``(7) An assurance that the institution will submit a 
        report to the Secretary each fiscal year concerning the 
        activities carried out with the grant and the results achieved 
        through those activities.
    ``(e) Special Considerations.--In awarding grants under this 
section, the Secretary shall give special consideration to applications 
that describe programs to be carried out under the grant that--
            ``(1) demonstrate the greatest need for new or additional 
        mental and substance use disorder services, in part by 
        providing information on current ratios of students to mental 
        health and substance use disorder health professionals; and
            ``(2) demonstrate the greatest potential for replication.
    ``(f) Requirement of Matching Funds.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may make a grant under 
        this section to an institution of higher education only if the 
        institution agrees to make available (directly or through 
        donations from public or private entities) non-Federal 
        contributions in an amount that is not less than $1 for each $1 
        of Federal funds provided under the grant, toward the costs of 
        activities carried out with the grant (as described in 
        subsection (b)) and other activities by the institution to 
        reduce student mental health and substance use disorders.
            ``(2) Determination of amount contributed.--Non-Federal 
        contributions required under paragraph (1) may be in cash or in 
        kind. Amounts provided by the Federal Government, or services 
        assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal 
        Government, may not be included in determining the amount of 
        such non-Federal contributions.
            ``(3) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the application of 
        paragraph (1) with respect to an institution of higher 
        education if the Secretary determines that extraordinary need 
        at the institution justifies the waiver.
    ``(g) Reports.--For each fiscal year that grants are awarded under 
this section, the Secretary shall conduct a study on the results of the 
grants and submit to the Congress a report on such results that 
includes the following:
            ``(1) An evaluation of the grant program outcomes, 
        including a summary of activities carried out with the grant 
        and the results achieved through those activities.
            ``(2) Recommendations on how to improve access to mental 
        health and substance use disorder services at institutions of 
        higher education, including efforts to reduce the incidence of 
        suicide and substance use disorders.
    ``(h) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) The term `evidence-based' has the meaning given to 
        such term in section 2 of the Helping Families in Mental Health 
        Crisis Act of 2015.
            ``(2) The term `institution of higher education' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education 
        Act of 1965.
    ``(i) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $4,975,000 
for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2020.''.
            (5) Suicide lifeline.--Subpart 3 of part B of title V of 
        the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting after 
        section 520E-2 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36b), as amended, 
        the following:

``SEC. 520E-3. NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain the National 
Suicide Prevention Lifeline program, including by--
            ``(1) coordinating a network of crisis centers across the 
        United States for providing suicide prevention and crisis 
        intervention services to individuals seeking help at any time, 
        day or night;
            ``(2) maintaining a suicide prevention hotline to link 
        callers to local emergency, mental health, and social services 
        resources; and
            ``(3) consulting with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
        ensure that veterans calling the suicide prevention hotline 
        have access to a specialized veterans' suicide prevention 
        hotline.
    ``(b) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $8,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2020.''.

  TITLE III--INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE

SEC. 301. INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act, as amended by section 
101, is further amended by inserting after section 501 of such Act the 
following:

``SEC. 501A. INTERAGENCY SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING COMMITTEE.

    ``(a) Establishment.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
Substance Use Disorders (in this section referred to as the `Assistant 
Secretary') shall establish a committee, to be known as the Interagency 
Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee (in this section referred 
to as the `Committee'), to assist the Assistant Secretary in carrying 
out the Assistant Secretary's duties.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Committee shall--
            ``(1) develop and annually update a summary of advances in 
        serious mental illness research related to causes, prevention, 
        treatment, early screening, diagnosis or rule out, 
        intervention, and access to services and supports for 
        individuals with serious mental illness;
            ``(2) monitor Federal activities with respect to serious 
        mental illness;
            ``(3) make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary 
        regarding any appropriate changes to such activities, including 
        recommendations to the Director of NIH with respect to the 
        strategic plan developed under paragraph (5);
            ``(4) make recommendations to the Assistant Secretary 
        regarding public participation in decisions relating to serious 
        mental illness;
            ``(5) develop and annually update a strategic plan for 
        advancing--
                    ``(A) public utilization of effective mental health 
                services; and
                    ``(B) compliance with treatment;
            ``(6) develop and annually update a strategic plan for the 
        conduct of, and support for, serious mental illness research, 
        including proposed budgetary requirements; and
            ``(7) submit to the Congress such strategic plan and any 
        updates to such plan.
    ``(c) Membership.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Committee shall be composed of--
                    ``(A) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
                Substance Use Disorders (or the Assistant Secretary's 
                designee), who shall serve as the Chair of the 
                Committee;
                    ``(B) the Director of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health (or the Director's designee);
                    ``(C) the Attorney General of the United States (or 
                the Attorney General's designee);
                    ``(D) the Director of the Centers for Disease 
                Control and Prevention (or the Director's designee);
                    ``(E) the Director of the National Institutes of 
                Health (or the Director's designee);
                    ``(F) the directors of such national research 
                institutes of the National Institutes of Health as the 
                Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use 
                Disorders determines appropriate (or their designees);
                    ``(G) a member of the United States Interagency 
                Council on Homelessness;
                    ``(H) representatives, appointed by the Assistant 
                Secretary, of Federal agencies that are outside of the 
                Department of Health and Human Services and serve 
                individuals with serious mental illness, including 
                representatives of the Bureau of Indian Affairs, the 
                Department of Defense, the Department of Education, the 
                Department of Housing and Urban Development, the 
                Department of Labor, the Department of Veterans 
                Affairs, and the Social Security Administration;
                    ``(I) 4 members, of which--
                            ``(i) 1 shall be appointed by the Speaker 
                        of the House of Representatives;
                            ``(ii) 1 shall be appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the House of Representatives;
                            ``(iii) 1 shall be appointed by the 
                        majority leader of the Senate; and
                            ``(iv) 1 shall be appointed by the minority 
                        leader of the Senate; and
                    ``(J) the additional members appointed under 
                paragraph (2).
            ``(2) Additional members.--Not fewer than 14 members of the 
        Committee, or \1/3\ of the total membership of the Committee, 
        whichever is greater, shall be composed of non-Federal public 
        members to be appointed by the Assistant Secretary, of which--
                    ``(A) at least one such member shall be an 
                individual in recovery from a diagnosis of serious 
                mental illness who has benefitted from and is receiving 
                medical treatment under the care of a licensed mental 
                health professional;
                    ``(B) at least one such member shall be a parent or 
                legal guardian of an individual with a history of 
                serious mental illness who has either attempted suicide 
                or is incarcerated for violence committed while 
                experiencing a serious mental illness;
                    ``(C) at least one such member shall be a 
                representative of a leading research, advocacy, and 
                service organization for individuals with serious 
                mental illness;
                    ``(D) at least one such member shall be--
                            ``(i) a licensed psychiatrist with 
                        experience treating serious mental illness; or
                            ``(ii) a licensed clinical psychologist 
                        with experience treating serious mental 
                        illness;
                    ``(E) at least one member shall be a licensed 
                mental health counselor or psychotherapist;
                    ``(F) at least one member shall be a licensed 
                clinical social worker;
                    ``(G) at least one member shall be a licensed 
                psychiatric nurse or nurse practitioner;
                    ``(H) at least one member shall be a mental health 
                professional with a significant focus in his or her 
                practice working with children and adolescents;
                    ``(I) at least one member shall be a mental health 
                professional who spends a significant concentration of 
                his or her professional time or leadership practicing 
                community mental health;
                    ``(J) at least one member shall be a mental health 
                professional with substantial experience working with 
                mentally ill individuals who have a history of violence 
                or suicide;
                    ``(K) at least one such member shall be a State 
                certified mental health peer specialist;
                    ``(L) at least one member shall be a judge with 
                experiences applying assisted outpatient treatment;
                    ``(M) at least one member shall be a law 
                enforcement officer with extensive experience in 
                interfacing with psychiatric and psychological 
                disorders or individuals in mental health crisis; and
                    ``(N) at least one member shall be a corrections 
                officer.
    ``(d) Reports to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and every 2 years thereafter, the Committee 
shall submit a report to the Congress--
            ``(1) analyzing the efficiency, effectiveness, quality, 
        coordination, and cost effectiveness of Federal programs and 
        activities relating to the prevention of, or treatment or 
        rehabilitation for, mental health or substance use disorders, 
        including an accounting of the costs of such programs and 
        activities, with administrative costs disaggregated from the 
        costs of services and care provided;
            ``(2) evaluating the impact on public health of projects 
        addressing priority mental health needs of regional and 
        national significance under sections 501, 509, 516, and 520A 
        including measurement of public health outcomes such as--
                    ``(A) reduced rates of suicide, suicide attempts, 
                substance abuse, overdose, overdose deaths, emergency 
                hospitalizations, emergency room boarding, 
                incarceration, crime, arrest, victimization, 
                homelessness, and joblessness;
                    ``(B) increased rates of employment and enrollment 
                in educational and vocational programs; and
                    ``(C) such other criteria as may be determined by 
                the Assistant Secretary;
            ``(3) formulating recommendations for the coordination and 
        improvement of Federal programs and activities described in 
        paragraph (2);
            ``(4) identifying any such programs and activities that are 
        duplicative; and
            ``(5) summarizing all recommendations made, activities 
        carried out, and results achieved pursuant to the workforce 
        development strategy under section 501(b)(9) of the Public 
        Health Service Act, as amended by section 101.
    ``(e) Administrative Support; Terms of Service; Other Provisions.--
The following provisions shall apply with respect to the Committee:
            ``(1) The Assistant Secretary shall provide such 
        administrative support to the Committee as may be necessary for 
        the Committee to carry out its responsibilities.
            ``(2) Members of the Committee appointed under subsection 
        (c)(2) shall serve for a term of 4 years, and may be 
        reappointed for one or more additional 4-year terms. Any member 
        appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall be 
        appointed for the remainder of such term. A member may serve 
        after the expiration of the member's term until a successor has 
        taken office.
            ``(3) The Committee shall meet at the call of the chair or 
        upon the request of the Assistant Secretary. The Committee 
        shall meet not fewer than 2 times each year.
            ``(4) All meetings of the Committee shall be public and 
        shall include appropriate time periods for questions and 
        presentations by the public.
    ``(f) Subcommittees; Establishment and Membership.--In carrying out 
its functions, the Committee may establish subcommittees and convene 
workshops and conferences. Such subcommittees shall be composed of 
Committee members and may hold such meetings as are necessary to enable 
the subcommittees to carry out their duties.''.

                  TITLE IV--HIPAA AND FERPA CAREGIVERS

SEC. 401. PROMOTING APPROPRIATE TREATMENT FOR MENTALLY ILL INDIVIDUALS 
              BY TREATING THEIR CAREGIVERS AS PERSONAL REPRESENTATIVES 
              FOR PURPOSES OF HIPAA PRIVACY REGULATIONS.

    (a) Caregiver Access to Information.--In applying section 
164.502(g) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, to an individual 
with serious mental illness an exception for disclosure of specific 
limited protected health information shall be provided if all of the 
following criteria are met for the disclosure by a physician (as 
defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 1861(r) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(r))) or other licensed mental health or 
health care professional to an identified responsible caregiver:
            (1) Such disclosure is for information limited to the 
        diagnoses, treatment plans, appointment scheduling, 
        medications, and medication-related instructions, but not 
        including any personal psychotherapy notes.
            (2) Such disclosure is necessary to protect the health, 
        safety, or welfare of the individual or general public.
            (3) The information to be disclosed will be beneficial to 
        the treatment of the individual if that individual has a co-
        occurring acute or chronic medical illness.
            (4) The information to be disclosed is necessary for the 
        continuity of treatment of the medical condition or mental 
        illness of the individual.
            (5) The absence of such information or treatment will 
        contribute to a worsening prognosis or an acute medical 
        condition.
            (6) The individual by nature of the severe mental illness 
        has or has had a diminished capacity to fully understand or 
        follow a treatment plan for their medical condition or may 
        become gravely disabled in absence of treatment.
    (b) Training.--In applying section 164.530 of title 45, Code of 
Federal Regulations, the training described in paragraph (b)(1) of such 
section shall include training with respect to the disclosure of 
information to a caregiver of an individual pursuant to subsection (a).
    (c) Age of Majority.--In applying section 164.502(g) of title 45, 
Code of Federal Regulations, notwithstanding any other provision of 
law, an unemancipated minor shall be an individual under the age of 18 
years.
    (d) Provider Access to Information.--Health care providers may 
listen to information or review medical history provided by family 
members or other caregivers who may have concerns about the health and 
well-being of the patient, so the health care provider can factor that 
information into the patient's care.
    (e) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
            (1) Covered entity.--The term ``covered entity'' has the 
        meaning given such term in section 106.103 of title 45, Code of 
        Federal Regulations.
            (2) Protected health information.--The term ``protected 
        health information'' has the meaning given such term in section 
        106.103 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (3) Caregiver.--The term ``caregiver'' means, with respect 
        to an individual with a serious mental illness--
                    (A) an immediate family member of such individual;
                    (B) an individual who assumes primary 
                responsibility for providing a basic need of such 
                individual;
                    (C) a personal representative of the individual as 
                determined by the law of the State in which such 
                individual resides;
                    (D) can establish a longstanding involvement and is 
                responsible with the individual with a serious mental 
                illness and the health care of the individual; and
                    (E) excludes an individual with a documented 
                history of abuse.
            (4) Individual with a serious mental illness.--The term 
        ``individual with a serious mental illness'' means, with 
        respect to the disclosure to a caregiver of protected health 
        information of an individual, an individual who--
                    (A) is 18 years of age or older; and
                    (B) has, within one year before the date of the 
                disclosure, been evaluated, diagnosed, or treated for a 
                mental, behavioral, or emotional disorder that--
                            (i) is determined by a physician to be of 
                        sufficient duration to meet diagnostic criteria 
                        specified within the Diagnostic and Statistical 
                        Manual of Mental Disorders; and
                            (ii) results in functional impairment of 
                        the individual that substantially interferes 
                        with or limits one or more major life 
                        activities of the individual.
                Such term includes an individual with autism spectrum 
                disorder or other developmental disability if such 
                individual has a co-occurring mental illness.

SEC. 402. CAREGIVERS PERMITTED ACCESS TO CERTAIN EDUCATION RECORDS 
              UNDER FERPA.

    Section 444 of the General Education Provisions Act (20 U.S.C. 
1232g) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Disclosures to Caregivers.--
            ``(1) In general.--With respect to a student who is 18 
        years of age or older, an educational agency or institution may 
        disclose to the caregiver of the student, without regard to 
        whether the student has explicitly provided consent to the 
        agency or institution for the disclosure of the student's 
        education record, the education record of such student if a 
        physician (as defined in paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 
        1861(r) of the Social Security Act), psychologist, or other 
        recognized mental health professional or paraprofessional 
        acting in his or her professional or paraprofessional capacity, 
        or assisting in that capacity reasonably believes such 
        disclosure to the caregiver is necessary to protect the health, 
        safety, or welfare of such student or the safety of one or more 
        other individuals.
            ``(2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Caregiver.--The term `caregiver' means, with 
                respect to a student, a family member or immediate past 
                legal guardian who assumes a primary responsibility for 
                providing a basic need of such student (such as a 
                family member or past legal guardian of the student who 
                has assumed the responsibility of co-signing a loan 
                with the student).
                    ``(B) Education record.--Notwithstanding subsection 
                (a)(4)(B), the term `education record' shall include a 
                record described in clause (iv) of such subsection.''.

SEC. 403. CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.

    Section 543(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-
2(e)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; or''; and
            (3) after paragraph (2), by inserting the following:
            ``(3) within accountable care organizations described in 
        section 1899 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395jjj), 
        health information exchanges (as defined for purposes of 
        section 3013), health homes (as defined in section 1945(h)(3) 
        of such Act 42 U.S.C. 1396w-4(h)(3)), or other integrated care 
        arrangements (in existence before, on, or after the date of the 
        enactment of this paragraph) involving the interchange of 
        electronic health records (as defined in section 13400 of 
        division A of Public Law 111-5) (42 U.S.C. 17921(5)) containing 
        information described in subsection (a) for purposes of 
        attaining interoperability, improving care coordination, 
        reducing health care costs, and securing or providing patient 
        safety.''.

                 TITLE V--MEDICARE AND MEDICAID REFORMS

SEC. 501. ENHANCED MEDICAID COVERAGE RELATING TO CERTAIN MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES.

    (a) Medicaid Coverage of Mental Health Services and Primary Care 
Services Furnished on the Same Day.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1902(a) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396a(a)) is amended by inserting after paragraph 
        (77) the following new paragraph:
            ``(78) not prohibit payment under the plan for a mental 
        health service or primary care service furnished to an 
        individual at a community mental health center meeting the 
        criteria specified in section 1913(c) of the Public Health 
        Service Act or a federally qualified health center (as defined 
        in section 1861(aa)(3)) for which payment would otherwise be 
        payable under the plan, with respect to such individual, if 
        such service were not a same-day qualifying service (as defined 
        in subsection (ll));''.
            (2) Same-day qualifying services defined.--Section 1902 of 
        the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a) is amended by adding 
        at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(ll) Same-Day Qualifying Services Defined.--For purposes of 
subsection (a)(78), the term `same-day qualifying service' means--
            ``(1) a primary care service furnished to an individual by 
        a provider at a facility on the same day a mental health 
        service is furnished to such individual by such provider (or 
        another provider) at the facility; and
            ``(2) a mental health service furnished to an individual by 
        a provider at a facility on the same day a primary care service 
        is furnished to such individual by such provider (or another 
        provider) at the facility.''.
    (b) State Option To Provide Medical Assistance for Certain 
Inpatient Psychiatric Services to Nonelderly Adults.--Section 1905 of 
the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (16)--
                            (i) by striking ``effective'' and inserting 
                        ``(A) effective''; and
                            (ii) by inserting before the semicolon at 
                        the end the following: ``, (B) qualified 
                        inpatient psychiatric hospital services (as 
                        defined in subsection (h)(3)) for individuals 
                        over 21 years of age and under 65 years of age, 
                        and (C) psychiatric residential treatment 
                        facility services (as defined in subsection 
                        (h)(4)) for individuals over 21 years of age 
                        and under 65 years of age''; and
                    (B) in the subdivision (B) that follows paragraph 
                (29), by inserting ``(other than services described in 
                subparagraphs (B) and (C) of paragraph (16) for 
                individuals described in such subparagraphs)'' after 
                ``patient in an institution for mental diseases''; and
            (2) in subsection (h), by adding at the end the following 
        new paragraphs:
    ``(3) For purposes of subsection (a)(16)(B), the term `qualified 
inpatient psychiatric hospital services' means, with respect to 
individuals described in such subsection, services described in 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) that are furnished in an 
acute care psychiatric unit in a State-operated psychiatric hospital or 
a psychiatric hospital (as defined section 1861(f)) if such unit or 
hospital, as applicable, has a facilitywide average (determined on an 
annual basis) length of stay of less than 30 days.
    ``(4) For purposes of subsection (a)(16)(C), the term `psychiatric 
residential treatment facility services' means, with respect to 
individuals described in such subsection, services described in 
subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) that are furnished in a 
psychiatric residential treatment facility (as defined in section 
484.353 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on 
December 9, 2013).''.
    (c) Report.--
            (1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health 
        and Substance Use Disorders shall report on the impact of the 
        amendments made by subsection (b) on the funds made available 
        by States for inpatient psychiatric hospital care and for 
        community-based mental health services. Such study shall 
        include an assessment of each of the following:
                    (A) The amount of funds expended annually by States 
                on short-term, acute inpatient psychiatric hospital 
                care.
                    (B) The amount of funds expended annually on short-
                term, acute inpatient psychiatric hospital care through 
                disproportionate share hospital payments under section 
                1923 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-4).
                    (C) The reduction in the amount of funds described 
                in subparagraph (A) that is attributable to the 
                amendments made by subsection (b).
                    (D) The reduction in the amount of funds described 
                in subparagraph (B) that is attributable to the 
                amendment made by such subsection.
                    (E) The total amount of the reductions described in 
                subparagraphs (C) and (D).
            (2) Definition of short-term, acute inpatient psychiatric 
        hospital care.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the term 
        ``short-term, acute inpatient psychiatric hospital care'' means 
        care that is provided in either--
                    (A) an acute-care psychiatric unit with an average 
                annual length of stay of fewer than 30 days that is 
                operated within a psychiatric hospital operated by a 
                State; or
                    (B) a psychiatric hospital with an average annual 
                length of stay of fewer than 30 days.
            (3) Report.--Not later than two years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act, such Assistant Secretary shall submit a 
        report to Congress on the results of the study described in 
        paragraph (1), including recommendations with respect to 
        strategies that can be used to reinvest in community-based 
        mental health services funds equal to the total amount of the 
        reductions described in paragraph (1)(E).
    (d) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraphs (2) and (3), the 
        amendments made by this section shall apply to items and 
        services furnished after the first day of the first calendar 
        year that begins after the date of the enactment of this 
        section.
            (2) Certification of no increased spending.--The amendments 
        made by this section shall not be effective unless the Chief 
        Actuary of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
        certifies that the inclusion of qualified inpatient psychiatric 
        hospital services and psychiatric residential treatment 
        facility services (as those terms are defined in section 
        1905(h) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(h))) 
        furnished to nonelderly adults as medical assistance under 
        section 1905(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1396d(a)), as amended by subsection (a), would not result in 
        any increase in net program spending under title XIX of such 
        Act.
            (3) Exception for state legislation.--In the case of a 
        State plan under title XIX of the Social Security Act, which 
        the Secretary of Health and Human Services determines requires 
        State legislation in order for the respective plan to meet any 
        requirement imposed by amendments made by this section, the 
        respective plan shall not be regarded as failing to comply with 
        the requirements of such title solely on the basis of its 
        failure to meet such an additional requirement before the first 
        day of the first calendar quarter beginning after the close of 
        the first regular session of the State legislature that begins 
        after the date of enactment of this section. For purposes of 
        the previous sentence, in the case of a State that has a 2-year 
        legislative session, each year of the session shall be 
        considered to be a separate regular session of the State 
        legislature.

SEC. 502. ACCESS TO MENTAL HEALTH PRESCRIPTION DRUGS UNDER MEDICARE AND 
              MEDICAID.

    (a) Coverage of Prescription Drugs Used To Treat Mental Health 
Disorders Under Medicare.--Section 1860D-4(b)(3)(G) of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-104(b)(3)(G)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i)(I), by striking ``in the categories'' and 
        inserting ``in the categories and classes of drugs specified in 
        subclauses (II) and (IV) of clause (iv) and in other 
        categories'';
            (2) in clause (i)(II), by inserting ``, for categories and 
        classes of drugs other than the categories and classes of drugs 
        specified in subclauses (II) and (IV) of clause (iv),'' before 
        ``exceptions'';
            (3) in clause (ii)(I), by inserting at the end the 
        following new sentence: ``For purposes of the previous 
        sentence, the categories and classes of drugs specified in 
        subclauses (II) and (IV) of clause (iv) shall be deemed to be 
        of clinical concern.''; and
            (4) in clause (iv), in the matter preceding subclause (I), 
        by inserting ``(and in the case of categories and classes of 
        drugs specified in subclauses (II) and (IV), before, on, and 
        after the Secretary establishes such criteria)'' after ``clause 
        (ii)(II)''.
    (b) Coverage of Prescription Drugs Used To Treat Mental Health 
Disorders Under Medicaid.--
            (1) In general.--Section 1927(d) of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396r-8(d)) is amended by adding at the end the 
        following new paragraph:
            ``(8) Access to mental health drugs.--With respect to 
        covered outpatient drugs used for the treatment of a mental 
        health disorder, including major depression, bipolar (manic-
        depressive) disorder, panic disorder, obsessive-compulsive 
        disorder, schizophrenia, and schizoaffective disorder, a State 
        shall not exclude from coverage or otherwise restrict access to 
        such drugs other than pursuant to a prior authorization program 
        that is consistent with paragraph (5).''.
            (2) Medicaid managed care organizations.--Section 1932(b) 
        of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396u-2(b)) is amended by 
        adding at the end the following new paragraph:
            ``(9) Coverage of prescription drugs used to treat mental 
        health disorders.--Each contract with a managed care entity 
        under section 1903(m) or under section 1905(t)(3) shall require 
        coverage of all covered outpatient drugs used for the treatment 
        of a mental health disorder, in accordance with section 
        1927(d)(8).''.

SEC. 503. ELIMINATION OF 190-DAY LIFETIME LIMIT ON COVERAGE OF 
              INPATIENT PSYCHIATRIC HOSPITAL SERVICES UNDER MEDICARE.

    (a) In General.--Section 1812 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1395d) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by adding ``or'' at the end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``; or'' at the 
                end and inserting a period; and
                    (C) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``or in determining the 
        190-day limit under subsection (b)(3)''.
    (b) Effective Date; Certification of No Increased Spending.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), the amendments 
        made by subsection (a) shall apply to items and services 
        furnished on or after January 1, 2016.
            (2) Certification of no increased spending.--The amendments 
        made by subsection (a) shall not be effective unless the Chief 
        Actuary of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
        certifies that such amendments will not result in any increase 
        in net Federal expenditures under title XVIII of the Social 
        Security Act.

SEC. 504. MODIFICATIONS TO MEDICARE DISCHARGE PLANNING REQUIREMENTS.

    Section 1861(ee) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395x(ee)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and, in the case of a 
        psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric unit (as described in the 
        matter following clause (v) of section 1886(d)(1)(B)), if it 
        also meets the guidelines and standards established by the 
        Secretary under paragraph (3)'' before the period at the end; 
        and
            (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Secretary shall develop guidelines and standards, in 
addition to those developed under paragraph (2), for the discharge 
planning process of a psychiatric hospital or a psychiatric unit (as 
described in the matter following clause (v) of section 1886(d)(1)(B)) 
in order to ensure a timely and smooth transition to the most 
appropriate type of and setting for posthospital or rehabilitative 
care. The Secretary shall issue final regulations implementing such 
guidelines and standards not later than 24 months after the date of the 
enactment of this paragraph. The guidelines and standards shall include 
the following:
            ``(A) The hospital or unit must identify the types of 
        services needed upon discharge for the patients being treated 
        by the hospital or unit.
            ``(B) The hospital or unit must--
                    ``(i) identify organizations that offer community 
                services to the community that is served by the 
                hospital or unit and the types of services provided by 
                the organizations; and
                    ``(ii) must make demonstrated efforts to establish 
                connections, relationships, and partnerships with such 
                organizations.
            ``(C) The hospital or unit must arrange (with the 
        participation of the patient and of any other individuals 
        selected by the patient for such purpose) for the development 
        and implementation of a discharge plan for the patient as part 
        of the patient's overall treatment plan from admission to 
        discharge. Such discharge plan shall meet the requirements 
        described in subparagraphs (G) and (H) of paragraph (2).
            ``(D) The hospital or unit shall coordinate with the 
        patient (or assist the patient with) the referral for 
        posthospital or rehabilitative care and as part of that 
        referral the hospital or unit shall include transmitting to the 
        receiving organization, in a timely manner, appropriate 
        information about the care furnished to the patient by the 
        hospital or unit and recommendations for posthospital or 
        rehabilitative care to be furnished to the patient by the 
        organization.''.

SEC. 505. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES.

    Section 223 of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 
(Public Law 113-93; 128 Stat. 1077) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 223. DEMONSTRATION PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH 
              SERVICES.

    ``(a) Criteria for Certified Community Behavioral Health Clinics To 
Participate in Demonstration Programs.--
            ``(1) Publication.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the 
        Secretary shall publish criteria for a clinic to be certified 
        by a State as a certified community behavioral health clinic 
        for purposes of participating in a demonstration program 
        conducted under subsection (d).
            ``(2) Requirements.--The criteria published under this 
        subsection shall include criteria with respect to the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Staffing.--Staffing requirements, including 
                criteria that staff have diverse disciplinary 
                backgrounds, have necessary State-required license and 
                accreditation, and are culturally and linguistically 
                trained to serve the needs of the clinic's patient 
                population.
                    ``(B) Availability and accessibility of services.--
                Availability and accessibility of services, including 
                crisis management services that are available and 
                accessible 24 hours a day, the use of a sliding scale 
                for payment, and no rejection for services or limiting 
                of services on the basis of a patient's ability to pay 
                or a place of residence.
                    ``(C) Care coordination.--Care coordination, 
                including requirements to coordinate care across 
                settings and providers to ensure seamless transitions 
                for patients across the full spectrum of health 
                services including acute, chronic, and behavioral 
                health needs. Care coordination requirements shall 
                include partnerships or formal contracts with the 
                following:
                            ``(i) Federally-qualified health centers 
                        (and as applicable, rural health clinics) to 
                        provide Federally-qualified health center 
                        services (and as applicable, rural health 
                        clinic services) to the extent such services 
                        are not provided directly through the certified 
                        community behavioral health clinic.
                            ``(ii) Inpatient psychiatric facilities and 
                        substance use detoxification, post-
                        detoxification step-down services, and 
                        residential programs.
                            ``(iii) Other community or regional 
                        services, supports, and providers, including 
                        schools, child welfare agencies, juvenile and 
                        criminal justice agencies and facilities, 
                        Indian Health Service youth regional treatment 
                        centers, State-licensed and nationally 
                        accredited child placing agencies for 
                        therapeutic foster care service, and other 
                        social and human services.
                            ``(iv) Department of Veterans Affairs 
                        medical centers, independent outpatient 
                        clinics, drop-in centers, and other facilities 
                        of the Department as defined in section 1801 of 
                        title 38, United States Code.
                            ``(v) Inpatient acute care hospitals and 
                        hospital outpatient clinics.
                    ``(D) Scope of services.--Provision (in a manner 
                reflecting person-centered care) of the following 
                services which, if not available directly through the 
                certified community behavioral health clinic, are 
                provided or referred through formal relationships with 
                other providers:
                            ``(i) Crisis mental health services, 
                        including 24-hour mobile crisis teams, 
                        emergency crisis intervention services, and 
                        crisis stabilization.
                            ``(ii) Screening, assessment, and 
                        diagnosis, including risk assessment.
                            ``(iii) Patient-centered treatment planning 
                        or similar processes, including risk assessment 
                        and crisis planning.
                            ``(iv) Outpatient mental health and 
                        substance use services.
                            ``(v) Outpatient clinic primary care 
                        screening and monitoring of key health 
                        indicators and health risk.
                            ``(vi) Targeted case management.
                            ``(vii) Psychiatric rehabilitation 
                        services.
                            ``(viii) Peer support and counselor 
                        services and family supports.
                            ``(ix) Intensive, community-based mental 
                        health care for members of the Armed Forces and 
                        veterans, particularly those members and 
                        veterans located in rural areas, provided the 
                        care is consistent with minimum clinical mental 
                        health guidelines promulgated by the Veterans 
                        Health Administration including clinical 
                        guidelines contained in the Uniform Mental 
                        Health Services Handbook of such 
                        Administration.
                    ``(E) Quality and other reporting.--Reporting of 
                encounter data, clinical outcomes data, quality data, 
                and such other data as the Secretary requires.
                    ``(F) Organizational authority.--Criteria that a 
                clinic be a non-profit or part of a local government 
                behavioral health authority or operated under the 
                authority of the Indian Health Service, an Indian tribe 
                or tribal organization pursuant to a contract, grant, 
                cooperative agreement, or compact with the Indian 
                Health Service pursuant to the Indian Self-
                Determination Act (25 U.S.C. 450 et seq.), or an urban 
                Indian organization pursuant to a grant or contract 
                with the Indian Health Service under title V of the 
                Indian Health Care Improvement Act (25 U.S.C. 1601 et 
                seq.).
    ``(b) Guidance on Development of Prospective Payment System for 
Testing Under Demonstration Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2015, the 
        Secretary, through the Administrator of the Centers for 
        Medicare & Medicaid Services, shall issue guidance for the 
        establishment of a prospective payment system that shall only 
        apply to medical assistance for mental health services 
        furnished by a certified community behavioral health clinic 
        participating in a demonstration program under subsection (d).
            ``(2) Requirements.--The guidance issued by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1) shall provide that--
                    ``(A) no payment shall be made for inpatient care, 
                residential treatment, room and board expenses, or any 
                other nonambulatory services, as determined by the 
                Secretary; and
                    ``(B) no payment shall be made to satellite 
                facilities of certified community behavioral health 
                clinics if such facilities are established after the 
                date of enactment of this Act.
    ``(c) Planning Grants.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than January 1, 2016, the 
        Secretary shall award planning grants to States for the purpose 
        of developing proposals to participate in time-limited 
        demonstration programs described in subsection (d).
            ``(2) Use of funds.--A State awarded a planning grant under 
        this subsection shall--
                    ``(A) solicit input with respect to the development 
                of such a demonstration program from patients, 
                providers, and other stakeholders;
                    ``(B) certify clinics as certified community 
                behavioral health clinics for purposes of participating 
                in a demonstration program conducted under subsection 
                (d); and
                    ``(C) establish a prospective payment system for 
                mental health services furnished by a certified 
                community behavioral health clinic participating in a 
                demonstration program under subsection (d) in 
                accordance with the guidance issued under subsection 
                (b).
    ``(d) Demonstration Programs.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than September 1, 2017, the 
        Secretary shall select States to participate in demonstration 
        programs that are developed through planning grants awarded 
        under subsection (c), meet the requirements of this subsection, 
        and represent a diverse selection of geographic areas, 
        including rural and underserved areas.
            ``(2) Application requirements.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall solicit 
                applications to participate in demonstration programs 
                under this subsection solely from States awarded 
                planning grants under subsection (c).
                    ``(B) Required information.--An application for a 
                demonstration program under this subsection shall 
                include the following:
                            ``(i) The target Medicaid population to be 
                        served under the demonstration program.
                            ``(ii) A list of participating certified 
                        community behavioral health clinics.
                            ``(iii) Verification that the State has 
                        certified a participating clinic as a certified 
                        community behavioral health clinic in 
                        accordance with the requirements of subsection 
                        (b).
                            ``(iv) A description of the scope of the 
                        mental health services available under the 
                        State Medicaid program that will be paid for 
                        under the prospective payment system tested in 
                        the demonstration program.
                            ``(v) Verification that the State has 
                        agreed to pay for such services at the rate 
                        established under the prospective payment 
                        system.
                            ``(vi) Such other information as the 
                        Secretary may require relating to the 
                        demonstration program including with respect to 
                        determining the soundness of the proposed 
                        prospective payment system.
            ``(3) Number and length of demonstration programs.--Not 
        more than 10 States shall be selected for 4-year demonstration 
        programs under this subsection.
            ``(4) Requirements for selecting demonstration programs.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall give 
                preference to selecting demonstration programs where 
                participating certified community behavioral health 
                clinics--
                            ``(i) provide the most complete scope of 
                        services described in subsection (a)(2)(D) to 
                        individuals eligible for medical assistance 
                        under the State Medicaid program;
                            ``(ii) will improve availability of, access 
                        to, and participation in, services described in 
                        subsection (a)(2)(D) to individuals eligible 
                        for medical assistance under the State Medicaid 
                        program;
                            ``(iii) will improve availability of, 
                        access to, and participation in assisted 
                        outpatient mental health treatment in the 
                        State; or
                            ``(iv) demonstrate the potential to expand 
                        available mental health services in a 
                        demonstration area and increase the quality of 
                        such services without increasing net Federal 
                        spending.
            ``(5) Payment for medical assistance for mental health 
        services provided by certified community behavioral health 
        clinics.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary shall pay a State 
                participating in a demonstration program under this 
                subsection the Federal matching percentage specified in 
                subparagraph (B) for amounts expended by the State to 
                provide medical assistance for mental health services 
                described in the demonstration program application in 
                accordance with paragraph (2)(B)(iv) that are provided 
                by certified community behavioral health clinics to 
                individuals who are enrolled in the State Medicaid 
                program. Payments to States made under this paragraph 
                shall be considered to have been under, and are subject 
                to the requirements of, section 1903 of the Social 
                Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b).
                    ``(B) Federal matching percentage.--The Federal 
                matching percentage specified in this subparagraph is 
                with respect to medical assistance described in 
                subparagraph (A) that is furnished--
                            ``(i) to a newly eligible individual 
                        described in paragraph (2) of section 1905(y) 
                        of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        1396d(y)), the matching rate applicable under 
                        paragraph (1) of that section; and
                            ``(ii) to an individual who is not a newly 
                        eligible individual (as so described) but who 
                        is eligible for medical assistance under the 
                        State Medicaid program, the enhanced FMAP 
                        applicable to the State.
                    ``(C) Limitations.--
                            ``(i) In general.--Payments shall be made 
                        under this paragraph to a State only for mental 
                        health services--
                                    ``(I) that are described in the 
                                demonstration program application in 
                                accordance with paragraph (2)(B)(iv);
                                    ``(II) for which payment is 
                                available under the State Medicaid 
                                program; and
                                    ``(III) that are provided to an 
                                individual who is eligible for medical 
                                assistance under the State Medicaid 
                                program.
                            ``(ii) Prohibited payments.--No payment 
                        shall be made under this paragraph--
                                    ``(I) for inpatient care, 
                                residential treatment, room and board 
                                expenses, or any other nonambulatory 
                                services, as determined by the 
                                Secretary; or
                                    ``(II) with respect to payments 
                                made to satellite facilities of 
                                certified community behavioral health 
                                clinics if such facilities are 
                                established after the date of enactment 
                                of this Act.
            ``(6) Waiver of statewideness requirement.--The Secretary 
        shall waive section 1902(a)(1) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396a(a)(1)) (relating to statewideness) as may be 
        necessary to conduct demonstration programs in accordance with 
        the requirements of this subsection.
            ``(7) Annual reports.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date on which the first State is selected for a 
                demonstration program under this subsection, and 
                annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to 
                Congress an annual report on the use of funds provided 
                under all demonstration programs conducted under this 
                subsection. Each such report shall include--
                            ``(i) an assessment of access to community-
                        based mental health services under the Medicaid 
                        program in the area or areas of a State 
                        targeted by a demonstration program compared to 
                        other areas of the State;
                            ``(ii) an assessment of the quality and 
                        scope of services provided by certified 
                        community behavioral health clinics compared to 
                        community-based mental health services provided 
                        in States not participating in a demonstration 
                        program under this subsection and in areas of a 
                        demonstration State that are not participating 
                        in the demonstration program; and
                            ``(iii) an assessment of the impact of the 
                        demonstration programs on the Federal and State 
                        costs of a full range of mental health services 
                        (including inpatient, emergency and ambulatory 
                        services).
                    ``(B) Recommendations.--Not later than December 31, 
                2021, the Secretary shall submit to Congress 
                recommendations concerning whether the demonstration 
                programs under this section should be continued, 
                expanded, modified, or terminated.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Federally-qualified health center services; 
        federally-qualified health center; rural health clinic 
        services; rural health clinic.--The terms `Federally-qualified 
        health center services', `Federally-qualified health center', 
        `rural health clinic services', and `rural health clinic' have 
        the meanings given those terms in section 1905(l) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(l)).
            ``(2) Enhanced fmap.--The term `enhanced FMAP' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 2105(b) of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397dd(b)) but without regard to the 
        second and third sentences of that section.
            ``(3) Secretary.--The term `Secretary' means the Secretary 
        of Health and Human Services.
            ``(4) State.--The term `State' has the meaning given such 
        term for purposes of title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396 et seq.).
    ``(f) Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--Out of any funds in the Treasury not 
        otherwise appropriated, there is appropriated to the 
        Secretary--
                    ``(A) for purposes of carrying out subsections (a), 
                (b), and (d)(7), $2,000,000 for fiscal year 2014; and
                    ``(B) for purposes of awarding planning grants 
                under subsection (c), $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2016.
            ``(2) Availability.--Funds appropriated under paragraph (1) 
        shall remain available until expended.''.

       TITLE VI--RESEARCH BY NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF MENTAL HEALTH

SEC. 601. INCREASE IN FUNDING FOR CERTAIN RESEARCH.

    Section 402A(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
282a(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Funding for the brain initiative at the national 
        institute of mental health.--
                    ``(A) Funding.--In addition to amounts made 
                available pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2), there are 
                authorized to be appropriated to the National Institute 
                of Mental Health for the purpose described in 
                subparagraph (B)(ii) $40,000,000 for each of fiscal 
                years 2016 through 2020.
                    ``(B) Purposes.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to 
                subparagraph (A) shall be used exclusively for the 
                purpose of conducting or supporting--
                            ``(i) research on the determinants of self- 
                        and other directed-violence in mental illness, 
                        including studies directed at reducing the risk 
                        of self harm, suicide, and interpersonal 
                        violence; or
                            ``(ii) brain research through the Brain 
                        Research through Advancing Innovative 
                        Neurotechnologies Initiative.''.

          TITLE VII--BEHAVIORAL HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 701. EXTENSION OF HEALTH INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ASSISTANCE FOR 
              BEHAVIORAL AND MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE ABUSE.

    Section 3000(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
300jj(3)) is amended by inserting before ``and any other category'' the 
following: ``behavioral and mental health professionals (as defined in 
section 331(a)(3)(E)(i)), a substance abuse professional, a psychiatric 
hospital (as defined in section 1861(f) of the Social Security Act), a 
community mental health center meeting the criteria specified in 
section 1913(c), a residential or outpatient mental health or substance 
use treatment facility,''.

SEC. 702. EXTENSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID HEALTH 
              INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY IMPLEMENTATION ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Payment Incentives for Eligible Professionals Under Medicare.--
Section 1848 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-4) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)(7)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by adding at the end the 
                following new clause:
                            ``(iv) Additional eligible professional.--
                        The term `additional eligible professional' 
                        means a clinical psychologist providing 
                        qualified psychologist services (as defined in 
                        section 1861(ii)).''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                subparagraph:
                    ``(F) Application to additional eligible 
                professionals.--The Secretary shall apply the 
                provisions of this paragraph with respect to an 
                additional eligible professional in the same manner as 
                such provisions apply to an eligible professional, 
                except in applying subparagraph (A)--
                            ``(i) in clause (i), the reference to 2015 
                        shall be deemed a reference to 2020;
                            ``(ii) in clause (ii), the references to 
                        2015, 2016, and 2017 shall be deemed references 
                        to 2020, 2021, and 2022, respectively; and
                            ``(iii) in clause (iii), the reference to 
                        2018 shall be deemed a reference to 2023.''; 
                        and
            (2) in subsection (o)--
                    (A) in paragraph (5), by adding at the end the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(D) Additional eligible professional.--The term 
                `additional eligible professional' means a clinical 
                psychologist providing qualified psychologist services 
                (as defined in section 1861(ii)).''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(6) Application to additional eligible professionals.--
        The Secretary shall apply the provisions of this subsection 
        with respect to an additional eligible professional in the same 
        manner as such provisions apply to an eligible professional, 
        except in applying--
                    ``(A) paragraph (1)(A)(ii), the reference to 2016 
                shall be deemed a reference to 2021;
                    ``(B) paragraph (1)(B)(ii), the references to 2011 
                and 2012 shall be deemed references to 2016 and 2017, 
                respectively;
                    ``(C) paragraph (1)(B)(iii), the references to 2013 
                shall be deemed references to 2018;
                    ``(D) paragraph (1)(B)(v), the references to 2014 
                shall be deemed references to 2019; and
                    ``(E) paragraph (1)(E), the reference to 2011 shall 
                be deemed a reference to 2016.''.
    (b) Eligible Hospitals.--Section 1886 of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1395ww) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(3)(B)(ix), by adding at the end the 
        following new subclause:
                                    ``(V) The Secretary shall apply the 
                                provisions of this subsection with 
                                respect to an additional eligible 
                                hospital (as defined in subsection 
                                (n)(6)(C)) in the same manner as such 
                                provisions apply to an eligible 
                                hospital, except in applying--
                                            ``(aa) subclause (I), the 
                                        references to 2015, 2016, and 
                                        2017 shall be deemed references 
                                        to 2020, 2021, and 2022, 
                                        respectively; and
                                            ``(bb) subclause (III), the 
                                        reference to 2015 shall be 
                                        deemed a reference to 2020.''; 
                                        and
            (2) in subsection (n)--
                    (A) in paragraph (6), by adding at the end the 
                following new subparagraph:
                    ``(C) Additional eligible hospital.--The term 
                `additional eligible hospital' means an inpatient 
                hospital that is a psychiatric hospital (as defined in 
                section 1861(f)).''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(7) Application to additional eligible hospitals.--The 
        Secretary shall apply the provisions of this subsection with 
        respect to an additional eligible hospital in the same manner 
        as such provisions apply to an eligible hospital, except in 
        applying--
                    ``(A) paragraph (2)(E)(ii), the references to 2013 
                and 2015 shall be deemed references to 2018 and 2020, 
                respectively; and
                    ``(B) paragraph (2)(G)(i), the reference to 2011 
                shall be deemed a reference to 2016.''.
    (c) Medicaid Providers.--Section 1903(t) of the Social Security Act 
(42 U.S.C. 1396b(t)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (i), by striking ``, or'' at the end 
                and inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in clause (ii), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (C) by inserting after clause (ii) the following 
                new clauses:
                    ``(iii) a public hospital that is principally a 
                psychiatric hospital (as defined in section 1861(f));
                    ``(iv) a private hospital that is principally a 
                psychiatric hospital (as defined in section 1861(f)) 
                and that has at least 10 percent of its patient volume 
                (as estimated in accordance with a methodology 
                established by the Secretary) attributable to 
                individuals receiving medical assistance under this 
                title;
                    ``(v) a community mental health center meeting the 
                criteria specified in section 1913(c) of the Public 
                Health Service Act; or
                    ``(vi) a residential or outpatient mental health or 
                substance use treatment facility that--
                            ``(I) is accredited by the Joint Commission 
                        on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations, 
                        the Commission on Accreditation of 
                        Rehabilitation Facilities, the Council on 
                        Accreditation, or any other national 
                        accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary; 
                        and
                            ``(II) has at least 10 percent of its 
                        patient volume (as estimated in accordance with 
                        a methodology established by the Secretary) 
                        attributable to individuals receiving medical 
                        assistance under this title.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3)(B)--
                    (A) in clause (iv), by striking ``; and'' at the 
                end and inserting a semicolon;
                    (B) in clause (v), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                    ``(vi) clinical psychologist providing qualified 
                psychologist services (as defined in section 1861(ii)), 
                if such clinical psychologist is practicing in an 
                outpatient clinic that--
                            ``(I) is led by a clinical psychologist; 
                        and
                            ``(II) is not otherwise receiving payment 
                        under paragraph (1) as a Medicaid provider 
                        described in paragraph (2)(B).''.
    (d) Medicare Advantage Organizations.--Section 1853 of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1395w-23) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (l)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or additional eligible 
                        professionals (as described in paragraph (9))'' 
                        after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and additional eligible 
                        professionals'' before ``under such sections'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(B)--
                            (i) in clause (i) in the matter preceding 
                        subclause (I), by inserting ``or an additional 
                        eligible professional described in paragraph 
                        (9)'' after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subclause (I), by inserting ``or an 
                                additional eligible professional 
                                described in paragraph (9)'' after 
                                ``paragraph (2)''; and
                                    (II) in subclause (I), by inserting 
                                ``or an additional eligible 
                                professional, respectively,'' after 
                                ``eligible professional'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(C), by inserting ``and 
                additional eligible professionals'' after ``all 
                eligible professionals'';
                    (D) in paragraph (4)(D), by adding at the end the 
                following new sentence: ``In the case that a qualifying 
                MA organization attests that not all additional 
                eligible professionals of the organization are 
                meaningful EHR users with respect to an applicable 
                year, the Secretary shall apply the payment adjustment 
                under this paragraph based on the proportion of all 
                such additional eligible professionals of the 
                organization that are not meaningful EHR users for such 
                year.'';
                    (E) in paragraph (6)(A), by inserting ``and, as 
                applicable, each additional eligible professional 
                described in paragraph (9)'' after ``paragraph (2)'';
                    (F) in paragraph (6)(B), by inserting ``and, as 
                applicable, each additional eligible hospital described 
                in paragraph (9)'' after ``subsection (m)(1)'';
                    (G) in paragraph (7)(A), by inserting ``and, as 
                applicable, additional eligible professionals'' after 
                ``eligible professionals'';
                    (H) in paragraph (7)(B), by inserting ``and, as 
                applicable, additional eligible professionals'' after 
                ``eligible professionals'';
                    (I) in paragraph (8)(B), by inserting ``and 
                additional eligible professionals described in 
                paragraph (9)'' after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                    (J) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(9) Additional eligible professional described.--With 
        respect to a qualifying MA organization, an additional eligible 
        professional described in this paragraph is an additional 
        eligible professional (as defined for purposes of section 
        1848(o)) who--
                    ``(A)(i) is employed by the organization; or
                    ``(ii)(I) is employed by, or is a partner of, an 
                entity that through contract with the organization 
                furnishes at least 80 percent of the entity's Medicare 
                patient care services to enrollees of such 
                organization; and
                    ``(II) furnishes at least 80 percent of the 
                professional services of the additional eligible 
                professional covered under this title to enrollees of 
                the organization; and
                    ``(B) furnishes, on average, at least 20 hours per 
                week of patient care services.''; and
            (2) in subsection (m)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by inserting ``or additional eligible 
                        hospitals (as described in paragraph (7))'' 
                        after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``and additional eligible 
                        hospitals'' before ``under such sections'';
                    (B) in paragraph (3)(A)(i), by inserting ``or 
                additional eligible hospital'' after ``eligible 
                hospital'';
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(A)(ii), by inserting ``or an 
                additional eligible hospital'' after ``eligible 
                hospital'' in each place it occurs;
                    (D) in paragraph (3)(B)--
                            (i) in clause (i), by inserting ``or an 
                        additional eligible hospital described in 
                        paragraph (7)'' after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                            (ii) in clause (ii)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding 
                                subclause (I), by inserting ``or an 
                                additional eligible hospital described 
                                in paragraph (7)'' after ``paragraph 
                                (2)''; and
                                    (II) in subclause (I), by inserting 
                                ``or an additional eligible hospital, 
                                respectively,'' after ``eligible 
                                hospital'';
                    (E) in paragraph (4)(A), by inserting ``or one or 
                more additional eligible hospitals (as defined in 
                section 1886(n)), as appropriate,'' after ``section 
                1886(n)(6)(A))'';
                    (F) in paragraph (4)(D), by adding at the end the 
                following new sentence: ``In the case that a qualifying 
                MA organization attests that not all additional 
                eligible hospitals of the organization are meaningful 
                EHR users with respect to an applicable period, the 
                Secretary shall apply the payment adjustment under this 
                paragraph based on the methodology specified by the 
                Secretary, taking into account the proportion of such 
                additional eligible hospitals, or discharges from such 
                hospitals, that are not meaningful EHR users for such 
                period.'';
                    (G) in paragraph (5)(A), by inserting ``and, as 
                applicable, each additional eligible hospital described 
                in paragraph (7)'' after ``paragraph (2)'';
                    (H) in paragraph (5)(B), by inserting ``and 
                additional eligible hospitals, as applicable,'' after 
                ``eligible hospitals'';
                    (I) in paragraph (6)(B), by inserting ``and 
                additional eligible hospitals described in paragraph 
                (7)'' after ``paragraph (2)''; and
                    (J) by adding at the end the following new 
                paragraph:
            ``(7) Additional eligible hospital described.--With respect 
        to a qualifying MA organization, an additional eligible 
        hospital described in this paragraph is an additional eligible 
        hospital (as defined in section 1886(n)(6)(C)) that is under 
        common corporate governance with such organization and serves 
        individuals enrolled under an MA plan offered by such 
        organization.''.

             TITLE VIII--SAMHSA REAUTHORIZATION AND REFORMS

            Subtitle A--Organization and General Authorities

SEC. 801. IN GENERAL.

    Section 501 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (h), by inserting at the end the 
        following: ``For any such peer-review group reviewing a 
        proposal or grant related to mental illness, no fewer than half 
        of the members of the group shall have a medical degree, or a 
        corresponding doctoral degree in psychology and clinical 
        experience.''; and
            (2) in subsection (l)--
                    (A) in paragraph (2), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in paragraph (3), by striking the period at the 
                end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(4) At least 60 days before awarding a grant, cooperative 
        agreement, or contract, the Assistant Secretary shall give 
        written notice of the award to the Committee on Energy and 
        Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
        Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.''.

SEC. 802. ADVISORY COUNCILS.

    Paragraph (3) of section 502(b) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290aa-1(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) No fewer than half of the members of an 
                advisory council shall be mental health care providers 
                with--
                            ``(i) experience in mental health research 
                        or treatment; and
                            ``(ii) expertise in the fields on which 
                        they are advising.
                    ``(D) None of the appointed members may have at any 
                point been a recipient of any grant, or participated in 
                any program, about which the members are to advise.
                    ``(E) None of the appointed members may be related 
                to anyone who has been a recipient of any grant, or 
                participated in any program, about which the members 
                are to advise.
                    ``(F) None of the appointed members may have a 
                financial interest in any grant or program with respect 
                to which they advise, or receive funding separately 
                through the Office of Assistant Secretary.
                    ``(G) Each advisory committee must include at least 
                one member of the National Institute of Mental Health 
                and one member from any Federal agency that has a 
                program serving a similar population.''.

SEC. 803. PEER REVIEW.

    Section 504 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-3) is 
amended--
            (1) by adding at the end of subsection (b) the following: 
        ``At least half of the members of any peer-review group 
        established under subsection (a) shall have a degree in 
        medicine, or a corresponding doctoral degree in psychology, or 
        be a licensed mental health professional. Before awarding a 
        grant, cooperative agreement, or contract, the Secretary shall 
        provide a list of the members of the peer-review group 
        responsible for reviewing the award to the Committee on Energy 
        and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
        on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Scientific Controls and Standards.--Peer review under this 
section shall ensure that any research concerning an intervention is 
based on scientific controls and standards indicating whether the 
intervention reduces symptoms, improves medical or behavioral outcomes, 
and improves social functioning.''.

Subtitle B--Protection and Advocacy for Individuals With Mental Illness

SEC. 811. PROHIBITION AGAINST LOBBYING BY SYSTEMS ACCEPTING FEDERAL 
              FUNDS TO PROTECT AND ADVOCATE THE RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS 
              WITH MENTAL ILLNESS.

    Section 105(a) of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (10), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) agree to refrain, during any period for which 
        funding is provided to the system under this part, from--
                    ``(A) lobbying or retaining a lobbyist for the 
                purpose of influencing a Federal, State, or local 
                governmental entity or officer; and
                    ``(B) counseling an individual with a serious 
                mental illness who lacks insight into their condition 
                on refusing medical treatment or acting against the 
                wishes of such individual's caregiver;''.

SEC. 812. ENSURING THAT CAREGIVERS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL 
              ILLNESS HAVE ACCESS TO THE PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION 
              OF SUCH INDIVIDUALS.

    Section 105(a) of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805(a)), as amended by section 811, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(12) ensure that caregivers (as defined in section 201 of 
        the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2015) of 
        individuals with serious mental illness (as defined in such 
        section 201) have access to the protected health information of 
        such individuals consistent with such section 201;''.

SEC. 813. PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY ACTIVITIES TO FOCUS EXCLUSIVELY ON 
              SAFEGUARDING RIGHTS TO BE FREE FROM ABUSE AND NEGLECT.

    (a) Purposes.--Section 101(b) of the Protection and Advocacy for 
Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10801(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``to be free from abuse 
        and neglect'' before ``are protected''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``to be free from 
        abuse and neglect'' before ``through activities to ensure''.
    (b) Allotments.--Section 103(2)(A) of the Protection and Advocacy 
for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10803(2)(A)) is 
amended by inserting ``to be free from abuse and neglect'' before the 
semicolon.
    (c) Use of Allotments.--Section 104(a)(1) of the Protection and 
Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 
10804(a)(1)) is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the semicolon at the 
        end and inserting ``to be free from abuse and neglect; and''; 
        and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) the protection and advocacy activities of 
                such an agency or organization shall be exclusively 
                focused on safeguarding the rights of individuals with 
                mental illness to be free from abuse and neglect.''.
    (d) System Requirements.--Section 105 of the Protection and 
Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805), as 
amended by sections 811 and 812, is further amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in the matter before paragraph (1), by 
                inserting ``to be free from abuse and neglect'' before 
                ``shall'';
                    (B) in paragraph (6)(A), by inserting ``to be free 
                from abuse and neglect'' before the semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(13) be exclusively focused on safeguarding the rights of 
        individuals with mental illness to be free from abuse and 
        neglect; and''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)(1)(A), by inserting ``to be free from 
        abuse and neglect'' before ``shall have a governing 
        authority''.
    (e) Applications.--Section 111(a) of the Protection and Advocacy 
for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10821(a)) is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``to be free from abuse 
        and neglect'' before the semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
            (4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) assurances that such system, and any State agency or 
        nonprofit organization with which such system may enter into a 
        contract under section 10804(a), will be exclusively focused on 
        safeguarding the rights of individuals with mental illness to 
        be free from abuse and neglect; and''.
    (f) Reports by Secretary.--Section 114(a) of the Protection and 
Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10824(a)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) in the matter before subparagraph (A), 
        by inserting ``to be free from abuse and neglect'' before 
        ``supported with payments'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by inserting ``to be free from 
        abuse and neglect'' before ``supported with payments''; and
            (3) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``to be free from abuse 
        and neglect'' before ``and a description''.

SEC. 814. REPORTING.

    (a) Public Availability of Reports.--Section 105(a)(7) of the 
Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 
U.S.C. 10805(a)(7)) is amended by striking ``is located a report'' and 
inserting ``is located, and make publicly available, a report''.
    (b) Detailed Accounting.--Section 114(a) of the Protection and 
Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10824(a)), 
as amended, is further amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) a detailed accounting, for each system funded under 
        this title, of how funds are spent, disaggregated according to 
        whether the funds were received from the Federal Government, 
        the State government, a local government, or a private 
        entity.''.

SEC. 815. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.

    Section 105 of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805), as amended, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Grievance Procedure.--The Assistant Secretary shall establish 
an independent grievance procedure for the types of claims to be 
adjudicated, at the request of persons described in subsection (a)(9), 
through a system's grievance procedure established under such 
subsection.''.

SEC. 816. EVIDENCE-BASED TREATMENT FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL 
              ILLNESS.

    Section 105(a) of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805(a)), as amended by sections 811, 
812, and 813, is further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(14) ensure that individuals with serious mental illness 
        have access to and can obtain evidence-based treatment for 
        their serious mental illness.''.

                          TITLE IX--REPORTING

SEC. 901. GAO STUDY ON PREVENTING DISCRIMINATORY COVERAGE LIMITATIONS 
              FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS AND SUBSTANCE 
              USE DISORDERS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with the 
Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders, the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the 
Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to Congress a report detailing 
the extent to which covered group health plans (or health insurance 
coverage offered in connection with such plans), including Medicaid 
managed care plans under section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396b), comply with the Paul Wellstone and Pete Domenici Mental 
Health Parity and Addiction Equity Act of 2008 (subtitle B of title V 
of division C of Public Law 110-343) (in this section referred to as 
the ``law''), including--
            (1) how nonquantitative treatment limitations, including 
        medical necessity criteria, of covered group health plans 
        comply with the law;
            (2) how the responsible Federal departments and agencies 
        ensure that plans comply with the law; and
            (3) how proper enforcement, education, and coordination 
        activities within responsible Federal departments and agencies 
        can be used to ensure full compliance with the law, including 
        educational activities directed to State insurance 
        commissioners.
                                 <all>
