[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 121 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 121

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     February 25, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 529) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to improve 529 plans. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. The amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the 
Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the bill shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5) to support State and local accountability for public education, 
protect State and local authority, inform parents of the performance of their 
children's schools, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall 
be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Education and the Workforce. After general debate, the 
Committee of the Whole shall rise without motion. No further consideration of 
the bill shall be in order except pursuant to a subsequent order of the House.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported through the 
legislative day of March 2, 2015, relating to a measure making or continuing 
appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2015.
    Sec. 4.  It shall be in order at any time through the calendar day of March 
1, 2015, for the Speaker to entertain motions that the House suspend the rules 
as though under clause 1 of rule XV, relating to a measure making or continuing 
appropriations for the Department of Homeland Security for the fiscal year 
ending September 30, 2015.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
