[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6227 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 6227

     To provide for a comprehensive interdisciplinary research and 
 development initiative to strengthen the capacity of the electricity 
                  sector to neutralize cyber attacks.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           September 28, 2016

     Mr. Bera (for himself and Ms. Eddie Bernice Johnson of Texas) 
 introduced the following bill; which was referred to the Committee on 
 Science, Space, and Technology, and in addition to the Committees on 
    Homeland Security, and Energy and Commerce, for a period to be 
subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for consideration 
  of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the committee 
                               concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
     To provide for a comprehensive interdisciplinary research and 
 development initiative to strengthen the capacity of the electricity 
                  sector to neutralize cyber attacks.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Grid Cybersecurity Research and 
Development Act''.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) The Nation, and every other critical infrastructure 
        sector, depends on reliable electricity.
            (2) Industrial control systems used in the electricity 
        sector are essential to maintain reliable operations of the 
        electric grid.
            (3) The cybersecurity threat landscape is constantly 
        changing and attacker capabilities are advancing rapidly, 
        requiring ongoing modifications, advancements, and investments 
        in technologies and procedures to maintain security.
            (4) There are substantial and important differences between 
        cybersecurity approaches needed to protect information 
        technology systems and industrial control systems.
            (5) It is in the national interest for Federal agencies to 
        invest in industrial control system cybersecurity research that 
        facilitates private sector investment and the ability of the 
        private sector to develop cybersecurity tools and products for 
        control systems.
            (6) The number of elements connecting to the electric grid 
        is increasing, and designing cybersecurity into communication, 
        data, and control systems when they are built is more effective 
        than modifying products after installation to meet 
        cybersecurity goals.
            (7) An understanding of human factors can be leveraged to 
        understand the behavior of cyber threat actors, develop 
        strategies to counter threat actors, improve industrial control 
        system cybersecurity training programs, optimize the design of 
        human-machine interfaces and cybersecurity tools, and increase 
        the capacity of the electrical sector workforce to prevent 
        attacks from gaining entry to industrial control systems.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Critical electric infrastructure information.--The term 
        ``critical electric infrastructure information'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 215A(a)(3) of the Federal 
        Power Act (16 U.S.C. 824a-1(a)(3)).
            (2) Cybersecurity.--The term ``cybersecurity'' means a set 
        of preventative measures to protect information from a digital 
        device or system, including a device or system used to manage 
        the electric grid, from being stolen, compromised, or used to 
        carry out an attack.
            (3) Electricity subsector coordinating council.--The term 
        ``Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council'' means the self-
        organized, self-governed council consisting of senior industry 
        representatives to serve as the principal liaison between the 
        Federal Government and the electric power sector and to carry 
        out the role of the Sector Coordinating Council as established 
        in the National Infrastructure Protection Plan for the 
        electricity subsector.
            (4) Energy sector government coordinating council.--The 
        term ``Energy Sector Government Coordinating Council'' means 
        the council consisting of representatives from relevant Federal 
        Government agencies to provide effective coordination of energy 
        sector efforts to ensure a secure, reliable, and resilient 
        energy infrastructure and to carry out the role of the 
        Government Coordinating Council as established in the National 
        Infrastructure Protection Plan for the energy sector.
            (5) Human factors research.--The term ``human factors 
        research'' means research on human performance in social and 
        physical environments, and on the integration of humans with 
        physical systems and computer hardware and software.
            (6) Human-machine interfaces.--The term ``human-machine 
        interfaces'' means technologies that present information to an 
        operator about the state of a process or system, or accept 
        human instructions to implement an action, including 
        visualization displays such as a graphical user interface.
            (7) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (8) Transient devices.--The term ``transient devices'' 
        means removable media, including floppy disks, compact disks, 
        USB flash drives, external hard drives, mobile devices, and 
        other devices that utilize wireless connections for limited 
        periods of time.

SEC. 4. ELECTRICITY SECTOR CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, AND 
              DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in coordination with appropriate 
Federal agencies, the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council, 
State, tribal, local, and territorial governments, private sector 
vendors, and other relevant stakeholders, shall carry out a research, 
development, and demonstration initiative to harden and mitigate the 
electric grid from the consequences of cyber attacks by increasing the 
cybersecurity capabilities of the electricity sector and accelerating 
the development of cybersecurity technologies and tools.
    (b) Department of Energy.--As part of the initiative described in 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall carry out activities to--
            (1) identify cybersecurity risks to the communication and 
        control systems within, and impacting, the electricity sector;
            (2) develop methods and tools to rapidly detect cyber 
        intruders and cyber incidents, including the use of data 
        analytics techniques to validate and verify system behavior 
        using multiple data streams reflecting the state of the system;
            (3) assess emerging energy technology cybersecurity 
        capabilities, and integrate cybersecurity features and 
        protocols into the design, development, and deployment of 
        emerging technologies, including renewable energy technologies;
            (4) develop secure industrial control system protocols and 
        identify vulnerabilities in existing protocols;
            (5) work with manufacturers to build or retrofit security 
        features and protocols into--
                    (A) communication and network systems and 
                management processes;
                    (B) industrial control and energy management system 
                devices, components, software, firmware, and hardware, 
                including distributed control and management systems 
                and building management systems;
                    (C) data storage systems and data management and 
                analysis processes;
                    (D) generation, transmission, distribution, and 
                energy storage technologies;
                    (E) automated and manually controlled devices and 
                equipment for monitoring or managing frequency, 
                voltage, and current;
                    (F) technologies used to synchronize time and 
                develop guidance for operational contingency plans when 
                time synchronization technologies are compromised;
                    (G) end user elements that connect to the grid, 
                including--
                            (i) meters, synchrophasors, and other 
                        sensors;
                            (ii) distribution automation technologies, 
                        smart inverters, and other grid control 
                        technologies;
                            (iii) distributed generation and energy 
                        storage technologies;
                            (iv) demand response technologies;
                            (v) home and building energy control 
                        systems;
                            (vi) electric and plug-in hybrid vehicles; 
                        and
                            (vii) other relevant devices, software, 
                        firmware, hardware, and distributed energy 
                        technologies; and
                    (H) the supply chain of electric grid management 
                system components;
            (6) improve the physical security of communication 
        technologies and industrial control systems, including remote 
        assets;
            (7) integrate human factors research into the design and 
        development of advanced tools and processes for dynamic 
        monitoring, detection, protection, mitigation, and response;
            (8) advance the capabilities and use of relevant 
        interdisciplinary mathematical and computer simulation modeling 
        and analysis methods;
            (9) evaluate and understand the potential consequences of 
        practices used to maintain the cybersecurity of information 
        technology systems on the cybersecurity of industrial control 
        systems;
            (10) increase access to and the capabilities of existing 
        cybersecurity test beds to simulate impacts of cyber attacks on 
        industrial control system devices, components, software, and 
        hardware; and
            (11) reduce the cost of implementing effective 
        cybersecurity technologies and tools in the electricity sector.
    (c) National Science Foundation.--The National Science Foundation 
shall--
            (1) support fundamental research to advance cybersecurity 
        applications, technologies, and tools for industrial control 
        systems, including incorporating interdisciplinary research 
        in--
                    (A) evolutionary systems, theories, mathematics, 
                and models;
                    (B) economic and financial theories, mathematics, 
                and models; and
                    (C) big data analytical methods, mathematics, 
                computer coding, and algorithms; and
            (2) support education and training for the industrial 
        control system cybersecurity workforce, including through the 
        Advanced Technological Education program, graduate research 
        fellowships, and other appropriate programs.
    (d) Department of Homeland Security Science and Technology 
Directorate.--The Science and Technology Directorate of the Department 
of Homeland Security, in collaboration with the Department of Energy, 
experts in the private sector with the necessary clearances, and other 
relevant stakeholders, shall assess existing cybersecurity technologies 
and tools used in the defense industry and--
            (1) identify technologies and tools that could be applied 
        to meeting evolving civilian energy sector cybersecurity needs;
            (2) develop a research strategy that incorporates human 
        factors research findings to guide the modification of defense 
        industry cybersecurity tools for use in the civilian sector;
            (3) develop a strategy to accelerate efforts to bring 
        modified defense industry cybersecurity tools to the civilian 
        market; and
            (4) carry out other activities the Secretary of Homeland 
        Security considers appropriate to meet the goals of this 
        subsection.

SEC. 5. TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND GUIDANCE DOCUMENTS FOR ELECTRICITY 
              SECTOR CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, in coordination with appropriate 
Federal agencies, the Electricity Subsector Coordinating Council, 
standards development organizations, State, tribal, local, and 
territorial governments, private sector vendors, and other relevant 
stakeholders, shall coordinate the development of guidance documents 
for research and demonstration activities to improve the cybersecurity 
capabilities of the electricity sector through participating agencies. 
As part of these activities, the Secretary shall--
            (1) facilitate stakeholder involvement to update--
                    (A) the Roadmap to Achieve Energy Delivery Systems 
                Cybersecurity (published in September 2011);
                    (B) the Cybersecurity Procurement Language for 
                Energy Delivery Systems (published by the Energy Sector 
                Control Systems Working Group in April 2014), including 
                developing guidance for--
                            (i) contracting with third parties to 
                        conduct vulnerability testing for industrial 
                        control systems;
                            (ii) contracting with third parties that 
                        will utilize transient devices to access 
                        industrial control or information technology 
                        systems; and
                            (iii) managing supply chain risks; and
                    (C) the Electricity Subsector Cybersecurity 
                Capability Maturity Model (published by the Department 
                of Energy in February 2014), including the development 
                of--
                            (i) metrics to measure changes in 
                        cybersecurity capabilities and assess the 
                        potential for metrics to drive unexpected 
                        behavioral changes that would reduce security; 
                        and
                            (ii) an analysis of incentive mechanisms 
                        and their potential to increase investments in 
                        cybersecurity;
            (2) develop voluntary guidance to improve forensic analyses 
        capabilities, including--
                    (A) developing standardized terminology and 
                monitoring processes;
                    (B) identifying minimum data needed; and
                    (C) utilizing human factors research to develop 
                more effective procedures for logging incident events; 
                and
            (3) work with the National Science Foundation, Department 
        of Homeland Security, National Institute of Standards and 
        Technology, and stakeholders to develop a mechanism to 
        anonymize, aggregate, and share the testing results from 
        cybersecurity industrial control system test beds to facilitate 
        technology improvements by public and private sector 
        researchers.
    (b) Critical Electric Infrastructure Information.--Information 
provided to Federal agencies for the purposes of carrying out 
subsection (a) shall be considered critical electric infrastructure 
information and provided the protections established in section 10.
    (c) Standards.--The Secretary, in collaboration with the Director 
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology and other 
appropriate Federal agencies, shall convene relevant stakeholders and 
facilitate the development of--
            (1) voluntary, consensus-based technical standards to 
        improve cybersecurity for--
                    (A) emerging energy technologies;
                    (B) distributed generation and storage 
                technologies, and other distributed energy resources;
                    (C) electric vehicles; and
                    (D) other technologies and devices that connect to 
                the electric grid that can affect voltage stability;
            (2) recommended cybersecurity features and requirements 
        that can be used by the private sector to design and build 
        interoperable cybersecurity features into--
                    (A) devices and components;
                    (B) software and hardware; and
                    (C) other technologies that connect to the electric 
                grid; and
            (3) voluntary standards for test beds and test bed 
        methodologies that will enable reproducible testing of 
        industrial control system devices, components, software, and 
        hardware across test beds.

SEC. 6. VULNERABILITY TESTING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO INCREASE 
              CYBERRESILIENCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) collaborate with electricity sector asset owners and 
        operators in the private sector, leveraging the research 
        facilities and expertise of the National Laboratories, to--
                    (A) utilize a range of methods, including voluntary 
                vulnerability testing and red team-blue team exercises, 
                to identify vulnerabilities in physical and cyber 
                systems;
                    (B) develop cybersecurity risk assessment tools and 
                provide confidential analyses and recommendations to 
                participating stakeholders;
                    (C) work with stakeholders to develop methods to 
                share anonymized and aggregated results in a format 
                that enables the electricity sector, researchers, and 
                the private sector to advance cybersecurity efforts, 
                technologies, and tools; and
                    (D) leverage the unique strengths and expertise of 
                the National Laboratories and Federal agencies;
            (2) collaborate with relevant stakeholders to--
                    (A) identify information, research, staff training, 
                and analysis tools needed to evaluate industrial 
                control system cybersecurity issues and challenges in 
                the electricity sector; and
                    (B) facilitate the sharing of information and the 
                development of tools identified under subparagraph (A);
            (3) collaborate with and support electricity sector trade 
        organizations and their research agencies to improve the 
        cybersecurity of industrial control systems used by members and 
        stakeholders; and
            (4) collaborate with tribal governments to--
                    (A) identify information, research, and analysis 
                tools needed by tribal governments to increase the 
                industrial control system cybersecurity of electricity 
                assets within their jurisdiction; and
                    (B) facilitate the sharing of information and the 
                development of tools needed to ensure the cybersecurity 
                of tribal electricity assets and systems.
    (b) Critical Electric Infrastructure Information.--Information 
provided to Federal agencies for the purposes of carrying out 
subsection (a)(1)(C) shall be considered critical electric 
infrastructure information and provided the protections established in 
section 10.

SEC. 7. EDUCATION AND WORKFORCE TRAINING RESEARCH AND STANDARDS.

    (a) Department of Energy.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) utilize human factors research and other methods to 
        identify core skills used by electricity sector industrial 
        control systems cybersecurity professionals; and
            (2) develop assessment methods and tools to identify 
        existing personnel that show competence in the core skills 
        identified under paragraph (1).
    (b) National Institute of Standards and Technology.--The Director 
of the National Institute of Standards and Technology shall--
            (1) develop voluntary, innovative industrial control 
        systems cybersecurity training and retraining standards, 
        lessons, and recommendations for the electricity sector that 
        minimize duplication of cybersecurity compliance training 
        programs; and
            (2) maintain a public database of industrial control 
        systems cybersecurity education, training, and certification 
        programs.

SEC. 8. INTERAGENCY COORDINATION AND STRATEGIC PLAN FOR ELECTRICITY 
              SECTOR CYBERSECURITY RESEARCH.

    (a) Duties.--The Energy Sector Government Coordinating Council 
shall--
            (1) review the most recent version of the Roadmap to 
        Achieve Energy Delivery Systems Cybersecurity and identify 
        crosscutting energy grid cybersecurity research needs and 
        opportunities for collaboration among Federal agencies and 
        between Federal agencies and other relevant stakeholders;
            (2) identify interdisciplinary research, technology, and 
        tools that can be applied to industrial control system 
        cybersecurity challenges in the electricity sector;
            (3) identify technology transfer opportunities to 
        accelerate the development and commercial application of novel 
        industrial control system cybersecurity technologies, systems, 
        and processes; and
            (4) develop a coordinated Interagency Strategic Plan to 
        advance cybersecurity capabilities for industrial control 
        systems used in the electricity sector that builds on the 
        Roadmap to Achieve Energy Delivery Systems in Cybersecurity.
    (b) Strategic Plan.--
            (1) Submittal.--The Interagency Strategic Plan developed 
        under subsection (a)(4) shall be submitted to Congress within 
        12 months after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Contents.--The Interagency Strategic Plan shall 
        include--
                    (A) an analysis of how existing cybersecurity 
                research efforts conducted by member agencies are 
                coordinated and can complement and advance the goals of 
                the Roadmap to Achieve Energy Delivery Systems 
                Cybersecurity;
                    (B) recommendations for prioritized research 
                efforts that could contribute to advancing the 
                cybersecurity of electricity sector industrial control 
                systems;
                    (C) a description of how existing and proposed 
                public and private sector research efforts address the 
                topics described in paragraph (3); and
                    (D) a description of needed support for workforce 
                training in this area.
            (3) Consideration.--In developing the Interagency Strategic 
        Plan, the Energy Sector Government Coordinating Council shall 
        consider--
                    (A) opportunities for human factors research to 
                improve the design and effectiveness of cybersecurity 
                devices, technologies, tools, processes, and training 
                programs;
                    (B) contributions of other disciplines to the 
                development of innovative cybersecurity protocols, 
                devices, components, technologies, and tools;
                    (C) opportunities for Small Business Innovation 
                Research (SBIR) and other technology transfer programs 
                to facilitate private sector development of industrial 
                control system cybersecurity protocols, devices, 
                components, technologies, and tools;
                    (D) broader applications of the work done by 
                relevant Federal agencies to advance the cybersecurity 
                of industrial control systems used by other sectors; 
                and
                    (E) activities called for in the Federal 
                cybersecurity research and development strategic plan 
                required by section 201(a)(1) of the Cybersecurity 
                Enhancement Act of 2014 (15 U.S.C. 7431(a)(1)).
    (c) Membership.--For the purposes of carrying out this section, the 
Energy Sector Government Coordinating Council shall include 
representatives from Federal agencies with expertise in industrial 
control systems cybersecurity, information technology cybersecurity, 
cyber physical systems, engineering, human factors research, human-
machine interfaces, high performance computing, big data and data 
analytics, or other disciplines considered appropriate by the Council 
Chair. The Chair shall consider including at least one employee 
designated by the head of each of the following agencies:
            (1) In the Department of Energy--
                    (A) the Office of Electricity Delivery and Energy 
                Reliability;
                    (B) the Office of Science's Advanced Scientific 
                Computing Research program;
                    (C) the Office of Small Business Innovation 
                Research/Small Business Technology Transfer programs;
                    (D) the Office of Technology Transitions; and
                    (E) other offices considered appropriate by the 
                Secretary.
            (2) The National Science Foundation.
            (3) The Department of Homeland Security's Science and 
        Technology Directorate.
            (4) The National Institute of Standards and Technology.
            (5) The National Aeronautics and Space Administration's 
        Human Research Program.
            (6) The Office of Science and Technology Policy.
            (7) The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.

SEC. 9. REPORTS TO CONGRESS.

    (a) Identification of Common Factors in Cyber Attacks.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary, in collaboration with the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, other appropriate Federal 
        agencies, and energy sector stakeholders, shall conduct a study 
        to analyze cyber attacks on electricity sector industrial 
        control systems and identify cost-effective opportunities to 
        improve cybersecurity.
            (2) Critical electric infrastructure information.--Incident 
        data provided to Federal agencies for the purposes of carrying 
        out this subsection shall be considered critical electric 
        infrastructure information and provided the protections 
        established in section 10.
            (3) Content.--The study shall--
                    (A) summarize cyber incident data provided to the 
                Secretary by relevant Federal agencies and energy 
                sector stakeholders;
                    (B) analyze processes, operational procedures, and 
                other factors common among cyber attacks;
                    (C) identify the points where human behavior played 
                a critical role in maintaining or compromising the 
                security of the system;
                    (D) recommend--
                            (i) changes to the design of devices, 
                        human-machine interfaces, technologies, and 
                        tools to optimize security that do not require 
                        a change in human behavior;
                            (ii) changes to processes or operational 
                        procedures that do not require a change in 
                        human behavior; and
                            (iii) training techniques to increase the 
                        capacity of employees to actively identify, 
                        prevent, or neutralize the impact of cyber 
                        attacks; and
                    (E) evaluate existing engineering and technical 
                design criteria and guidelines that incorporate human 
                factors research findings, and recommend criteria and 
                guidelines for industrial control system cybersecurity 
                tools that can be used to develop procurement guidance, 
                including guidance for alarms, displays, and layouts.
            (4) Consultation.--In conducting the study, the Secretary 
        shall consult with electricity sector stakeholders, 
        professionals with expertise in human factors research, private 
        sector industrial control system vendors, and other relevant 
        parties.
            (5) Report.--Not later than 24 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate a report on the results of the study, 
        including the findings of the Secretary on each of the items 
        described in paragraph (3).
    (b) Balancing Risks, Security, and Modernization of Industrial 
Systems.--
            (1) Study.--The Secretary, in collaboration with the 
        National Institute of Standards and Technology, other Federal 
        agencies, and electricity sector stakeholders, shall examine 
        the risks associated with increasing penetration of digital 
        technologies in operational networks.
            (2) Content.--The study shall--
                    (A) evaluate the relative qualitative risks and 
                benefits of various design and architecture options for 
                electricity sector industrial control systems, 
                including consideration of--
                            (i) designs that include both digital and 
                        analog control devices and technologies;
                            (ii) different communication technologies 
                        used to move information and data between 
                        control system devices, technologies, and 
                        system operators;
                            (iii) automated and human-in-the-loop 
                        devices and technologies;
                            (iv) programmable versus nonprogrammable 
                        devices and technologies; and
                            (v) increased redundancy using dissimilar 
                        cybersecurity technologies;
                    (B) recommend methods or metrics to document 
                changes in risks associated with system designs and 
                architectures;
                    (C) provide recommendations for research, 
                development, demonstration, and commercial application 
                activities to address issues raised in subparagraphs 
                (A) and (B); and
                    (D) recommend guidance to minimize overall system 
                risks.
            (3) Consultation.--In conducting the study, the Secretary 
        shall consult with electricity sector stakeholders, academic 
        and private sector researchers, private sector industrial 
        control system vendors, and other relevant parties.
            (4) Report.--Not later than 24 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate a report on the results of the study, 
        including the findings of the Secretary on each of the items 
        described in paragraph (2).

SEC. 10. PROTECTION OF CRITICAL ELECTRIC INFRASTRUCTURE INFORMATION.

    Any Federal agency that produces information or has information 
made available to it in the course of carrying out this Act shall 
determine whether to designate any such information as critical 
electric infrastructure information. Critical electric infrastructure 
information--
            (1) shall be exempt from disclosure under section 552(b)(3) 
        of title 5, United States Code; and
            (2) shall not be made available by any Federal, State, 
        political subdivision, or tribal authority pursuant to any 
        Federal, State, political subdivision, or tribal law requiring 
        public disclosure of information or records.

SEC. 11. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry 
out this Act--
            (1) $65,100,000 for fiscal year 2017;
            (2) $68,355,000 for fiscal year 2018;
            (3) $71,773,000 for fiscal year 2019;
            (4) $75,361,000 for fiscal year 2020; and
            (5) $79,129,000 for fiscal year 2021.
                                 <all>
