[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Con. Res. 104 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.Con.Res.104
                                     Agreed to December 18, 2015        

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                          Concurrent Resolution

    Resolved by the House of Representatives (the Senate concurring), 
That when the House adjourns on any legislative day from Friday, 
December 18, 2015, through Saturday, January 2, 2016, on a motion 
offered pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader 
or his designee, it stand adjourned sine die, or until the time of any 
reassembly pursuant to section 2 of this concurrent resolution; and 
that when the Senate adjourns on any day from Friday, December 18, 
2015, through Tuesday, December 22, 2015, on a motion offered pursuant 
to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his designee, 
it stand adjourned sine die, or until the time of any reassembly 
pursuant to section 3 of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 2. (a) The Speaker or his designee, after consultation with 
the Minority Leader of the House, shall notify the Members of the House 
to reassemble at such place and time as he may designate if, in his 
opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the House 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the House shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 3. (a) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, 
after concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify 
the Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he 
may designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (b) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (a), when the Senate 
adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by its 
Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand adjourned 
pursuant to the first section of this concurrent resolution.
    Sec. 4. (a) When the Senate recesses or adjourns on any day of the 
second session of the One Hundred Fourteenth Congress from Sunday, 
January 3, 2016, through Friday, January 8, 2016, on a motion offered 
pursuant to this concurrent resolution by its Majority Leader or his 
designee, it shall stand recessed or adjourned until noon on Monday, 
January 11, 2016, or until such other time on that day as may be 
specified by its Majority Leader or his designee in the motion to 
recess or adjourn, or until the time of any reassembly pursuant to 
subsection (b), whichever occurs first.
    (b) The Majority Leader of the Senate or his designee, after 
concurrence with the Minority Leader of the Senate, shall notify the 
Members of the Senate to reassemble at such place and time as he may 
designate if, in his opinion, the public interest shall warrant it.
    (c) After reassembling pursuant to subsection (b), when the Senate 
recesses or adjourns on a motion offered pursuant to this subsection by 
its Majority Leader or his designee, the Senate shall again stand 
recessed or adjourned pursuant to subsection (a).
Attest:

                                 Clerk of the House of Representatives.

Attest:

                                               Secretary of the Senate.
