[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 583 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 583

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      January 12, 2016.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1644) to amend the Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977 
to ensure transparency in the development of environmental regulations, and for 
other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural 
Resources. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to consider as an original bill for 
the purpose of amendment under the five-minute rule the amendment in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Natural Resources now printed in 
the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against the committee amendment in the 
nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to the committee amendment in 
the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed in the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such amendment may 
be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a 
Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable 
for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the 
proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be 
subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in the House on any amendment 
adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or to the committee amendment 
in the nature of a substitute. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to final passage without intervening 
motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the joint resolution (S.J. Res. 22) providing for congressional 
disapproval under chapter 8 of title 5, United States Code, of the rule 
submitted by the Corps of Engineers and the Environmental Protection Agency 
relating to the definition of ``waters of the United States'' under the Federal 
Water Pollution Control Act. All points of order against consideration of the 
joint resolution are waived. The joint resolution shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in the joint resolution are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution and on 
any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; and (2) 
one motion to commit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3662) to enhance congressional oversight over the 
administration of sanctions against certain Iranian terrorism financiers, and 
for other purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs; 
and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from January 14, 2016, 
through January 22, 2016--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
