[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 200 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 200

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                        April 15, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 622) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to make permanent the deduction of State and local general sales taxes. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in 
the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now 
printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in part A of the report 
of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 1105) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
repeal the estate and generation-skipping transfer taxes, and for other 
purposes. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and 
Means now printed in the bill, modified by the amendment printed in part B of 
the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and 
ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1195) to amend the Consumer Financial Protection Act of 2010 to 
establish advisory boards, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments 
specified in this section and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Financial Services. After general debate the bill shall be considered for 
amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendment printed in part C of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution shall be 
considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions 
in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the bill, as 
amended, shall be in order except those printed in part D of the report of the 
Committee on Rules. Each such further amendment may be offered only in the order 
printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, 
shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the 
report equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall 
not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division 
of the question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of 
order against such further amendments are waived. At the conclusion of 
consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the 
bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments as may have been 
adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
