[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 732 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 732

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 17, 2016.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 4909) to authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2017 for military 
activities of the Department of Defense and for military construction, to 
prescribe military personnel strengths for such fiscal year, and for other 
purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be 
confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Armed 
Services. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. In lieu of the amendment in the nature of a substitute 
recommended by the Committee on Armed Services now printed in the bill, an 
amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the text of Rules 
Committee Print 114-51, modified by the amendment printed in part A of the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, shall be 
considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. The bill, 
as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose of further 
amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. All points 
of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived.
    Sec. 2.  (a) No further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order 
except those printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution and amendments en bloc described in section 3 of 
this resolution.
     (b) Each further amendment printed in part B of the report of the Committee 
on Rules shall be considered only in the order printed in the report, may be 
offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, 
shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and 
controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, 
and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House 
or in the Committee of the Whole.
    (c) All points of order against the further amendments printed in part B of 
the report of the Committee on Rules or amendments en bloc described in section 
3 of this resolution are waived.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time for the chair of the Committee on 
Armed Services or his designee to offer amendments en bloc consisting of 
amendments printed in part B of the report of the Committee on Rules 
accompanying this resolution not earlier disposed of. Amendments en bloc offered 
pursuant to this section shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 20 
minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Armed Services or their designees, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole.
    Sec. 4.  At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment 
pursuant to this resolution, the Committee of the Whole shall rise without 
motion. No further consideration of the bill shall be in order except pursuant 
to a subsequent order of the House.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
