[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 778 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 778

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         June 14, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (H.R. 5053) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 
1986 to prohibit the Secretary of the Treasury from requiring that the identity 
of contributors to 501(c) organizations be included in annual returns. All 
points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. In lieu of the 
amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and 
Means now printed in the bill, an amendment in the nature of a substitute 
consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-58 shall be considered as 
adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question 
shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further 
amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and (2) one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 5293) making appropriations for the Department of Defense for the 
fiscal year ending September 30, 2017, and for other purposes. The first reading 
of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration 
of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall 
not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. After general debate, the 
Committee of the Whole shall rise without motion. No further consideration of 
the bill shall be in order except pursuant to a subsequent order of the House.
    Sec. 3.  Section 10002 of H.R. 5293 shall be considered to be a spending 
reduction account for purposes of section 3(d) of House Resolution 5.
    Sec. 4.  (a) During consideration of H.R. 5293, it shall not be in order to 
consider an amendment proposing both a decrease in an appropriation designated 
pursuant to section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
Deficit Control Act of 1985 and an increase in an appropriation not so 
designated, or vice versa.
     (b) Subsection (a) shall not apply to an amendment between the Houses.
    Sec. 5.  During consideration of H.R. 5293, section 3304 of Senate 
Concurrent Resolution 11 shall not apply.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
