[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 1735 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.1735

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
To authorize appropriations for fiscal year 2016 for military activities 
of the Department of Defense, for military construction, and for defense 
activities of the Department of Energy, to prescribe military personnel 
         strengths for such fiscal year, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2016''.
SEC. 2. ORGANIZATION OF ACT INTO DIVISIONS; TABLE OF CONTENTS.
    (a) Divisions.--This Act is organized into four divisions as 
follows:
        (1) Division A--Department of Defense Authorizations.
        (2) Division B--Military Construction Authorizations.
        (3) Division C--Department of Energy National Security 
    Authorizations and Other Authorizations.
        (4) Division D--Funding Tables.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Organization of Act into divisions; table of contents.
Sec. 3. Congressional defense committees.
Sec. 4. Budgetary effects of this Act.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS

                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Prioritization of upgraded UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters within 
          Army National Guard.
Sec. 112. Roadmap for replacement of A/MH-6 Mission Enhanced Little Bird 
          aircraft to meet special operations requirements.
Sec. 113. Report on options to accelerate replacement of UH-60A 
          Blackhawk helicopters of Army National Guard.
Sec. 114. Sense of Congress on tactical wheeled vehicle protection kits.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Modification of CVN-78 class aircraft carrier program.
Sec. 122. Amendment to cost limitation baseline for CVN-78 class 
          aircraft carrier program.
Sec. 123. Extension and modification of limitation on availability of 
          funds for Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 124. Modification to multiyear procurement authority for Arleigh 
          Burke class destroyers and associated systems.
Sec. 125. Procurement of additional Arleigh Burke class destroyer.
Sec. 126. Refueling and complex overhaul of the U.S.S. George 
          Washington.
Sec. 127. Fleet Replenishment Oiler Program.
Sec. 128. Limitation on availability of funds for U.S.S. John F. Kennedy 
          (CVN-79).
Sec. 129. Limitation on availability of funds for U.S.S. Enterprise 
          (CVN-80).
Sec. 130. Limitation on availability of funds for Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 131. Reporting requirement for Ohio-class replacement submarine 
          program.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Backup inventory status of A-10 aircraft.
Sec. 142. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of A-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 143. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of EC-130H 
          Compass Call aircraft.
Sec. 144. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of Joint 
          Surveillance Target Attack Radar System, EC-130H Compass Call, 
          and Airborne Warning and Control System aircraft.
Sec. 145. Limitation on availability of funds for F-35A aircraft 
          procurement.
Sec. 146. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of KC-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 147. Limitation on availability of funds for transfer of C-130 
          aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on availability of funds for executive 
          communications upgrades for C-20 and C-37 aircraft.
Sec. 149. Limitation on availability of funds for T-1A Jayhawk aircraft.
Sec. 150. Notification of retirement of B-1, B-2, and B-52 bomber 
          aircraft.
Sec. 151. Inventory requirement for fighter aircraft of the Air Force.
Sec. 152. Sense of Congress regarding the OCONUS basing of F-35A 
          aircraft.

        Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 161. Limitation on availability of funds for Joint Battle Command-
          Platform.
Sec. 162. Report on Army and Marine Corps modernization plan for small 
          arms.
Sec. 163. Study on use of different types of enhanced 5.56mm ammunition 
          by the Army and the Marine Corps.

          TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Centers for Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnership.
Sec. 212.  Expansion of eligibility for financial assistance under 
          Department of Defense Science, Mathematics, and Research for 
          Transformation Program to include citizens of countries 
          participating in the Technical Cooperation Program.
Sec. 213. Expansion of education partnerships to support technology 
          transfer and transition.
Sec. 214. Improvement to coordination and communication of defense 
          research activities.
Sec. 215. Reauthorization of Global Research Watch program.
Sec. 216. Reauthorization of defense research and development rapid 
          innovation program.
Sec. 217. Science and technology activities to support business systems 
          information technology acquisition programs.
Sec. 218. Department of Defense technology offset program to build and 
          maintain the military technological superiority of the United 
          States.
Sec. 219. Limitation on availability of funds for F-15 infrared search 
          and track capability development.
Sec. 220. Limitation on availability of funds for development of the 
          shallow water combat submersible.
Sec. 221. Limitation on availability of funds for the advanced 
          development and manufacturing facility under the medical 
          countermeasure program.
Sec. 222. Limitation on availability of funds for distributed common 
          ground system of the Army.
Sec. 223. Limitation on availability of funds for distributed common 
          ground system of the United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 224. Limitation on availability of funds for Integrated Personnel 
          and Pay System of the Army.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Streamlining the Joint Federated Assurance Center.
Sec. 232. Demonstration of Persistent Close Air Support capabilities.
Sec. 233. Strategies for engagement with Historically Black Colleges and 
          Universities and Minority-serving Institutions of Higher 
          Education.
Sec. 234. Report on commercial-off-the-shelf wide-area surveillance 
          systems for Army tactical unmanned aerial systems.
Sec. 235. Report on Tactical Combat Training System Increment II.
Sec. 236. Report on technology readiness levels of the technologies and 
          capabilities critical to the long-range strike bomber 
          aircraft.
Sec. 237. Assessment of air-land mobile tactical communications and data 
          network requirements and capabilities.
Sec. 238. Study of field failures involving counterfeit electronic 
          parts.
Sec. 239. Airborne data link plan.
Sec. 240. Plan for advanced weapons technology war games.
Sec. 241. Independent assessment of F135 engine program.
Sec. 242. Comptroller General review of autonomic logistics information 
          system for F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
Sec. 243. Sense of Congress regarding facilitation of a high quality 
          technical workforce.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Limitation on procurement of drop-in fuels.
Sec. 312. Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness Areas.
Sec. 313. Modification of energy management reporting requirements.
Sec. 314. Revision to scope of statutorily required review of projects 
          relating to potential obstructions to aviation so as to apply 
          only to energy projects.
Sec. 315. Exclusions from definition of ``chemical substance'' under 
          Toxic Substances Control Act.

                  Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 322. Repeal of limitation on authority to enter into a contract for 
          the sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of the F117 
          engine.
Sec. 323. Pilot programs for availability of working-capital funds for 
          product improvements.

                           Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Modification of annual report on prepositioned materiel and 
          equipment.
Sec. 332. Report on merger of Office of Assistant Secretary for 
          Operational Energy Plans and Deputy Under Secretary for 
          Installations and Environment.
Sec. 333. Report on equipment purchased noncompetitively from foreign 
          entities.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Prohibition on contracts making payments for honoring members 
          of the Armed Forces at sporting events.
Sec. 342. Military animals: transfer and adoption.
Sec. 343. Temporary authority to extend contracts and leases under the 
          ARMS Initiative.
Sec. 344. Improvements to Department of Defense excess property 
          disposal.
Sec. 345. Limitation on use of funds for Department of Defense 
          sponsorships, advertising, or marketing associated with 
          sports-related organizations or sporting events.
Sec. 346. Reduction in amounts available for Department of Defense 
          headquarters, administrative, and support activities.

               TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2016 limitation on number of non-dual status 
          technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
Sec. 422. Report on force structure of the Army.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Reinstatement of enhanced authority for selective early 
          discharge of warrant officers.
Sec. 502. Equitable treatment of junior officers excluded from an all-
          fully-qualified-officers list because of administrative error.
Sec. 503. Enhanced flexibility for determination of officers to continue 
          on active duty and for selective early retirement and early 
          discharge.
Sec. 504. Authority to defer until age 68 mandatory retirement for age 
          of a general or flag officer serving as Chief or Deputy Chief 
          of Chaplains of the Army, Navy, or Air Force.
Sec. 505. General rule for warrant officer retirement in highest grade 
          held satisfactorily.
Sec. 506. Implementation of Comptroller General recommendation on the 
          definition and availability of costs associated with general 
          and flag officers and their aides.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Continued service in the Ready Reserve by Members of Congress 
          who are also members of the Ready Reserve.
Sec. 512. Clarification of purpose of reserve component special 
          selection boards as limited to correction of error at a 
          mandatory promotion board.
Sec. 513. Increase in number of days of active duty required to be 
          performed by reserve component members for duty to be 
          considered Federal service for purposes of unemployment 
          compensation for ex-servicemembers.
Sec. 514. Temporary authority to use Air Force reserve component 
          personnel to provide training and instruction regarding pilot 
          training.
Sec. 515. Assessment of Military Compensation and Retirement 
          Modernization Commission recommendation regarding 
          consolidation of authorities to order members of reserve 
          components to perform duty.

                 Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 521. Limited authority for Secretary concerned to initiate 
          applications for correction of military records.
Sec. 522. Temporary authority to develop and provide additional 
          recruitment incentives.
Sec. 523. Expansion of authority to conduct pilot programs on career 
          flexibility to enhance retention of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 524. Modification of notice and wait requirements for change in 
          ground combat exclusion policy for female members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 525. Role of Secretary of Defense in development of gender-neutral 
          occupational standards.
Sec. 526. Establishment of process by which members of the Armed Forces 
          may carry an appropriate firearm on a military installation.
Sec. 527. Establishment of breastfeeding policy for the Department of 
          the Army.
Sec. 528. Sense of Congress recognizing the diversity of the members of 
          the Armed Forces.

  Subtitle D--Military Justice, Including Sexual Assault and Domestic 
                    Violence Prevention and Response

Sec. 531. Enforcement of certain crime victim rights by the Court of 
          Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 532. Department of Defense civilian employee access to Special 
          Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 533. Authority of Special Victims' Counsel to provide legal 
          consultation and assistance in connection with various 
          Government proceedings.
Sec. 534. Timely notification to victims of sex-related offenses of the 
          availability of assistance from Special Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 535. Additional improvements to Special Victims' Counsel program.
Sec. 536. Enhancement of confidentiality of restricted reporting of 
          sexual assault in the military.
Sec. 537. Modification of deadline for establishment of Defense Advisory 
          Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual 
          Assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 538. Improved Department of Defense prevention and response to 
          sexual assaults in which the victim is a male member of the 
          Armed Forces.
Sec. 539. Preventing retaliation against members of the Armed Forces who 
          report or intervene on behalf of the victim of an alleged sex-
          related offence.
Sec. 540. Sexual assault prevention and response training for 
          administrators and instructors of Senior Reserve Officers' 
          Training Corps.
Sec. 541. Retention of case notes in investigations of sex-related 
          offenses involving members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or 
          Marine Corps.
Sec. 542. Comptroller General of the United States reports on prevention 
          and response to sexual assault by the Army National Guard and 
          the Army Reserve.
Sec. 543. Improved implementation of changes to Uniform Code of Military 
          Justice.
Sec. 544. Modification of Rule 104 of the Rules for Courts-Martial to 
          establish certain prohibitions concerning evaluations of 
          Special Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 545. Modification of Rule 304 of the Military Rules of Evidence 
          relating to the corroboration of a confession or admission.

         Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, and Transition

Sec. 551. Enhancements to Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program.
Sec. 552. Availability of preseparation counseling for members of the 
          Armed Forces discharged or released after limited active duty.
Sec. 553. Availability of additional training opportunities under 
          Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 554. Modification of requirement for in-resident instruction for 
          courses of instruction offered as part of Phase II joint 
          professional military education.
Sec. 555. Termination of program of educational assistance for reserve 
          component members supporting contingency operations and other 
          operations.
Sec. 556. Appointments to military service academies from nominations 
          made by Delegates in Congress from the Virgin Islands, Guam, 
          American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
          Islands.
Sec. 557. Support for athletic programs of the United States Military 
          Academy.
Sec. 558. Condition on admission of defense industry civilians to attend 
          the United States Air Force Institute of Technology.
Sec. 559. Quality assurance of certification programs and standards for 
          professional credentials obtained by members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 560. Prohibition on receipt of unemployment insurance while 
          receiving post-9/11 education assistance.
Sec. 561. Job Training and Post-Service Placement Executive Committee.
Sec. 562. Recognition of additional involuntary mobilization duty 
          authorities exempt from five-year limit on reemployment rights 
          of persons who serve in the uniformed services.
Sec. 563. Expansion of outreach for veterans transitioning from serving 
          on active duty.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                 Matters

Sec. 571. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies 
          that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and 
          Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 572. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 573. Authority to use appropriated funds to support Department of 
          Defense student meal programs in domestic dependent elementary 
          and secondary schools located outside the United States.
Sec. 574. Family support programs for immediate family members of 
          members of the Armed Forces assigned to special operations 
          forces.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 581. Authorization for award of the Distinguished-Service Cross for 
          acts of extraordinary heroism during the Korean War.

           Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 591. Coordination with non-government suicide prevention 
          organizations and agencies to assist in reducing suicides by 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 592. Extension of semiannual reports on the involuntary separation 
          of members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 593. Report on preliminary mental health screenings for individuals 
          becoming members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 594. Report regarding new rulemaking under the Military Lending Act 
          and Defense Manpower Data Center reports and meetings.
Sec. 595. Remotely piloted aircraft career field manning shortfalls.

           TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. No fiscal year 2016 increase in military basic pay for general 
          and flag officers.
Sec. 602. Limitation on eligibility for supplemental subsistence 
          allowances to members serving outside the United States and 
          associated territory.
Sec. 603. Phased-in modification of percentage of national average 
          monthly cost of housing usable in computation of basic 
          allowance for housing inside the United States.
Sec. 604. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
          of basic allowance for housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 605. Availability of information under the Food and Nutrition Act 
          of 2008.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
          nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
          consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
          authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other 
          title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Increase in maximum annual amount of nuclear officer bonus 
          pay.
Sec. 617. Modification to special aviation incentive pay and bonus 
          authorities for officers.
Sec. 618. Repeal of obsolete authority to pay bonus to encourage Army 
          personnel to refer persons for enlistment in the Army.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

Sec. 621. Transportation to transfer ceremonies for family and next of 
          kin of members of the Armed Forces who die overseas during 
          humanitarian operations.
Sec. 622. Repeal of obsolete special travel and transportation allowance 
          for survivors of deceased members of the Armed Forces from the 
          Vietnam conflict.
Sec. 623. Study and report on policy changes to the Joint Travel 
          Regulations.

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

                       Part I--Retired Pay Reform

Sec. 631. Modernized retirement system for members of the uniformed 
          services.
Sec. 632. Full participation for members of the uniformed services in 
          the Thrift Savings Plan.
Sec. 633. Lump sum payments of certain retired pay.
Sec. 634. Continuation pay for full TSP members with 12 years of 
          service.
Sec. 635. Effective date and implementation.

                         Part II--Other Matters

Sec. 641. Death of former spouse beneficiaries and subsequent 
          remarriages under the Survivor Benefit Plan.

    Subtitle E--Commissary and Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                         Benefits and Operations

Sec. 651. Plan to obtain budget-neutrality for the defense commissary 
          system and the military exchange system.
Sec. 652. Comptroller General of the United States report on the 
          Commissary Surcharge, Non-appropriated Fund, and Privately-
          Financed Major Construction Program.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 661. Improvement of financial literacy and preparedness of members 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 662. Recordation of obligations for installment payments of 
          incentive pays, allowances, and similar benefits when payment 
          is due.

                    TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Access to TRICARE Prime for certain beneficiaries.
Sec. 702. Modifications of cost-sharing for the TRICARE pharmacy 
          benefits program.
Sec. 703. Expansion of continued health benefits coverage to include 
          discharged and released members of the Selected Reserve.
Sec. 704. Access to health care under the TRICARE program for 
          beneficiaries of TRICARE Prime.
Sec. 705. Expansion of reimbursement for smoking cessation services for 
          certain TRICARE beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Waiver of recoupment of erroneous payments caused by 
          administrative error under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 712. Publication of data on patient safety, quality of care, 
          satisfaction, and health outcome measures under the TRICARE 
          program.
Sec. 713. Expansion of evaluation of effectiveness of the TRICARE 
          program to include information on patient safety, quality of 
          care, and access to care at military medical treatment 
          facilities.
Sec. 714. Portability of health plans under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 715. Joint uniform formulary for transition of care.
Sec. 716. Licensure of mental health professionals in TRICARE program.
Sec. 717. Designation of certain non-Department mental health care 
          providers with knowledge relating to treatment of members of 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 718. Comprehensive standards and access to contraception counseling 
          for members of the Armed Forces.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Provision of transportation of dependent patients relating to 
          obstetrical anesthesia services.
Sec. 722. Extension of authority for DOD-VA Health Care Sharing 
          Incentive Fund.
Sec. 723. Extension of authority for Joint Department of Defense-
          Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
          Fund.
Sec. 724. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the 
          Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 725. Pilot program on urgent care under TRICARE program.
Sec. 726. Pilot program on incentive programs to improve health care 
          provided under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 727. Limitation on availability of funds for Department of Defense 
          Healthcare Management Systems Modernization.
Sec. 728. Submittal of information to Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
          relating to exposure to airborne hazards and open burn pits.
Sec. 729. Plan for development of procedures to measure data on mental 
          health care provided by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 730. Report on plans to improve experience with and eliminate 
          performance variability of health care provided by the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 731. Comptroller General study on gambling and problem gambling 
          behavior among members of the Armed Forces.

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                 MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Required review of acquisition-related functions of the Chiefs 
          of Staff of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 802. Role of Chiefs of Staff in the acquisition process.
Sec. 803. Expansion of rapid acquisition authority.
Sec. 804. Middle tier of acquisition for rapid prototyping and rapid 
          fielding.
Sec. 805. Use of alternative acquisition paths to acquire critical 
          national security capabilities.
Sec. 806. Secretary of Defense waiver of acquisition laws to acquire 
          vital national security capabilities.
Sec. 807. Acquisition authority of the Commander of United States Cyber 
          Command.
Sec. 808. Report on linking and streamlining requirements, acquisition, 
          and budget processes within Armed Forces.
Sec. 809. Advisory panel on streamlining and codifying acquisition 
          regulations.
Sec. 810. Review of time-based requirements process and budgeting and 
          acquisition systems.

 Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 811. Amendment relating to multiyear contract authority for 
          acquisition of property.
Sec. 812. Applicability of cost and pricing data and certification 
          requirements.
Sec. 813. Rights in technical data.
Sec. 814. Procurement of supplies for experimental purposes.
Sec. 815. Amendments to other transaction authority.
Sec. 816. Amendment to acquisition threshold for special emergency 
          procurement authority.
Sec. 817. Revision of method of rounding when making inflation 
          adjustment of acquisition-related dollar thresholds.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 821. Acquisition strategy required for each major defense 
          acquisition program, major automated information system, and 
          major system.
Sec. 822. Revision to requirements relating to risk management in 
          development of major defense acquisition programs and major 
          systems.
Sec. 823. Revision of Milestone A decision authority responsibilities 
          for major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 824. Revision of Milestone B decision authority responsibilities 
          for major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 825. Designation of milestone decision authority.
Sec. 826. Tenure and accountability of program managers for program 
          definition periods.
Sec. 827. Tenure and accountability of program managers for program 
          execution periods.
Sec. 828. Penalty for cost overruns.
Sec. 829. Streamlining of reporting requirements applicable to Assistant 
          Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering regarding 
          major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 830. Configuration Steering Boards for cost control under major 
          defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 831. Repeal of requirement for stand-alone manpower estimates for 
          major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 832. Revision to duties of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
          Defense for Developmental Test and Evaluation and the Deputy 
          Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 841. Amendments to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
          Development Fund.
Sec. 842. Dual-track military professionals in operational and 
          acquisition specialities.
Sec. 843. Provision of joint duty assignment credit for acquisition 
          duty.
Sec. 844. Mandatory requirement for training related to the conduct of 
          market research.
Sec. 845. Independent study of implementation of defense acquisition 
          workforce improvement efforts.
Sec. 846. Extension of authority for the civilian acquisition workforce 
          personnel demonstration project.

           Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 851. Procurement of commercial items.
Sec. 852. Modification to information required to be submitted by 
          offeror in procurement of major weapon systems as commercial 
          items.
Sec. 853. Use of recent prices paid by the Government in the 
          determination of price reasonableness.
Sec. 854. Report on defense-unique laws applicable to the procurement of 
          commercial items and commercially available off-the-shelf 
          items.
Sec. 855. Market research and preference for commercial items.
Sec. 856. Limitation on conversion of procurements from commercial 
          acquisition procedures.
Sec. 857. Treatment of goods and services provided by nontraditional 
          defense contractors as commercial items.

                   Subtitle F--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 861. Amendment to Mentor-Protege Program.
Sec. 862. Amendments to data quality improvement plan.
Sec. 863. Notice of contract consolidation for acquisition strategies.
Sec. 864. Clarification of requirements related to small business 
          contracts for services.
Sec. 865. Certification requirements for Business Opportunity 
          Specialists, commercial market representatives, and 
          procurement center representatives.
Sec. 866. Modifications to requirements for qualified HUBZone small 
          business concerns located in a base closure area.
Sec. 867. Joint venturing and teaming.
Sec. 868. Modification to and scorecard program for small business 
          contracting goals.
Sec. 869. Establishment of an Office of Hearings and Appeals in the 
          Small Business Administration; petitions for reconsideration 
          of size standards.
Sec. 870. Additional duties of the Director of Small and Disadvantaged 
          Business Utilization.
Sec. 871. Including subcontracting goals in agency responsibilities.
Sec. 872. Reporting related to failure of contractors to meet goals 
          under negotiated comprehensive small business subcontracting 
          plans.
Sec. 873. Pilot program for streamlining awards for innovative 
          technology projects.
Sec. 874. Surety bond requirements and amount of guarantee.
Sec. 875. Review of Government access to intellectual property rights of 
          private sector firms.
Sec. 876. Inclusion in annual technology and industrial capability 
          assessments of a determination about defense acquisition 
          program requirements.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 881. Consideration of potential program cost increases and schedule 
          delays resulting from oversight of defense acquisition 
          programs.
Sec. 882. Examination and guidance relating to oversight and approval of 
          services contracts.
Sec. 883. Streamlining of requirements relating to defense business 
          systems.
Sec. 884. Procurement of personal protective equipment.
Sec. 885. Amendments concerning detection and avoidance of counterfeit 
          electronic parts.
Sec. 886. Exception for AbilityOne products from authority to acquire 
          goods and services manufactured in Afghanistan, Central Asian 
          States, and Djibouti.
Sec. 887. Effective communication between government and industry.
Sec. 888. Standards for procurement of secure information technology and 
          cyber security systems.
Sec. 889. Unified information technology services.
Sec. 890. Cloud strategy for Department of Defense.
Sec. 891. Development period for Department of Defense information 
          technology systems.
Sec. 892. Revisions to pilot program on acquisition of military purpose 
          nondevelopmental items.
Sec. 893. Improved auditing of contracts.
Sec. 894. Sense of Congress on evaluation method for procurement of 
          audit or audit readiness services.
Sec. 895. Mitigating potential unfair competitive advantage of technical 
          advisors to acquisition programs.
Sec. 896. Survey on the costs of regulatory compliance.
Sec. 897. Treatment of interagency and State and local purchases when 
          the Department of Defense acts as contract intermediary for 
          the General Services Administration.
Sec. 898. Competition for religious services contracts.
Sec. 899. Pilot program regarding risk-based contracting for smaller 
          contract actions under the Truth in Negotiations Act.

       TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

Sec. 901. Update of statutory specification of functions of the Chairman 
          of the Joint Chiefs of Staff relating to joint force 
          development activities.
Sec. 902. Sense of Congress on the United States Marine Corps.

                       TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Accounting standards to value certain property, plant, and 
          equipment items.
Sec. 1003. Report on auditable financial statements.
Sec. 1004. Sense of Congress on sequestration.
Sec. 1005. Annual audit of financial statements of Department of Defense 
          components by independent external auditors.

                   Subtitle B--Counter-Drug Activities

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to support unified counterdrug and 
          counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Extension and expansion of authority to provide additional 
          support for counter-drug activities of certain foreign 
          governments.
Sec. 1013. Sense of Congress on Central America.

                 Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Additional information supporting long-range plans for 
          construction of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.
Sec. 1023. Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for 
          certain Navy mess operations afloat.
Sec. 1024. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
          Ticonderoga class cruisers or dock landing ships.
Sec. 1025. Limitation on the use of funds for removal of ballistic 
          missile defense capabilities from Ticonderoga class cruisers.
Sec. 1026. Independent assessment of United States Combat Logistic Force 
          requirements.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
          individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
Sec. 1032. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities 
          in the United States to house detainees transferred from 
          United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release to 
          certain countries of individuals detained at United States 
          Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Reenactment and modification of certain prior requirements 
          for certifications relating to transfer of detainees at United 
          States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to foreign 
          countries and other foreign entities.
Sec. 1035. Comprehensive detention strategy.
Sec. 1036. Prohibition on use of funds for realignment of forces at or 
          closure of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1037. Report on current detainees at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, determined or assessed to be high risk 
          or medium risk.
Sec. 1038. Reports to Congress on contact between terrorists and 
          individuals formerly detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1039. Inclusion in reports to Congress of information about 
          recidivism of individuals formerly detained at United States 
          Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1040. Report to Congress on terms of written agreements with 
          foreign countries regarding transfer of detainees at United 
          States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1041. Report on use of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
          Cuba, and other Department of Defense or Bureau of Prisons 
          prisons or detention or disciplinary facilities in recruitment 
          or other propaganda of terrorist organizations.
Sec. 1042. Permanent authority to provide rewards through government 
          personnel of allied forces and certain other modifications to 
          Department of Defense program to provide rewards.
Sec. 1043. Sunset on exception to congressional notification of 
          sensitive military operations.
Sec. 1044. Repeal of semiannual reports on obligation and expenditure of 
          funds for the combating terrorism program.
Sec. 1045. Limitation on interrogation techniques.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1051. Department of Defense excess property program.
Sec. 1052. Sale or donation of excess personal property for border 
          security activities.
Sec. 1053. Management of military technicians.
Sec. 1054. Limitation on transfer of certain AH-64 Apache helicopters 
          from Army National Guard to regular Army and related personnel 
          levels.
Sec. 1055. Authority to provide training and support to personnel of 
          foreign ministries of defense.
Sec. 1056. Information operations and engagement technology 
          demonstrations.
Sec. 1057. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of Helicopter Sea 
          Combat Squadron 84 and 85 aircraft.
Sec. 1058. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of 
          certain landmines and report on department of defense policy 
          and inventory of anti-personnel landmine munitions.
Sec. 1059. Department of Defense authority to provide assistance to 
          secure the southern land border of the United States.

                     Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1060. Provision of defense planning guidance and contingency 
          planning guidance information to Congress.
Sec. 1061. Expedited meetings of the National Commission on the Future 
          of the Army.
Sec. 1062. Modification of certain reports submitted by Comptroller 
          General of the United States.
Sec. 1063. Report on implementation of the geographically distributed 
          force laydown in the area of responsibility of United States 
          Pacific Command.
Sec. 1064. Independent study of national security strategy formulation 
          process.
Sec. 1065. Report on the status of detection, identification, and 
          disablement capabilities related to remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 1066. Report on options to accelerate the training of pilots of 
          remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 1067. Studies of fleet platform architectures for the Navy.
Sec. 1068. Report on strategy to protect United States national security 
          interests in the Arctic region.
Sec. 1069. Comptroller General briefing and report on major medical 
          facility projects of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 1070. Submittal to Congress of munitions assessments.
Sec. 1071. Potential role for United States ground forces in the Western 
          Pacific theater.
Sec. 1072. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          military personnel issues.
Sec. 1073. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements relating to 
          readiness.
Sec. 1074. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to naval 
          vessels and Merchant Marine.
Sec. 1075. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          civilian personnel.
Sec. 1076. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          nuclear proliferation and related matters.
Sec. 1077. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          acquisition.
Sec. 1078. Repeal or revision of miscellaneous reporting requirements.
Sec. 1079. Repeal of reporting requirements.
Sec. 1080. Termination of requirement for submittal to Congress of 
          reports required of Department of Defense by statute.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1082. Situations involving bombings of places of public use, 
          Government facilities, public transportation systems, and 
          infrastructure facilities.
Sec. 1083. Executive agent for the oversight and management of 
          alternative compensatory control measures.
Sec. 1084. Navy support of Ocean Research Advisory Panel.
Sec. 1085. Level of readiness of Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers.
Sec. 1086. Reform and improvement of personnel security, insider threat 
          detection and prevention, and physical security.
Sec. 1087. Transfer of surplus firearms to Corporation for the Promotion 
          of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety.
Sec. 1088. Modification of requirements for transferring aircraft within 
          the Air Force inventory.
Sec. 1089. Reestablishment of Commission to Assess the Threat to the 
          United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack.
Sec. 1090. Mine countermeasures master plan and report.
Sec. 1091. Congressional notification and briefing requirement on 
          ordered evacuations of United States embassies and consulates 
          involving support provided by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1092. Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator.
Sec. 1093. Sense of Congress on the inadvertent transfer of anthrax from 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1094. Modification of certain requirements applicable to major 
          medical facility lease for a Department of Veterans Affairs 
          outpatient clinic in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Sec. 1095. Authorization of fiscal year 2015 major medical facility 
          projects of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 1096. Designation of construction agent for certain construction 
          projects by Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 1097. Department of Defense strategy for countering unconventional 
          warfare.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Procedures for reduction in force of Department of Defense 
          civilian personnel.
Sec. 1102. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on 
          official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1103. Extension of rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy 
          employees performing work aboard or dockside in support of the 
          nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1104. Modification to temporary authorities for certain positions 
          at Department of Defense research and engineering facilities.
Sec. 1105. Required probationary period for new employees of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1106. Delay of periodic step increase for civilian employees of the 
          Department of Defense based upon unacceptable performance.
Sec. 1107. United States Cyber Command workforce.
Sec. 1108. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1109. Pilot program on dynamic shaping of the workforce to improve 
          the technical skills and expertise at certain Department of 
          Defense laboratories.
Sec. 1110. Pilot program on temporary exchange of financial management 
          and acquisition personnel.
Sec. 1111. Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain 
          acquisition and technology positions in the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1112. Pilot program on direct hire authority for veteran technical 
          experts into the defense acquisition workforce.
Sec. 1113. Direct hire authority for technical experts into the defense 
          acquisition workforce.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition forces 
          supporting certain United States military operations.
Sec. 1202. Strategic framework for Department of Defense security 
          cooperation.
Sec. 1203. Redesignation, modification, and extension of National Guard 
          State Partnership Program.
Sec. 1204. Extension of authority for non-reciprocal exchanges of 
          defense personnel between the United States and foreign 
          countries.
Sec. 1205. Monitoring and evaluation of overseas humanitarian, disaster, 
          and civic aid programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1206. One-year extension of funding limitations for authority to 
          build the capacity of foreign security forces.
Sec. 1207. Authority to provide support to national military forces of 
          allied countries for counterterrorism operations in Africa.
Sec. 1208. Reports on training of foreign military intelligence units 
          provided by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1209. Prohibition on security assistance to entities in Yemen 
          controlled by the Houthi movement.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
          Program.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.
Sec. 1213. Additional matter in semiannual report on enhancing security 
          and stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
          produced in countries along a major route of supply to 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
          provide defense services to the military and security forces 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Modification of protection for Afghan allies.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria and Iraq

Sec. 1221. Extension of authority to support operations and activities 
          of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1222. Strategy for the Middle East and to counter violent 
          extremism.
Sec. 1223. Modification of authority to provide assistance to counter 
          the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
Sec. 1224. Reports on United States Armed Forces deployed in support of 
          Operation Inherent Resolve.
Sec. 1225. Matters relating to support for the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1226. Support to the Government of Jordan and the Government of 
          Lebanon for border security operations.
Sec. 1227. Sense of Congress on the security and protection of Iranian 
          dissidents living in Camp Liberty, Iraq.

                  Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Iran

Sec. 1231. Modification and extension of annual report on the military 
          power of Iran.
Sec. 1232. Sense of Congress on the Government of Iran's malign 
          activities.
Sec. 1233. Report on military-to-military engagements with Iran.
Sec. 1234. Security guarantees to countries in the Middle East.
Sec. 1235. Rule of construction.

         Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1241. Notifications relating to testing, production, deployment, 
          and sale or transfer to other states or non-state actors of 
          the Club-K cruise missile system by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1242. Notifications of deployment of nuclear weapons by Russian 
          Federation to territory of Ukrainian Republic or Russian 
          territory of Kaliningrad.
Sec. 1243. Measures in response to non-compliance by the Russian 
          Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1244. Modification of notification and assessment of proposal to 
          modify or introduce new aircraft or sensors for flight by the 
          Russian Federation under the Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1245. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
          of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1246. Limitation on military cooperation between the United States 
          and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1247. Report on implementation of the New START Treaty.
Sec. 1248. Additional matters in annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1249. Report on alternative capabilities to procure and sustain 
          nonstandard rotary wing aircraft historically procured through 
          Rosoboronexport.
Sec. 1250. Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
Sec. 1251. Training for Eastern European national military forces in the 
          course of multilateral exercises.

         Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1261. Strategy to promote United States interests in the Indo-Asia-
          Pacific region.
Sec. 1262. Requirement to submit Department of Defense policy regarding 
          foreign disclosure or technology release of Aegis Ashore 
          capability to Japan.
Sec. 1263. South China Sea Initiative.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1271. Two-year extension and modification of authorization for non-
          conventional assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1272. Amendment to the annual report under Arms Control and 
          Disarmament Act.
Sec. 1273. Extension of authorization to conduct activities to enhance 
          the capability of foreign countries to respond to incidents 
          involving weapons of mass destruction.
Sec. 1274. Modification of authority for support of special operations 
          to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1275. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
          Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1276. Report on the security relationship between the United States 
          and the Republic of Cyprus.
Sec. 1277. Sense of Congress on European defense and the North Atlantic 
          Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1278. Briefing on the sale of certain fighter aircraft to Qatar.
Sec. 1279. United States-Israel anti-tunnel cooperation.
Sec. 1280. NATO Special Operations Headquarters.
Sec. 1281. Increased presence of United States ground forces in Eastern 
          Europe to deter aggression on the border of the North Atlantic 
          Treaty Organization.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.

                     TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1403. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1404. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1405. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1406. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1407. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1411. Extension of date for completion of destruction of existing 
          stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions.

                    Subtitle C--Working-Capital Funds

Sec. 1421. Limitation on cessation or suspension of distribution of 
          funds from Department of Defense working-capital funds.
Sec. 1422. Working-capital fund reserve account for petroleum market 
          price fluctuations.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1431. Authority for transfer of funds to Joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care 
          Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1432. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
          appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.
Sec. 1510. Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.

                      Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.

           Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1532. Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1533. Availability of Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund 
          for training of foreign security forces to defeat improvised 
          explosive devices.
Sec. 1534. Comptroller General report on use of certain funds provided 
          for operation and maintenance.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Major force program and budget for national security space 
          programs.
Sec. 1602. Principal advisor on space control.
Sec. 1603. Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense 
          Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Enterprise.
Sec. 1604. Modification to development of space science and technology 
          strategy.
Sec. 1605. Delegation of authority regarding purchase of Global 
          Positioning System user equipment.
Sec. 1606. Rocket propulsion system development program.
Sec. 1607. Exception to the prohibition on contracting with Russian 
          suppliers of rocket engines for the evolved expendable launch 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 1608. Acquisition strategy for evolved expendable launch vehicle 
          program.
Sec. 1609. Allocation of funding for evolved expendable launch vehicle 
          program.
Sec. 1610. Consolidation of acquisition of wideband satellite 
          communications.
Sec. 1611. Analysis of alternatives for wide-band communications.
Sec. 1612. Expansion of goals and modification of pilot program for 
          acquisition of commercial satellite communication services.
Sec. 1613. Integrated policy to deter adversaries in space.
Sec. 1614. Prohibition on reliance on China and Russia for space-based 
          weather data.
Sec. 1615. Limitation on availability of funds for weather satellite 
          follow-on system.
Sec. 1616. Limitations on availability of funds for the Defense 
          Meteorological Satellite program.
Sec. 1617. Streamline of commercial space launch activities.
Sec. 1618. Plan on full integration and exploitation of overhead 
          persistent infrared capability.
Sec. 1619. Options for rapid space reconstitution.
Sec. 1620. Evaluation of exploitation of space-based infrared system 
          against additional threats.
Sec. 1621. Quarterly reports on Global Positioning System III space 
          segment, Global Positioning System operational control 
          segment, and Military Global Positioning System user equipment 
          acquisition programs.
Sec. 1622. Sense of Congress on missile defense sensors in space.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1631. Executive agent for open-source intelligence tools.
Sec. 1632. Waiver and congressional notification requirements related to 
          facilities for intelligence collection or for special 
          operations abroad.
Sec. 1633. Prohibition on National Intelligence Program consolidation.
Sec. 1634. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the Under 
          Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
Sec. 1635. Department of Defense intelligence needs.
Sec. 1636. Report on management of certain programs of Defense 
          intelligence elements.
Sec. 1637. Report on Air National Guard contributions to the RQ-4 Global 
          Hawk mission.
Sec. 1638. Government Accountability Office review of intelligence input 
          to the defense acquisition process.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1641. Codification and addition of liability protections relating 
          to reporting on cyber incidents or penetrations of networks 
          and information systems of certain contractors.
Sec. 1642. Authorization of military cyber operations.
Sec. 1643. Limitation on availability of funds pending the submission of 
          integrated policy to deter adversaries in cyberspace.
Sec. 1644. Authorization for procurement of relocatable Sensitive 
          Compartmented Information Facility.
Sec. 1645. Designation of military department entity responsible for 
          acquisition of critical cyber capabilities.
Sec. 1646. Assessment of capabilities of United States Cyber Command to 
          defend the United States from cyber attacks.
Sec. 1647. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems 
          of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1648. Comprehensive plan and biennial exercises on responding to 
          cyber attacks.
Sec. 1649. Sense of Congress on reviewing and considering findings and 
          recommendations of Council of Governors on cyber capabilities 
          of the Armed Forces.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1651. Assessment of threats to National Leadership Command, 
          Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 1652. Organization of nuclear deterrence functions of the Air 
          Force.
Sec. 1653. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
          ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1654. Prohibition on availability of funds for de-alerting 
          intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1655. Assessment of global nuclear environment.
Sec. 1656. Annual briefing on the costs of forward-deploying nuclear 
          weapons in Europe.
Sec. 1657. Report on the number of planned long-range standoff weapons.
Sec. 1658. Review of Comptroller General of the United States on 
          recommendations relating to nuclear enterprise of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1659. Sense of Congress on organization of Navy for nuclear 
          deterrence mission.
Sec. 1660. Sense of Congress on the nuclear force improvement program of 
          the Air Force.
Sec. 1661. Senses of Congress on importance of cooperation and 
          collaboration between United States and United Kingdom on 
          nuclear issues and on 60th anniversary of Fleet Ballistic 
          Missile Program.
Sec. 1662. Sense of Congress on plan for implementation of Nuclear 
          Enterprise Reviews.
Sec. 1663. Sense of Congress and report on milestone A decision on long-
          range standoff weapon.
Sec. 1664. Sense of Congress on policy on the nuclear triad.
Sec. 1665. Report relating to the costs associated with extending the 
          life of the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile.

         Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs and Other Matters

Sec. 1671. Prohibitions on providing certain missile defense information 
          to Russian Federation.
Sec. 1672. Prohibition on integration of missile defense systems of 
          Russian Federation into missile defense systems of United 
          States.
Sec. 1673. Prohibition on integration of missile defense systems of 
          China into missile defense systems of United States.
Sec. 1674. Limitations on availability of funds for Patriot lower tier 
          air and missile defense capability of the Army.
Sec. 1675. Integration and interoperability of air and missile defense 
          capabilities of the United States.
Sec. 1676. Integration and interoperability of allied missile defense 
          capabilities.
Sec. 1677. Missile defense capability in Europe.
Sec. 1678. Availability of funds for Iron Dome short-range rocket 
          defense system.
Sec. 1679. Israeli cooperative missile defense program codevelopment and 
          coproduction.
Sec. 1680. Boost phase defense system.
Sec. 1681. Development and deployment of multiple-object kill vehicle 
          for missile defense of the United States homeland.
Sec. 1682. Requirement to replace capability enhancement I 
          exoatmospheric kill vehicles.
Sec. 1683. Designation of preferred location of additional missile 
          defense site in the United States and plan for expediting 
          deployment time of such site.
Sec. 1684. Additional missile defense sensor coverage for protection of 
          United States homeland.
Sec. 1685. Concept development of space-based missile defense layer.
Sec. 1686. Aegis Ashore capability development.
Sec. 1687. Development of requirements to support integrated air and 
          missile defense capabilities.
Sec. 1688. Extension of requirement for Comptroller General of the 
          United States review and assessment of missile defense 
          acquisition programs.
Sec. 1689. Report on medium range ballistic missile defense sensor 
          alternatives for enhanced defense of Hawaii.
Sec. 1690. Sense of Congress and report on validated military 
          requirement and Milestone A decision on prompt global strike 
          weapon system.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 2001. Short title.
Sec. 2002. Expiration of authorizations and amounts required to be 
          specified by law.
Sec. 2003. Effective date.

                  TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2104. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2013 project.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2108. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2016 
          project.

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.

              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2010 project.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 project.
Sec. 2308. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2012 
          project.
Sec. 2309. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2013 
          project.
Sec. 2310. Certification of optimal location for Joint Intelligence 
          Analysis Complex and plan for rotation of forces at Lajes 
          Field, Azores.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2012 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2407. Modification and extension of authority to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2014 project.
Sec. 2408. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 project.

   TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT 
                                 PROGRAM

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.

             TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification and extension of authority to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2013 project.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 projects.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2614. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.

          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
          closure activities funded through Department of Defense base 
          closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional Base Realignment and 
          Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                 Changes

Sec. 2801. Revision of congressional notification thresholds for reserve 
          facility expenditures and contributions to reflect 
          congressional notification thresholds for minor construction 
          and repair projects.
Sec. 2802. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
          and maintenance funds for construction projects outside the 
          United States.
Sec. 2803. Defense laboratory modernization pilot program.
Sec. 2804. Temporary authority for acceptance and use of contributions 
          for certain construction, maintenance, and repair projects 
          mutually beneficial to the Department of Defense and Kuwait 
          military forces.
Sec. 2805. Conveyance to Indian tribes of relocatable military housing 
          units at military installations in the United States.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Protection of Department of Defense installations.
Sec. 2812. Enhancement of authority to accept conditional gifts of real 
          property on behalf of military service academies.
Sec. 2813. Utility system conveyance authority.
Sec. 2814. Leasing of non-excess property of military departments and 
          Defense Agencies; treatment of value provided by local 
          education agencies and elementary and secondary schools.
Sec. 2815. Force-structure plan and infrastructure inventory and 
          assessment of infrastructure necessary to support the force 
          structure.
Sec. 2816. Temporary reporting requirements related to main operating 
          bases, forward operating sites, and cooperative security 
          locations.
Sec. 2817. Exemption of Army off-site use and off-site removal only non-
          mobile properties from certain excess property disposal 
          requirements.

   Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment

Sec. 2821. Limited exception to restriction on development of public 
          infrastructure in connection with realignment of Marine Corps 
          forces in Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 2822. Annual report on Government of Japan contributions toward 
          realignment of Marine Corps forces in Asia-Pacific region.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Release of reversionary interest retained as part of 
          conveyance to the Economic Development Alliance of Jefferson 
          County, Arkansas.
Sec. 2832. Land exchange authority, Mare Island Army Reserve Center, 
          Vallejo, California.
Sec. 2833. Land exchange, Navy Outlying Landing Field, Naval Air 
          Station, Whiting Field, Florida.
Sec. 2834. Release of property interests retained in connection with 
          land conveyance, Camp Villere, Louisiana.
Sec. 2835. Release of property interests retained in connection with 
          land conveyance, Fort Bliss Military Reservation, Texas.

                  Subtitle E--Military Land Withdrawals

Sec. 2841. Additional withdrawal and reservation of public land, Naval 
          Air Weapons Station China Lake, California.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 2851. Modification of Department of Defense guidance on use of 
          airfield pavement markings.
Sec. 2852. Extension of authority for establishment of commemorative 
          work in honor of Brigadier General Francis Marion.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

       TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

          Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Improvement to accountability of Department of Energy 
          employees and projects.
Sec. 3112. Stockpile responsiveness program.
Sec. 3113. Notification of cost overruns and Selected Acquisition 
          Reports for major alteration projects.
Sec. 3114. Root cause analyses for certain cost overruns.
Sec. 3115. Funding of laboratory-directed research and development 
          programs.
Sec. 3116. Hanford Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant contract 
          oversight.
Sec. 3117. Use of best practices for capital asset projects and nuclear 
          weapon life extension programs.
Sec. 3118. Research and development of advanced naval nuclear fuel 
          system based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3119. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3120. Establishment of microlab pilot program.
Sec. 3121. Prohibition on availability of funds for provision of defense 
          nuclear nonproliferation assistance to Russian Federation.
Sec. 3122. Prohibition on availability of funds for new fixed site 
          radiological portal monitors in foreign countries.
Sec. 3123. Limitation on availability of funds for certain arms control 
          and nonproliferation technologies.
Sec. 3124. Limitation on availability of funds for nuclear weapons 
          dismantlement.

                      Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Long-term plan for meeting national security requirements for 
          unencumbered uranium.
Sec. 3132. Defense nuclear nonproliferation management plan and reports.
Sec. 3133. Plan for deactivation and decommissioning of nonoperational 
          defense nuclear facilities.
Sec. 3134. Assessment of emergency preparedness of defense nuclear 
          facilities.
Sec. 3135. Modifications to cost-benefit analyses for competition of 
          management and operating contracts.
Sec. 3136. Interagency review of applications for the transfer of United 
          States civil nuclear technology.
Sec. 3137. Governance and management of nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 3138. Annual report on number of full-time equivalent employees and 
          contractor employees.
Sec. 3139. Development of strategy on risks to nonproliferation caused 
          by additive manufacturing.
Sec. 3140. Plutonium pit production capacity.
Sec. 3141. Assessments on nuclear proliferation risks and nuclear 
          nonproliferation opportunities.
Sec. 3142. Analysis of alternatives for Mobile Guardian Transporter 
          program.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Administration of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.

                  TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.

                   TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Sense of Congress regarding Maritime Security Fleet program.
Sec. 3503. Update of references to the Secretary of Transportation 
          regarding unemployment insurance and vessel operators.
Sec. 3504. Payment for Maritime Security Fleet vessels.
Sec. 3505. Melville Hall of United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3506. Cadet commitment agreements.
Sec. 3507. Student incentive payment agreements.
Sec. 3508. Short sea transportation defined.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
Sec. 4002. Clarification of applicability of undistributed reductions of 
          certain operation and maintenance funding among all operation 
          and maintenance funding.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance base requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.
SEC. 3. CONGRESSIONAL DEFENSE COMMITTEES.
    In this Act, the term ``congressional defense committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United 
States Code.
SEC. 4. BUDGETARY EFFECTS OF THIS ACT.
    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purposes of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, jointly submitted for printing in the 
Congressional Record by the Chairmen of the House and Senate Budget 
Committees, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to 
the vote on passage in the House acting first on the conference report 
or amendment between the Houses.

            DIVISION A--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORIZATIONS
                          TITLE I--PROCUREMENT

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 101. Authorization of appropriations.

                        Subtitle B--Army Programs

Sec. 111. Prioritization of upgraded UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters within 
          Army National Guard.
Sec. 112. Roadmap for replacement of A/MH-6 Mission Enhanced Little Bird 
          aircraft to meet special operations requirements.
Sec. 113. Report on options to accelerate replacement of UH-60A 
          Blackhawk helicopters of Army National Guard.
Sec. 114. Sense of Congress on tactical wheeled vehicle protection kits.

                        Subtitle C--Navy Programs

Sec. 121. Modification of CVN-78 class aircraft carrier program.
Sec. 122. Amendment to cost limitation baseline for CVN-78 class 
          aircraft carrier program.
Sec. 123. Extension and modification of limitation on availability of 
          funds for Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 124. Modification to multiyear procurement authority for Arleigh 
          Burke class destroyers and associated systems.
Sec. 125. Procurement of additional Arleigh Burke class destroyer.
Sec. 126. Refueling and complex overhaul of the U.S.S. George 
          Washington.
Sec. 127. Fleet Replenishment Oiler Program.
Sec. 128. Limitation on availability of funds for U.S.S. John F. Kennedy 
          (CVN-79).
Sec. 129. Limitation on availability of funds for U.S.S. Enterprise 
          (CVN-80).
Sec. 130. Limitation on availability of funds for Littoral Combat Ship.
Sec. 131. Reporting requirement for Ohio-class replacement submarine 
          program.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

Sec. 141. Backup inventory status of A-10 aircraft.
Sec. 142. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of A-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 143. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of EC-130H 
          Compass Call aircraft.
Sec. 144. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of Joint 
          Surveillance Target Attack Radar System, EC-130H Compass Call, 
          and Airborne Warning and Control System aircraft.
Sec. 145. Limitation on availability of funds for F-35A aircraft 
          procurement.
Sec. 146. Prohibition on availability of funds for retirement of KC-10 
          aircraft.
Sec. 147. Limitation on availability of funds for transfer of C-130 
          aircraft.
Sec. 148. Limitation on availability of funds for executive 
          communications upgrades for C-20 and C-37 aircraft.
Sec. 149. Limitation on availability of funds for T-1A Jayhawk aircraft.
Sec. 150. Notification of retirement of B-1, B-2, and B-52 bomber 
          aircraft.
Sec. 151. Inventory requirement for fighter aircraft of the Air Force.
Sec. 152. Sense of Congress regarding the OCONUS basing of F-35A 
          aircraft.

        Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

Sec. 161. Limitation on availability of funds for Joint Battle Command-
          Platform.
Sec. 162. Report on Army and Marine Corps modernization plan for small 
          arms.
Sec. 163. Study on use of different types of enhanced 5.56mm ammunition 
          by the Army and the Marine Corps.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 101. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for procurement for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, the Air 
Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4101.

                       Subtitle B--Army Programs

    SEC. 111. PRIORITIZATION OF UPGRADED UH-60 BLACKHAWK HELICOPTERS 
      WITHIN ARMY NATIONAL GUARD.
    (a) Prioritization of Upgrades.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall issue guidance regarding the fielding of upgraded UH-60 
Blackhawk helicopters to units of the Army National Guard. Such 
guidance shall prioritize for such fielding the units of the Army 
National Guard with assigned UH-60 helicopters that have the most 
flight hours and the highest annual usage rates within the UH-60 fleet 
of the Army National Guard, consistent with the force generation unit 
readiness requirements of the Army.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
Chief of the National Guard Bureau issues the guidance under subsection 
(a), the Chief shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that details such guidance.
    SEC. 112. ROADMAP FOR REPLACEMENT OF A/MH-6 MISSION ENHANCED LITTLE 
      BIRD AIRCRAFT TO MEET SPECIAL OPERATIONS REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Roadmap.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a roadmap for replacing A/MH-6 Mission 
Enhanced Little Bird aircraft to meet the rotary-wing, light attack, 
reconnaissance requirements particular to special operations.
    (b) Elements.--The roadmap under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An updated schedule and display of programmed A/MH-6 Block 
    3.0 modernization and upgrades, showing usable life of the fleet, 
    and the anticipated service life extensions of all A/MH-6 
    platforms.
        (2) A description of current and anticipated rotary-wing, light 
    attack, reconnaissance requirements and platforms particular to 
    special operations, including key performance parameters of 
    anticipated platforms.
        (3) The feasibility of service-common platforms satisfying 
    future rotary-wing, light attack, reconnaissance requirements 
    particular to special operations.
        (4) The feasibility of commercially available platforms 
    satisfying future rotary-wing, light attack, reconnaissance 
    requirements particular to special operations.
        (5) The anticipated funding requirements for the special 
    operation forces major force program for the development and 
    procurement of an A/MH-6 replacement platform if the service-common 
    platforms described in paragraph (3) are not available or if 
    commercially available platforms described in paragraph (4) are 
    leveraged.
        (6) A description of efforts as of the date of the roadmap to 
    coordinate with the military departments on a service-common 
    platform to satisfy replacement platform requirements.
        (7) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
    SEC. 113. REPORT ON OPTIONS TO ACCELERATE REPLACEMENT OF UH-60A 
      BLACKHAWK HELICOPTERS OF ARMY NATIONAL GUARD.
    Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary of the Army shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing 
detailed options for the potential acceleration of the replacement of 
all UH-60A helicopters of the Army National Guard by not later than 
September 30, 2020. The report shall include the following:
        (1) The additional funding and quantities required, listed by 
    each of fiscal years 2017 through 2020, for H-60M production, UH-
    60A-to-L RECAP, and UH-60L-to-V RECAP that is necessary to achieve 
    such replacement of all UH-60A helicopters by September 30, 2020.
        (2) Any industrial base limitations that may affect such 
    acceleration, including with respect to the production schedules 
    for the other variants of the UH-60 helicopter.
        (3) The potential effects of such acceleration on the planned 
    replacement of all UH-60A helicopters of the regular components of 
    the Armed Forces by September 30, 2025.
        (4) Identification of any additional funding or resources 
    required to train members of the National Guard to operate and 
    maintain UH-60M aircraft in order to achieve such replacement of 
    all UH-60A helicopters by September 30, 2020.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    SEC. 114. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON TACTICAL WHEELED VEHICLE PROTECTION 
      KITS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) members of the Army face an increasingly complex and 
    evolving threat environment that requires advanced and effective 
    technology to protect soldiers while allowing the soldiers to 
    effectively carry out the mission of the Army;
        (2) the heavy tactical vehicle protection kits program provides 
    the Army with improved and necessary ballistic protection for the 
    heavy tactical vehicle fleet;
        (3) a secure heavy tactical vehicle fleet provides the Army 
    with greater logistical tractability and offers soldiers the 
    necessary flexibility to tailor armor levels based on threat levels 
    and mission requirements; and
        (4) as Congress provides for a modern and secure Army, it is 
    necessary to provide the appropriate funding levels to meet the 
    tactical wheeled vehicle protection kits acquisition objectives of 
    the Army.

                       Subtitle C--Navy Programs

    SEC. 121. MODIFICATION OF CVN-78 CLASS AIRCRAFT CARRIER PROGRAM.
    (a) Reports on Design and Engineering Changes.--Subsection (f) of 
section 122 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2104), as added by 
section 121(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 692), is amended by adding at 
the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) CVN-78 class aircraft carriers change orders.--
            ``(A) As part of each report required under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretary shall include a description of new design and 
        engineering changes to CVN-78 class aircraft carriers if 
        applicable.
            ``(B) The additional reporting requirement in subparagraph 
        (A) shall include, with respect to CVN-78 class aircraft 
        carriers in each reporting period--
                ``(i) any design or engineering change with an 
            associated cost greater than $5,000,000;
                ``(ii) any program or ship cost increases for each 
            design or engineering change identified in subparagraph 
            (A); and
                ``(iii) any cost reduction achieved.
            ``(C) The Secretary and the Chief of Naval Operations, 
        without delegation, shall jointly certify the design and 
        engineering changes included in each report under paragraph 
        (1), as required by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph. Each 
        certification shall include a determination that each such 
        change--
                ``(i) serves the national security interests of the 
            United States; and
                ``(ii) cannot be deferred to a future ship because of 
            operational necessity, safety, or substantial cost 
            reduction that still meets threshold requirements.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments.--Such subsection is further amended--
        (1) by striking the heading and inserting the following new 
    heading: ``Requirements for CVN-78 Class Aircraft Carriers''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking the heading and inserting the 
    following new heading: ``CVN-79 quarterly cost estimate''.
    SEC. 122. AMENDMENT TO COST LIMITATION BASELINE FOR CVN-78 CLASS 
      AIRCRAFT CARRIER PROGRAM.
    (a) Cost Limitation.--Section 122(a)(2) of the John Warner National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 
Stat. 2104), as amended by section 121(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
691), is further amended by striking ``$11,498,000,000'' and inserting 
``$11,398,000,000''.
    (b) Factor for Adjustment.--Subsection (b) of such section 122, as 
amended by section 121(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2014, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(8) With respect to the aircraft carrier designated as CVN-
    79, the amounts of increases not exceeding $100,000,000 if the 
    Chief of Naval Operations determines that achieving the amount set 
    forth in subsection (a)(2) (as amended by section 122(a) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016) would 
    result in unacceptable reductions to the operational capability of 
    the ship.''.
    SEC. 123. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY 
      OF FUNDS FOR LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.
    Section 124(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 693), as amended by section 123 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3314), is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``this Act, the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' 
    McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, or 
    otherwise made available for fiscal years 2014 or 2015'' and 
    inserting ``this Act, the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016, or otherwise made available for fiscal years 
    2014, 2015, or 2016''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(6) A Littoral Combat Ship seaframe acquisition strategy for 
    the Littoral Combat Ships designated as LCS 25 through LCS 32, 
    including upgrades to be installed on these ships that were 
    identified for the upgraded Littoral Combat Ship, which is proposed 
    to commence with LCS 33.
        ``(7) A Littoral Combat Ship mission module acquisition 
    strategy to reach the total acquisition quantity of each mission 
    module.
        ``(8) A cost and schedule plan to outfit Flight 0 and Flight 0+ 
    Littoral Combat Ships with capabilities identified for the upgraded 
    Littoral Combat Ship.
        ``(9) A current Test and Evaluation Master Plan for the 
    Littoral Combat Ship Mission Modules, approved by the Director of 
    Operational Test and Evaluation, which includes the performance 
    levels expected to be demonstrated during developmental testing for 
    each component and mission module prior to commencing the 
    associated operational test phase.''.
    SEC. 124. MODIFICATION TO MULTIYEAR PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR 
      ARLEIGH BURKE CLASS DESTROYERS AND ASSOCIATED SYSTEMS.
    Section 123(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1655) is amended by inserting 
``or Flight III'' after ``Flight IIA''.
    SEC. 125. PROCUREMENT OF ADDITIONAL ARLEIGH BURKE CLASS DESTROYER.
    (a) Procurement Authority.--
        (1) Additional destroyer.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
    procure one Arleigh Burke class destroyer, in addition to any other 
    procurement of such ships otherwise authorized by law, to be 
    procured either--
            (A) as an addition to the contract covering the 10 Arleigh 
        Burke class destroyers authorized to be procured under section 
        123 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
        2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1655); or
            (B) under a separate contract in fiscal year 2018.
        (2) Incremental funding.--The Secretary may employ incremental 
    funding for the procurement authorized under paragraph (1).
    (b) Condition on Out-year Contract Payments.--A contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under such contract for any fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2016 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for such fiscal year.
    SEC. 126. REFUELING AND COMPLEX OVERHAUL OF THE U.S.S. GEORGE 
      WASHINGTON.
    (a) Refueling and Complex Overhaul.--The Secretary of the Navy may 
carry out the nuclear refueling and complex overhaul of the U.S.S. 
George Washington (CVN-73).
    (b) Use of Incremental Funding.--With respect to any contract 
entered into under subsection (a) for the nuclear refueling and complex 
overhaul of the U.S.S. George Washington, the Secretary may use 
incremental funding for a period not to exceed six years after advance 
procurement funds for such nuclear refueling and complex overhaul 
effort are first obligated.
    (c) Condition for Out-year Contract Payments.--Any contract entered 
into under subsection (a) shall provide that any obligation of the 
United States to make a payment under the contract for a fiscal year 
after fiscal year 2016 is subject to the availability of appropriations 
for that purpose for that later fiscal year.
    SEC. 127. FLEET REPLENISHMENT OILER PROGRAM.
    (a) Contract Authority.--The Secretary of the Navy may enter into 
one or more contracts to procure up to six Fleet Replenishment Oilers. 
Such procurements may also include advance procurement for economic 
order quantity and long lead time materials, beginning with the lead 
ship, commencing not earlier than fiscal year 2016.
    (b) Liability.--Any contract entered into under subsection (a) 
shall provide that any obligation of the United States to make a 
payment under the contract is subject to the availability of 
appropriations for that purpose, and that total liability to the 
Government for termination of any contract entered into shall be 
limited to the total amount of funding obligated at the time of 
termination.
    SEC. 128. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR U.S.S. JOHN F. 
      KENNEDY (CVN-79).
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for procurement 
for the U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN-79), $100,000,000 may not be 
obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of the Navy 
submits to the congressional defense committees the certification under 
subsection (b)(1) or the notification under paragraph (2) of such 
subsection, as the case may be, and the reports under subsections (c) 
and (d).
    (b) Certification Regarding Full Ship Shock Trials.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), not later 
    than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
    Secretary of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a certification that the Navy will conduct full ship 
    shock trials on the U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford (CVN-78) prior to the 
    first deployment of such ship.
        (2) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
    certification required under paragraph (1) if the Secretary submits 
    to the congressional defense committees a notification of such 
    waiver, including--
            (A) the rationale of the Secretary for issuing such waiver;
            (B) a certification that the Secretary has analyzed and 
        accepts the operational risk of the U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford 
        deploying without having conducted full ship shock trials; and
            (C) a certification that full ship shock trials will be 
        completed on the U.S.S. Gerald R. Ford after the first 
        deployment of such ship and prior to the first major 
        maintenance availability of such ship.
    (c) Report on Costs Relating to CVN-79 and CVN-80.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report that evaluates cost 
    issues related to the U.S.S. John F. Kennedy (CVN-79) and the 
    U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80).
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) Options to achieve ship end cost of no more than 
        $10,000,000,000.
            (B) Options to freeze the design of CVN-79 for CVN-80, with 
        exceptions only for changes due to full ship shock trials or 
        other significant test and evaluation results.
            (C) Options to reduce the plans cost for CVN-80 to less 
        than 50 percent of the CVN-79 plans cost.
            (D) Options to transition all non-nuclear Government-
        furnished equipment, including launch and arresting equipment, 
        to contractor-furnished equipment.
            (E) Options to build the ships at the most economic pace, 
        such as four years between ships.
            (F) A business case analysis for the Enterprise Air Search 
        Radar modification to CVN-79 and CVN-80.
            (G) A business case analysis for the two-phase CVN-79 
        delivery proposal and impact on fleet deployments.
    (d) Report on Future Development.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
    the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on potential requirements, capabilities, and alternatives 
    for the future development of aircraft carriers that would replace 
    or supplement the CVN-78 class aircraft carrier.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) A description of fleet, sea-based tactical aviation 
        capability requirements for a range of operational scenarios 
        beginning in the 2025 timeframe.
            (B) A description of alternative aircraft carrier designs 
        that meet the requirements described under subparagraph (A).
            (C) A description of nuclear and non-nuclear propulsion 
        options.
            (D) A description of tonnage options ranging from less than 
        20,000 tons to greater than 100,000 tons.
            (E) Requirements for unmanned systems integration from 
        inception.
            (F) Developmental, procurement, and lifecycle cost 
        assessment of alternatives.
            (G) A notional acquisition strategy for the development and 
        construction of alternatives.
            (H) A description of shipbuilding industrial base 
        considerations and a plan to ensure opportunity for competition 
        among alternatives.
            (I) A description of funding and timing considerations 
        related to developing the Annual Long-Range Plan for 
        Construction of Naval Vessels required under section 231 of 
        title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 129. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR U.S.S. ENTERPRISE 
      (CVN-80).
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for advance 
procurement for the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80), $191,400,000 may not be 
obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of the Navy 
submits to the congressional defense committees the certification under 
subsection (b) and the report under subsection (c).
    (b) Certification Regarding CVN-80 Design.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a certification 
that the design of the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80) will repeat the 
design of CVN-79, with modifications only for significant test and 
evaluation results or significant cost reduction initiatives that still 
meet threshold requirements.
    (c) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report that details the 
    costs of the plans related to the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80).
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following elements, reported by total cost and cost by fiscal year, 
    with a detailed description and a justification for why each cost 
    is recurring and attributable to the U.S.S. Enterprise (CVN-80):
            (A) Overall plans.
            (B) Propulsion plant detail design.
            (C) Platform detail design.
            (D) Lead yard services and hull planning yard.
            (E) Platform detail design (Steam and Electric Plant 
        Planning Yard).
            (F) Other.
    SEC. 130. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR LITTORAL COMBAT 
      SHIP.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for research and development, 
design, construction, procurement, or advanced procurement of materials 
for the Littoral Combat Ships designated as LCS 33 or subsequent, not 
more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended until Secretary of 
the Navy submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and 
the House of Representatives each of the following:
        (1) A capabilities based assessment, or equivalent report, to 
    assess capability gaps and associated capability requirements and 
    risks for the upgraded Littoral Combat Ship, which is proposed to 
    commence with LCS 33. Such assessment shall conform with the Joint 
    Capabilities Integration and Development System, including Chairman 
    of the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3170.01H.
        (2) A certification that the Joint Requirements Oversight 
    Council has validated an updated Capabilities Development Document 
    for the upgraded Littoral Combat Ship.
        (3) A report describing the upgraded Littoral Combat Ship 
    modernization, which shall, at a minimum, include the following 
    elements:
            (A) A description of capabilities that the Littoral Combat 
        Ship program delivers, and a description of how these relate to 
        the characteristics of the future joint force identified in the 
        Capstone Concept for Joint Operations, concept of operations, 
        and integrated architecture documents.
            (B) A summary of analyses and studies conducted on Littoral 
        Combat Ship modernization.
            (C) A concept of operations for Littoral Combat Ship at the 
        operational level and tactical level describing how they 
        integrate and synchronize with joint and combined forces to 
        achieve the Joint Force Commander's intent.
            (D) A description of threat systems of potential 
        adversaries that are projected or assessed to reach initial 
        operational capability within 15 years against which the 
        lethality and survivability of the Littoral Combat Ship should 
        be determined.
            (E) A plan and timeline for Littoral Combat Ship 
        modernization program execution.
            (F) A description of system capabilities required for 
        Littoral Combat Ship modernization, including key performance 
        parameters and key system attributes.
            (G) A plan for family of systems or systems of systems 
        synchronization.
            (H) A plan for information technology and national security 
        systems supportability.
            (I) A plan for intelligence supportability.
            (J) A plan for electromagnetic environmental effects and 
        spectrum supportability.
            (K) A description of assets required to achieve initial 
        operational capability of a Littoral Combat Ship modernization 
        increment.
            (L) A schedule and initial operational capability and full 
        operational capability definitions.
            (M) A description of doctrine, organization, training, 
        materiel, leadership, education, personnel, facilities, and 
        policy considerations.
            (N) A description of other system attributes.
        (4) A plan for future periodic combat systems upgrades, which 
    are necessary to ensure relevant capability throughout the Littoral 
    Combat Ship or Frigate class service lives, using the process 
    described in paragraph (3).
    SEC. 131. REPORTING REQUIREMENT FOR OHIO-CLASS REPLACEMENT 
      SUBMARINE PROGRAM.
    If the budget of the President submitted to Congress under section 
1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, for a fiscal year includes a 
request for funds for the Ohio-class replacement submarine program, the 
Secretary of Defense shall include in the budget justification 
materials submitted to Congress in support of the Department of Defense 
budget for such fiscal year a report that includes the following 
elements regarding such program (described in terms of both fiscal year 
2010 dollars and current fiscal year dollars as of the date of the 
report):
        (1) Lead ship end cost (with plans).
        (2) Lead ship end cost (less plans).
        (3) Lead ship non-recurring engineering cost.
        (4) Average follow-on ship cost.
        (5) Average operations and sustainment cost per hull per year.
        (6) The average follow-on ship affordability target as 
    determined by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics.
        (7) The operations and sustainment cost per hull per year 
    affordability target as determined by the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.

                     Subtitle D--Air Force Programs

    SEC. 141. BACKUP INVENTORY STATUS OF A-10 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Maximum Number.--In carrying out section 133(b)(2)(A) of the 
Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3316), the 
Secretary of the Air Force may not move more than 18 A-10 aircraft in 
the active component to backup flying status pursuant to an 
authorization made by the Secretary of Defense under such section.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Such section 133(b)(2)(A) is amended by 
striking ``36'' and inserting ``18''.
    SEC. 142. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF A-
      10 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Retirement.--Except as 
provided by section 141, none of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2016 for the Air Force may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare 
to retire, or place in storage or on backup aircraft inventory status 
any A-10 aircraft.
    (b) Additional Limitations on Retirement.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided by section 141, and in 
    addition to the limitation in subsection (a), during the period 
    before December 31, 2016, the Secretary of the Air Force may not 
    retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or on backup flying 
    status any A-10 aircraft.
        (2) Minimum inventory requirement.--The Secretary of the Air 
    Force shall ensure the Air Force maintains a minimum of 171 A-10 
    aircraft designated as primary mission aircraft inventory.
    (c) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Significant Reductions 
in Manning Levels.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the Air 
Force may be obligated or expended to make significant reductions to 
manning levels with respect to any A-10 aircraft squadrons or 
divisions.
    (d) Additional Limitation on Significant Reductions in Manning 
Levels.--In addition to the limitation in subsection (c), during the 
period before December 31, 2016, the Secretary of the Air Force may not 
make significant reductions to manning levels with respect to any A-10 
aircraft squadrons or divisions.
    (e) Study on Replacement Capability Requirements or Mission 
Platform for the A-10 Aircraft.--
        (1) Independent assessment required.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
        commission an appropriate entity outside the Department of 
        Defense to conduct an assessment of the required capabilities 
        or mission platform to replace the A-10 aircraft. This 
        assessment would represent preparatory work to inform an 
        analysis of alternatives.
            (B) Elements.--The assessment required under subparagraph 
        (A) shall include each of the following:
                (i) Future needs analysis for the current A-10 aircraft 
            mission set to include troops-in-contact/close air support, 
            air interdiction, strike control and reconnaissance, and 
            combat search and rescue support in both contested and 
            uncontested battle environments. At a minimum, the needs 
            analysis should specifically address the following areas:

                    (I) The ability to safely and effectively conduct 
                troops-in-contact/danger close missions or missions in 
                close proximity to civilians in the presence of the air 
                defenses found with enemy ground maneuver units.
                    (II) The ability to effectively target and destroy 
                moving, camouflaged, or dug-in troops, artillery, 
                armor, and armored personnel carriers.
                    (III) The ability to engage, target, and destroy 
                tanks and armored personnel carriers, including with 
                respect to the carrying capacity of armor-piercing 
                weaponry, including mounted cannons and missiles.
                    (IV) The ability to remain within visual range of 
                friendly forces and targets to facilitate 
                responsiveness to ground forces and minimize re-attack 
                times.
                    (V) The ability to safely conduct close air support 
                beneath low cloud ceilings and in reduced visibilities 
                at low airspeeds in the presence of the air defenses 
                found with enemy ground maneuver units.
                    (VI) The capability to enable the pilot and 
                aircraft to survive attacks stemming from small arms, 
                machine guns, man-portable air-defense systems, and 
                lower caliber anti-aircraft artillery organic or 
                attached to enemy ground forces and maneuver units.
                    (VII) The ability to communicate effectively with 
                ground forces and downed pilots, including in 
                communications jamming or satellite-denied 
                environments.
                    (VIII) The ability to execute the missions 
                described in subclauses (I), (II), (III), and (IV) in a 
                GPS- or satellite-denied environment with or without 
                sensors.
                    (IX) The ability to deliver multiple lethal firing 
                passes and sustain long loiter endurance to support 
                friendly forces throughout extended ground engagements.
                    (X) The ability to operate from unprepared dirt, 
                grass, and narrow road runways and to generate high 
                sortie rates under these austere conditions.

                (ii) Identification and assessment of gaps in the 
            ability of existing and programmed mission platforms in 
            providing required capabilities to conduct missions 
            specified in clause (i) in both contested and uncontested 
            battle environments.
                (iii) Assessment of operational effectiveness of 
            existing and programmed mission platforms to conduct 
            missions specified in clause (i) in both contested and 
            uncontested battle environments.
                (iv) Assessment of probability of likelihood of 
            conducting missions requiring troops-in-contact/close air 
            support operations specified in clause (i) in contested 
            environments as compared to uncontested environments.
                (v) Any other matters the independent entity or the 
            Secretary of the Air Force determines to be appropriate.
        (2) Report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2016, the 
        Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
        defense committees a report that includes the assessment 
        required under paragraph (1).
            (B) Form.--The report required under subparagraph (A) may 
        be submitted in classified form, but shall also contain an 
        unclassified executive summary and may contain an unclassified 
        annex.
        (3) Nonduplication of effort.--If any information required 
    under paragraph (1) has been included in another report or 
    notification previously submitted to the congressional defense 
    committees by law, the Secretary of the Air Force may provide a 
    list of such reports and notifications at the time of submitting 
    the report required under paragraph (2) instead of including such 
    information in such report.
    SEC. 143. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
      EC-130H COMPASS CALL AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition on Availability of Funds for Retirement.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2016 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to retire, prepare to retire, or place in storage or on backup 
aircraft inventory status any EC-130H Compass Call aircraft.
    (b) Additional Prohibition on Retirement.--In addition to the 
prohibition in subsection (a), during the period preceding December 31, 
2016, the Secretary of the Air Force may not retire, prepare to retire, 
or place in storage or on backup flying status any EC-130H Compass Call 
aircraft.
    (c) Report on Retirement of EC-130H Compass Call Aircraft.--Not 
later than September 30, 2016, the Secretary of the Air Force shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes, 
at a minimum, the following:
        (1) The rationale for the retirement of existing EC-130H 
    Compass Call aircraft, including an operational analysis of the 
    impact of such retirements on the warfighting requirements of the 
    combatant commanders.
        (2) Future needs analysis for the current EC-130H Compass Call 
    aircraft electronic warfare mission set to include suppression of 
    sophisticated enemy air defense systems, advanced radar jamming, 
    avoiding radar detection, communications, sensing, satellite 
    navigation, command and control, and battlefield awareness.
        (3) A review of operating concepts for airborne electronic 
    attack.
        (4) An assessment of upgrades to the electronic warfare systems 
    of EC-130H Compass Call aircraft, the costs of such upgrades, and 
    expected upgrades through 2025, and the expected service life of 
    EC-130H Compass Call aircraft.
        (5) A review of the global proliferation of more sophisticated 
    air defenses and advanced commercial digital electronic devices 
    which counter the airborne electronic attack capabilities of the 
    United States by state and non-state actors.
        (6) An assessment of the ability of the current EC-130H Compass 
    Call fleet to meet tasking requirements of the combatant 
    commanders.
        (7) A plan for how the Air Force will recapitalize the 
    capability requirement of the EC-130H Compass Call mission in the 
    future, whether through a replacement program or by integrating 
    such capabilities onto an existing platform.
        (8) If the plan under paragraph (7) includes integrating such 
    capabilities onto an existing platform, an analysis that verifies 
    that such platform has the space, weight, cooling, and power 
    necessary to support the integration of the EC-130H Compass Call 
    capability.
        (9) Such other matters relating to the required mission 
    capabilities and transition of the EC-130H Compass Call fleet as 
    the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (d) Form.--The report under subsection (c) may be submitted in 
classified form, but shall also contain an unclassified executive 
summary and may contain an unclassified annex.
    (e) Nonduplication of Effort.--If any information required in the 
report under subsection (c) has been included in another report or 
notification previously submitted to the congressional defense 
committees by law, the Secretary of the Air Force may provide a list of 
such reports and notifications at the time of submitting the report 
required under subsection (c) instead of including such information in 
such report.
    SEC. 144. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
      JOINT SURVEILLANCE TARGET ATTACK RADAR SYSTEM, EC-130H COMPASS 
      CALL, AND AIRBORNE WARNING AND CONTROL SYSTEM AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal years 2016 or 2017 for the Air Force may be 
obligated or expended to retire, or prepare to retire, any covered 
aircraft.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to individual covered aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be non-operational because of 
mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
    (c) Covered Aircraft.--In this section, the term ``covered 
aircraft'' means the following:
        (1) Joint Surveillance Target Attack Radar System aircraft.
        (2) EC-130H Compass Call aircraft.
        (3) Airborne Warning and Control System aircraft.
    SEC. 145. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR F-35A AIRCRAFT 
      PROCUREMENT.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for aircraft procurement, Air 
Force, not more than $4,285,000,000 may be obligated for the 
procurement of F-35A aircraft until the Secretary of the Air Force 
certifies to the congressional defense committees that F-35A aircraft 
delivered during fiscal year 2018 will have full combat capability, as 
determined as of the date of the enactment of this Act, with Block 3F 
hardware, software, and weapons carriage.
    SEC. 146. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF 
      KC-10 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal years 2016 or 2017 for the Air Force may be 
obligated or expended to retire, or prepare to retire, any KC-10 
aircraft.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to individual KC-10 aircraft that the Secretary of the Air Force 
determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be non-operational because of 
mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
    SEC. 147. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OF C-130 
      AIRCRAFT.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the Air Force may be 
obligated or expended to transfer from one facility of the Department 
of Defense to another any C-130H aircraft, initiate any C-130 manpower 
authorization adjustments, retire or prepare to retire any C-130H 
aircraft, or close any C-130H unit until a period of 90 days elapses 
following the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force, the 
Secretary of the Army, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the 
Chief of Staff of the Army, in consultation with the commanders of the 
XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne Division, and the United States 
Army Special Operations Command, jointly certify to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives that--
        (1) the Secretary of the Air Force will maintain dedicated C-
    130 wings to support the daily training and contingency 
    requirements of the XVIII Airborne Corps, the 82nd Airborne 
    Division, and the United States Army Special Operations Command at 
    manning levels required to support and operate the number of 
    aircraft that existed as part of regular and reserve Air Force 
    operations in support of such units as of September 30, 2014; or
        (2) the failure to maintain such dedicated C-130 wings will not 
    adversely affect the daily training requirement of such airborne 
    and special operations units.
    SEC. 148. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR EXECUTIVE 
      COMMUNICATIONS UPGRADES FOR C-20 AND C-37 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2016 for the Air Force may be obligated or 
expended to upgrade the executive communications of C-20 and C-37 
aircraft until the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force 
certifies in writing to the congressional defense committees that such 
upgrades do not--
        (1) cause such aircraft to exceed any weight limitation; or
        (2) reduce the operational capability of such aircraft.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the limitation in subsection 
(a) if the Secretary--
        (1) determines that such waiver is necessary for the national 
    security interests of the United States; and
        (2) notifies the congressional defense committees of such 
    waiver.
    SEC. 149. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR T-1A JAYHAWK 
      AIRCRAFT.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for aircraft procurement, Air 
Force, for avionics modification to the T-1A Jayhawk aircraft, not more 
than 85 percent may be obligated or expended until a period of 30 days 
has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force 
submits to the congressional defense committees the report required 
under section 142 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3320).
    SEC. 150. NOTIFICATION OF RETIREMENT OF B-1, B-2, AND B-52 BOMBER 
      AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Notification.--Except as provided by subsection (b), during the 
period preceding the date on which the long-range strike bomber 
aircraft achieves initial operational capability, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may not retire or prepare to retire covered aircraft during a 
fiscal year unless the Secretary includes in the defense budget 
materials for that fiscal year a notification of the proposed 
retirement, including the rationale for the retirement, the effects of 
the retirement, and how the Secretary will mitigate any risks relating 
to the retirement.
    (b) Exception.--The notification requirement in subsection (a) 
shall not apply to individual covered aircraft that the Secretary 
determines, on a case-by-case basis, to be non-operational because of 
mishaps, other damage, or being uneconomical to repair.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered aircraft'' means B-1, B-2, and B-52 
    bomber aircraft.
        (2) The term ``defense budget materials'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 231(f) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 151. INVENTORY REQUIREMENT FOR FIGHTER AIRCRAFT OF THE AIR 
      FORCE.
    (a) Inventory Requirement.--During the two-year period beginning on 
October 1, 2015, the Secretary of the Air Force shall maintain a total 
aircraft inventory of fighter aircraft of not less than 1,900 aircraft, 
and a total primary mission aircraft inventory (combat-coded) of not 
less than 1,100 fighter aircraft.
    (b) Budget Information Regarding Retirement of Fighter Aircraft.--
        (1) Report.--If the Secretary proposes to retire fighter 
    aircraft in a fiscal year, the Secretary shall include in the 
    materials submitted in support of the budget of the President for 
    that fiscal year (as submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of 
    title 31, United States Code) a report setting forth the following:
            (A) The rationale and appropriate supporting analysis for 
        the proposed retirement.
            (B) An assessment of the implications of such retirement 
        for the Air Force, the Air National Guard, and the Air Force 
        Reserve for the force mix ratio of fighter aircraft.
            (C) Such other matters relating to the proposed retirement 
        as the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to individual 
    fighter aircraft that the Secretary determines, on a case-by-case 
    basis, to be non-operational because of mishaps, other damage, or 
    being uneconomical to repair.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``fighter aircraft'' means an aircraft that is 
    designated by a basic mission design series of A-10, F-15, F-16, F-
    22, or F-35.
        (2) The term ``primary mission aircraft inventory'' means 
    aircraft assigned to meet the primary aircraft authorization to a 
    unit for the performance of its wartime mission.
    SEC. 152. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING THE OCONUS BASING OF F-35A 
      AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Finding.--Congress finds that the Department of Defense is 
continuing its process of permanently stationing the F-35 aircraft at 
installations in the continental United States and forward-basing such 
aircraft outside the continental United States.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of the Air Force, in the strategic basing process for the F-
35A aircraft, should continue to consider the benefits derived from 
sites that--
        (1) are capable of hosting fighter-based bilateral and 
    multilateral training opportunities with international partners;
        (2) have sufficient airspace and range capabilities and 
    capacity to meet the training requirements;
        (3) have existing facilities to support personnel, operations, 
    and logistics associated with the flying mission;
        (4) have limited encroachment that would adversely impact 
    training or operations; and
        (5) minimize the overall construction and operational costs.

       Subtitle E--Defense-wide, Joint, and Multiservice Matters

    SEC. 161. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR JOINT BATTLE 
      COMMAND-PLATFORM.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for joint battle 
command-platform equipment, not more than 75 percent may be obligated 
or expended until a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on 
which the Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, 
and Logistics submits to the congressional defense committees the 
report under subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Assistant Secretary 
of the Army for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report that provides a detailed 
test and evaluation plan to address the effectiveness, suitability, and 
survivability shortfalls of the joint battle command-platform 
identified by the Director of Operational Test and Evaluation in the 
fiscal year 2014 report of the Director submitted to Congress.
    SEC. 162. REPORT ON ARMY AND MARINE CORPS MODERNIZATION PLAN FOR 
      SMALL ARMS.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army and the Secretary of 
the Navy shall jointly submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the plan of the 
Army and the Marine Corps to modernize small arms for the Army and the 
Marine Corps during the 15-year period beginning on the date of such 
plan, including the mechanisms to be used to promote competition among 
suppliers of small arms and small arms parts in achieving the plan.
    (b) Small Arms.--The small arms covered by the plan under 
subsection (a) shall include the following:
        (1) Pistols.
        (2) Carbines.
        (3) Rifles and automatic rifles.
        (4) Light machine guns.
        (5) Such other small arms as the Secretaries consider 
    appropriate for purposes of the report required by subsection (a).
    (c) Non-standard Small Arms.--In addition to the arms specified in 
subsection (b), the plan under subsection (a) shall also address non-
standard small arms not currently in the small arms inventory of the 
Army or the Marine Corps.
    SEC. 163. STUDY ON USE OF DIFFERENT TYPES OF ENHANCED 5.56MM 
      AMMUNITION BY THE ARMY AND THE MARINE CORPS.
    (a) Use of Different Types of Enhanced 5.56mm Ammunition.--
        (1) Study.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into a contract with a federally funded research and development 
    center to conduct a study on the use of different types of enhanced 
    5.56mm ammunition by the Army and the Marine Corps.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 90 days after the date on which 
    the contract is entered into under paragraph (1), the federally 
    funded research and development center conducting the study under 
    such paragraph shall submit to the Secretary the study, including 
    any findings and recommendations of the federally funded research 
    and development center.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary receives the study under subsection (a)(2), the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the study.
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The study, including any findings and recommendations 
        of the federally funded research and development center that 
        conducted the study.
            (B) An explanation of the reasons for the Army and the 
        Marine Corps to use in combat two different types of enhanced 
        5.56mm ammunition.
            (C) An explanation of the appropriateness, effectiveness, 
        and suitability issues that may arise from the use of such 
        different types of ammunition.
            (D) An explanation of any additional costs that have 
        resulted from the use of such different types of ammunition.
            (E) An explanation of any future plans of the Army or the 
        Marine Corps to eventually transition to using in combat one 
        standard type of enhanced 5.56mm ammunition.
            (F) If there are no plans described in subparagraph (E), an 
        analysis of the potential benefits of a transition described in 
        such subparagraph, including the timeline for such a transition 
        to occur.
            (G) Any findings, recommendations, comments, or plans that 
        the Secretary determines appropriate.

         TITLE II--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 201. Authorization of appropriations.

     Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 211. Centers for Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnership.
Sec. 212.  Expansion of eligibility for financial assistance under 
          Department of Defense Science, Mathematics, and Research for 
          Transformation Program to include citizens of countries 
          participating in the Technical Cooperation Program.
Sec. 213. Expansion of education partnerships to support technology 
          transfer and transition.
Sec. 214. Improvement to coordination and communication of defense 
          research activities.
Sec. 215. Reauthorization of Global Research Watch program.
Sec. 216. Reauthorization of defense research and development rapid 
          innovation program.
Sec. 217. Science and technology activities to support business systems 
          information technology acquisition programs.
Sec. 218. Department of Defense technology offset program to build and 
          maintain the military technological superiority of the United 
          States.
Sec. 219. Limitation on availability of funds for F-15 infrared search 
          and track capability development.
Sec. 220. Limitation on availability of funds for development of the 
          shallow water combat submersible.
Sec. 221. Limitation on availability of funds for the advanced 
          development and manufacturing facility under the medical 
          countermeasure program.
Sec. 222. Limitation on availability of funds for distributed common 
          ground system of the Army.
Sec. 223. Limitation on availability of funds for distributed common 
          ground system of the United States Special Operations Command.
Sec. 224. Limitation on availability of funds for Integrated Personnel 
          and Pay System of the Army.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 231. Streamlining the Joint Federated Assurance Center.
Sec. 232. Demonstration of Persistent Close Air Support capabilities.
Sec. 233. Strategies for engagement with Historically Black Colleges and 
          Universities and Minority-serving Institutions of Higher 
          Education.
Sec. 234. Report on commercial-off-the-shelf wide-area surveillance 
          systems for Army tactical unmanned aerial systems.
Sec. 235. Report on Tactical Combat Training System Increment II.
Sec. 236. Report on technology readiness levels of the technologies and 
          capabilities critical to the long-range strike bomber 
          aircraft.
Sec. 237. Assessment of air-land mobile tactical communications and data 
          network requirements and capabilities.
Sec. 238. Study of field failures involving counterfeit electronic 
          parts.
Sec. 239. Airborne data link plan.
Sec. 240. Plan for advanced weapons technology war games.
Sec. 241. Independent assessment of F135 engine program.
Sec. 242. Comptroller General review of autonomic logistics information 
          system for F-35 Lightning II aircraft.
Sec. 243. Sense of Congress regarding facilitation of a high quality 
          technical workforce.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 201. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation as specified in the funding table in section 4201.

    Subtitle B--Program Requirements, Restrictions, and Limitations

    SEC. 211. CENTERS FOR SCIENCE, TECHNOLOGY, AND ENGINEERING 
      PARTNERSHIP.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 2367 the following new section:
``Sec. 2368. Centers for Science, Technology, and Engineering 
    Partnership
    ``(a) Designation.--(1) The Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall designate each 
science and technology reinvention laboratory as a Center for Science, 
Technology, and Engineering Partnership (in this section referred to as 
`Centers') in the recognized core competencies of the designee.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall establish a policy to 
encourage the Secretary of each military department to reengineer 
management and business processes and adopt best-business and personnel 
practices at the Centers of the Secretary concerned in connection with 
the capability requirements of the Centers, so as to serve as 
recognized leaders in such capabilities throughout the Department of 
Defense and in the national technology and industrial base.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense, acting through the directors of the 
Centers, may conduct one or more pilot programs, consistent with 
applicable requirements of law, to test any practices referred to in 
paragraph (2) that the Directors determine could--
        ``(A) improve the efficiency and effectiveness of operations at 
    Centers;
        ``(B) improve the support provided by the Centers for the 
    elements of the Department of Defense who use the services of the 
    Centers; and
        ``(C) enhance capabilities by reducing the cost and improving 
    the performance and efficiency of executing laboratory missions.
    ``(b) Public-private Partnerships.--(1) To achieve one or more 
objectives set forth in paragraph (2), the Secretary may authorize and 
establish incentives for the Director of a Center to enter into public-
private cooperative arrangements (in this section referred to as a 
`public-private partnership') to provide for any of the following:
        ``(A) For employees of the Center, academia, private industry, 
    State and local governments, or other entities outside the 
    Department of Defense to perform (under contract, subcontract, or 
    otherwise) work related to the capabilities of the Center, 
    including any work that--
            ``(i) involves one or more capabilities of the Center; and
            ``(ii) may be applicable to both the Department and 
        commercial entities.
        ``(B) For private industry or other entities outside the 
    Department of Defense to use for either Government or commercial 
    purposes any capabilities of the Center that are not fully used for 
    Department of Defense activities for any period determined to be 
    consistent with the needs of the Department of Defense.
    ``(2) The objectives for exercising the authority provided in 
paragraph (1) are as follows:
        ``(A) To maximize the use of the capacity of a Center.
        ``(B) To reduce or eliminate the cost of ownership of a Center 
    by the Department of Defense.
        ``(C) To reduce the cost of science, technology, and 
    engineering activities of the Department of Defense.
        ``(D) To leverage private sector investment in--
            ``(i) such efforts as research and equipment 
        recapitalization for a Center; and
            ``(ii) the promotion of the undertaking of commercial 
        business ventures based on the capabilities of a Center, as 
        determined by the director of the Center.
        ``(E) To foster cooperation and technology transfer between the 
    armed forces, academia, private industry, and State and local 
    governments.
        ``(F) To increase access by a Center to a skilled technical 
    workforce that can contribute to the effective and efficient 
    execution of the missions of the Department of Defense.
        ``(G) To increase the ability of a Center to access and use 
    non-Department of Defense methods to develop and innovate and 
    access capabilities that contribute to the effective and efficient 
    execution of the missions of the Department of Defense.
    ``(3)(A) Public-private partnerships entered into under paragraph 
(1) may be used for purposes relating to technology transfer and other 
authorities described in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) The authorities described in this subparagraph are provisions 
of law that provide for cooperation and partnership by the Department 
of Defense with academia, private industry, and State and local 
governments, including the following:
        ``(i) Sections 3371 through 3375 of title 5.
        ``(ii) Sections 2194, 2358, 2371, 2511, 2539b, and 2563 of this 
    title.
        ``(iii) Section 209 of title 35.
        ``(iv) Sections 8, 12, and 23 of the Stevenson-Wydler 
    Technology Innovation Act of 1980 (15 U.S.C. 3706, 3710a, and 
    3715).
    ``(c) Private Sector Use of Excess Capacity.--Any capability of a 
Center made available to the private sector may be used to perform 
research and testing activities in order to make more efficient and 
economical use of Government-owned capabilities and encourage the 
creation and preservation of jobs to ensure the availability of a 
workforce with the necessary research and technical skills to meet the 
needs of the armed forces.
    ``(d) Crediting of Amounts for Performance.--Amounts received by a 
Center for work performed under a public-private partnership may--
        ``(1) be credited to the appropriation or fund, including a 
    working-capital or revolving fund, that incurs the cost of 
    performing the work; or
        ``(2) be used by the Director of the Center as the Director 
    considers appropriate and consistent with section 219 of the Duncan 
    Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
    (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note).
    ``(e) Availability of Excess Capacities to Private-sector 
Partners.--Capacities of a Center may be made available for use by a 
private-sector entity under this section only if--
        ``(1) the use of the capacities will not have a significant 
    adverse effect on the performance of the Center or the ability of 
    the Center to achieve the mission of the Center, as determined by 
    the Director of the Center; and
        ``(2) the private-sector entity agrees--
            ``(A) to reimburse the Department of Defense when required 
        in accordance with the guidance of the Department for the 
        direct and indirect costs (including any rental costs) that are 
        attributable to the use of the capabilities by the private-
        sector entity, as determined by the Secretary of the military 
        departments; and
            ``(B) to hold harmless and indemnify the United States 
        from--
                ``(i) any claim for damages or injury to any person or 
            property arising out of the use of the capabilities, except 
            under the circumstances described in section 2563(c)(3) of 
            this title; and
                ``(ii) any liability or claim for damages or injury to 
            any person or property arising out of a decision by the 
            Secretary to suspend or terminate that use of capabilities 
            during a war or national emergency.
    ``(f) Construction of Provision.--Nothing in this section may be 
construed to authorize a change, otherwise prohibited by law, from the 
performance of work at a Center by personnel of the Department of 
Defense to performance by a contractor.
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `capabilities', with respect to a Center for 
    Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnership, means the 
    facilities, equipment, personnel, intellectual property, and other 
    assets that support the core competencies of the Center.
        ``(2) The term `national technology and industrial base' has 
    the meaning given that term in section 2500 of this title.
        ``(3) The term `science and technology reinvention laboratory' 
    means a science and technology reinvention laboratory designated 
    under section 1105 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
2367 the following new item:

``2368. Centers for Science, Technology, and Engineering Partnership.''.
    SEC. 212. EXPANSION OF ELIGIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE UNDER 
      DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SCIENCE, MATHEMATICS, AND RESEARCH FOR 
      TRANSFORMATION PROGRAM TO INCLUDE CITIZENS OF COUNTRIES 
      PARTICIPATING IN THE TECHNICAL COOPERATION PROGRAM.
    Section 2192a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by inserting ``or, subject to 
    subsection (g), a country the government of which is a party to The 
    Technical Cooperation Program (TTCP) memorandum of understanding of 
    October 24, 1995'' after ``United States'';
        (2) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
        (3) by inserting after section (f) the following new subsection 
    (g):
    ``(g) Limitation on Participation.--(1) The Secretary may not award 
scholarships or fellowships under this section to more than five 
individuals described in paragraph (2) per year.
    ``(2) An individual described in this paragraph is an individual 
who--
        ``(A) has not previously been awarded a scholarship or 
    fellowship under the program under this section;
        ``(B) is not a citizen of the United States; and
        ``(C) is a citizen of a country the government of which is a 
    party to The Technical Cooperation Program (TTCP) memorandum of 
    understanding of October 24, 1995.''.
    SEC. 213. EXPANSION OF EDUCATION PARTNERSHIPS TO SUPPORT TECHNOLOGY 
      TRANSFER AND TRANSITION.
    Section 2194 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``business, law, technology 
    transfer or transition'' after ``mathematics,''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (6) as 
        paragraphs (5) through (7), respectively;
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
        paragraph (4):
        ``(4) providing in the defense laboratory sabbatical 
    opportunities for faculty and internship opportunities for 
    students;''; and
            (C) in paragraphs (5) and (6), as redesignated by 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``research projects'' both places 
        it appears and inserting ``projects, including research and 
        technology transfer or transition projects''.
    SEC. 214. IMPROVEMENT TO COORDINATION AND COMMUNICATION OF DEFENSE 
      RESEARCH ACTIVITIES.
    (a) In General.--Section 2364 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(a) Coordination of Department of Defense Research, Development, 
and Technological Data.--The Secretary of Defense shall promote, 
monitor, and evaluate programs for the communication and exchange of 
research, development, and technological data--
        ``(1) among the Defense research facilities, combatant 
    commands, and other organizations that are involved in developing 
    for the Department of Defense the technological requirements for 
    new items for use by combat forces;
        ``(2) among Defense research facilities and other offices, 
    agencies, and bureaus in the Department that are engaged in related 
    technological matters;
        ``(3) among other research facilities and other departments or 
    agencies of the Federal Government that are engaged in research, 
    development, and technological matters;
        ``(4) among private commercial, research institution, and 
    university entities engaged in research, development, and 
    technological matters potentially relevant to defense on a 
    voluntary basis;
        ``(5) to the extent practicable, to achieve full awareness of 
    scientific and technological advancement and innovation wherever it 
    may occur, whether funded by the Department of Defense, another 
    element of the Federal Government, or other entities; and
        ``(6) through development and distribution of clear technical 
    communications to the public, military operators, acquisition 
    organizations, and civilian and military decision-makers that 
    conveys successes of research and engineering activities supported 
    by the Department and the contributions of such activities to 
    support national needs.'';
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by striking paragraph (3) and inserting the following 
        new paragraph:
        ``(3) that the managers of such facilities have broad latitude 
    to choose research and development projects based on awareness of 
    activities throughout the technology domain, including within the 
    Federal Government, the Department of Defense, public and private 
    research institutions and universities, and the global commercial 
    marketplace;'';
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (C) in paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) that, in light of Defense research facilities being 
    funded by the public, Defense research facilities are broadly 
    authorized and encouraged to support national technological 
    development goals and support technological missions of other 
    departments and agencies of the Federal Government, when such 
    support is determined by the Secretary of Defense to be in the best 
    interests of the Federal Government.''.
        (3) in the section heading, by inserting ``and technology 
    domain awareness'' after ``activities''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 139 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 2364 and inserting the following:

``2364. Coordination and communication of defense research activities 
          and technology domain awareness.''.
    SEC. 215. REAUTHORIZATION OF GLOBAL RESEARCH WATCH PROGRAM.
    Section 2365 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b), by inserting 
    ``and private sector persons'' after ``foreign nations'' both 
    places it appears; and
        (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``September 30, 2015'' and 
    inserting ``September 30, 2025''.
    SEC. 216. REAUTHORIZATION OF DEFENSE RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT RAPID 
      INNOVATION PROGRAM.
    (a) Extension of Program.--Section 1073 of the Ike Skelton National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 
U.S.C. 2359a note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking ``2015'' and inserting 
    ``2023''; and
        (2) in subsection (g), by striking ``September 30, 2015'' and 
    inserting ``September 30, 2023''.
    (b) Modification of Guidelines for Operation of Program.--
Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
        (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
        ``(1) The issuance of an annual broad agency announcement or 
    the use of any other competitive or merit-based processes by the 
    Department of Defense for candidate proposals in support of defense 
    acquisition programs as described in subsection (a).'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the second sentence;
        (3) in paragraph (4)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``be funded under 
        the program for more than two years'' and inserting ``receive 
        more than a total of two years of funding under the program''; 
        and
            (B) by striking the second sentence; and
        (4) by adding at the end, the following new paragraphs:
        ``(5) Mechanisms to facilitate transition of follow-on or 
    current projects carried out under the program into defense 
    acquisition programs, through the use of the authorities of section 
    819 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
    (Public Law 111-84; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) or such other authorities 
    as may be appropriate to conduct further testing, low rate 
    production, or full rate production of technologies developed under 
    the program.
        ``(6) Projects are selected using merit-based selection 
    procedures and the selection of projects is not subject to undue 
    influence by Congress or other Federal agencies.''.
    (c) Repeal of Report Requirement.--Such section is further 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (f); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
    SEC. 217. SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY ACTIVITIES TO SUPPORT BUSINESS 
      SYSTEMS INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the 
Deputy Chief Management Officer, and the Chief Information Officer, 
shall establish a set of science, technology, and innovation activities 
to improve the acquisition outcomes of major automated information 
systems through improved performance and reduced developmental and life 
cycle costs.
    (b) Execution of Activities.--The activities established under 
subsection (a) shall be carried out by such military departments and 
Defense Agencies as the Under Secretary and the Deputy Chief Management 
Officer consider appropriate.
    (c) Activities.--
        (1) In general.--The set of activities established under 
    subsection (a) may include the following:
            (A) Development of capabilities in Department of Defense 
        laboratories, test centers, and federally funded research and 
        development centers to provide technical support for 
        acquisition program management and business process re-
        engineering activities.
            (B) Funding of intramural and extramural research and 
        development activities as described in subsection (e).
        (2) Current activities.--The Secretary shall identify the 
    current activities described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of 
    paragraph (1) that are being carried out as of the date of the 
    enactment of this Act. The Secretary shall consider such current 
    activities in determining the set of activities to establish 
    pursuant to subsection (a).
    (d) Gap Analysis.--In establishing the set of activities under 
subsection (a), not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretaries of the 
military departments and the heads of the Defense Agencies, shall 
conduct a gap analysis to identify activities that are not, as of such 
date, being pursued in the current science and technology program of 
the Department. The Secretary shall use such analysis in determining--
        (1) the set of activities to establish pursuant to subsection 
    (a) that carry out the purposes specified in subsection (c)(1); and
        (2) the proposed funding requirements and timelines.
    (e) Funding of Intramural and Extramural Research and 
Development.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out the set of activities required 
    by subsection (a), the Secretary may award grants or contracts to 
    eligible entities to carry out intramural or extramural research 
    and development in areas of interest described in paragraph (3).
        (2) Eligible entities.--For purposes of this subsection, an 
    eligible entity includes the following:
            (A) Entities in the defense industry.
            (B) Institutions of higher education.
            (C) Small businesses.
            (D) Nontraditional defense contractors (as defined in 
        section 2302 of title 10, United States Code).
            (E) Federally funded research and development centers, 
        primarily for the purpose of improving technical expertise to 
        support acquisition efforts.
            (F) Nonprofit research institutions.
            (G) Government laboratories and test centers, primarily for 
        the purpose of improving technical expertise to support 
        acquisition efforts.
        (3) Areas of interest.--The areas of interest described in this 
    paragraph are the following:
            (A) Management innovation, including personnel and 
        financial management policy innovation.
            (B) Business process re-engineering.
            (C) Systems engineering of information technology business 
        systems.
            (D) Cloud computing to support business systems and 
        business processes.
            (E) Software development, including systems and techniques 
        to limit unique interfaces and simplify processes to customize 
        commercial software to meet the needs of the Department of 
        Defense.
            (F) Hardware development, including systems and techniques 
        to limit unique interfaces and simplify processes to customize 
        commercial hardware to meet the needs of the Department of 
        Defense.
            (G) Development of methodologies and tools to support 
        development and operational test of large and complex business 
        systems.
            (H) Analysis tools to allow decision-makers to make 
        tradeoffs between requirements, costs, technical risks, and 
        schedule in major automated information system acquisition 
        programs.
            (I) Information security in major automated information 
        system systems.
            (J) Innovative acquisition policies and practices to 
        streamline acquisition of information technology systems.
            (K) Such other areas as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
    (f) Priorities.--
        (1) In general.--In carrying out the set of activities required 
    by subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to--
            (A) projects that--
                (i) address the innovation and technology needs of the 
            Department of Defense; and
                (ii) support activities of initiatives, programs, and 
            offices identified by the Under Secretary and Deputy Chief 
            Management Officer; and
            (B) the projects and programs identified in paragraph (2).
        (2) Projects and programs identified.--The projects and 
    programs identified in this paragraph are the following:
            (A) Major automated information system programs.
            (B) Projects and programs under the oversight of the Deputy 
        Chief Management Officer.
            (C) Projects and programs relating to defense procurement 
        acquisition policy.
            (D) Projects and programs of the agencies and field 
        activities of the Office of the Secretary of Defense that 
        support business missions such as finance, human resources, 
        security, management, logistics, and contract management.
            (E) Military and civilian personnel policy development for 
        information technology workforce.
    SEC. 218. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY OFFSET PROGRAM TO BUILD 
      AND MAINTAIN THE MILITARY TECHNOLOGICAL SUPERIORITY OF THE UNITED 
      STATES.
    (a) Program Established.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    technology offset program to build and maintain the military 
    technological superiority of the United States by--
            (A) accelerating the fielding of offset technologies that 
        would help counter technological advantages of potential 
        adversaries of the United States, including directed energy, 
        low-cost, high-speed munitions, autonomous systems, undersea 
        warfare, cyber technology, and intelligence data analytics, 
        developed using research funding of the Department of Defense 
        and accelerating the commercialization of such technologies; 
        and
            (B) developing and implementing new policies and 
        acquisition and business practices.
        (2) Guidelines.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue guidelines for the 
    operation of the program established under paragraph (1), 
    including--
            (A) criteria for an application for funding by a military 
        department, Defense Agency, or a combatant command;
            (B) the purposes for which such a department, agency, or 
        command may apply for funds and appropriate requirements for 
        technology development or commercialization to be supported 
        using program funds;
            (C) the priorities, if any, to be provided to field or 
        commercialize offset technologies developed by certain types of 
        research funding of the Department; and
            (D) criteria for evaluation of an application for funding 
        or changes to policies or acquisition and business practices by 
        such a department, agency, or command for purposes of the 
        program.
    (b) Applications for Funding.--
        (1) In general.--Under the program established under subsection 
    (a)(1), not less frequently than annually, the Secretary shall 
    solicit from the heads of the military departments, the Defense 
    Agencies, and the combatant commands applications for funding to be 
    used to enter into contracts, cooperative agreements, or other 
    transaction agreements entered into pursuant to section 2371b of 
    title 10, United States Code, as added by section 815,with 
    appropriate entities for the fielding or commercialization of 
    technologies.
        (2) Treatment pursuant to certain congressional rules.--Nothing 
    in this section shall be interpreted to require any official of the 
    Department of Defense to provide funding under this section to any 
    Congressional earmark as defined pursuant to clause 9 of rule XXI 
    of the Rules of the House of Representatives or any congressionally 
    directed spending item as defined pursuant to paragraph 5 of rule 
    XLIV of the Standing Rules of the Senate.
    (c) Funding.--
        (1) In general.--Subject to the availability of appropriations 
    for such purpose, of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
    this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for 
    research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, not more 
    than $400,000,000 may be used for each such fiscal year for the 
    program established under subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Amount for directed energy.--Of the funds specified in 
    paragraph (1) for any of fiscal years 2016 through 2020, not more 
    than $200,000,000 may be used for each such fiscal year for 
    activities in the field of directed energy.
    (d) Transfer Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary may transfer funds available for 
    the program established under subsection (a)(1) to the research, 
    development, test, and evaluation accounts of a military 
    department, Defense Agency, or a combatant command pursuant to an 
    application, or any part of an application, that the Secretary 
    determines would support the purposes of the program.
        (2) Supplement not supplant.--The transfer authority provided 
    in paragraph (1) is in addition to any other transfer authority 
    available to the Secretary of Defense.
    (e) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--The authority to carry out the program under 
    subsection (a)(1) shall terminate on September 30, 2020.
        (2) Transfer after termination.--Any amounts made available for 
    the program that remain available for obligation on the date on 
    which the program terminates may be transferred under subsection 
    (d) during the 180-day period beginning on the date of the 
    termination of the program.
    SEC. 219. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR F-15 INFRARED 
      SEARCH AND TRACK CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for F-15 infrared search 
and track capability, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or 
expended until a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on 
which the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional defense 
committees the report under subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
requirements and cost estimates for the development and procurement of 
infrared search and track capability for F/A-18 and F-15 aircraft of 
the Navy and the Air Force. The report shall include the following:
        (1) A comparison of the requirements between the F/A-18 and F-
    15 aircraft infrared search and track development efforts of the 
    Navy and the Air Force.
        (2) An explanation of any differences between the F/A-18 and F-
    15 aircraft infrared search and track capability development 
    efforts of the Navy and the Air Force.
        (3) A summary of the schedules and required funding to develop 
    and field such capability.
        (4) An explanation of any need for the Navy and the Air Force 
    to field different F/A-18 and F-15 aircraft infrared search and 
    track systems.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
    SEC. 220. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DEVELOPMENT OF 
      THE SHALLOW WATER COMBAT SUBMERSIBLE.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the 
development of the shallow water combat submersible of the United 
States Special Operations Command, not more than 50 percent may be 
obligated or expended until a period of 15 days elapses following the 
later of the date on which--
        (1) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
    and Logistics designates a civilian official to be responsible for 
    oversight of and assistance to the United States Special Operations 
    Command for all undersea mobility programs; and
        (2) the Under Secretary, in coordination with the Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity 
    Conflict and the Commander of the United States Special Operations 
    Command, submits to the congressional defense committees the report 
    described in subsection (b).
    (b) Report Described.--The report described in this subsection is a 
report on the shallow water combat submersible program that includes 
the following:
        (1) An analysis of the reasons for cost and schedule overruns 
    associated with the program, including with respect to the 
    performance of contractors and subcontractors.
        (2) A revised timeline for initial and full operational 
    capability of the shallow water combat submersible.
        (3) A description of the challenges associated with the 
    integration with dry deck shelter and other diving technologies.
        (4) The projected cost to meet the total unit acquisition 
    objective.
        (5) A plan to prevent, identify, and mitigate any additional 
    cost and schedule overruns.
        (6) A description of any opportunities to recover cost or 
    schedule overruns.
        (7) A description of any lessons that the Under Secretary may 
    have learned from the shallow water combat submersible program that 
    could be applied to future undersea mobility acquisition programs.
        (8) Any other matters that the Under Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    SEC. 221. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE ADVANCED 
      DEVELOPMENT AND MANUFACTURING FACILITY UNDER THE MEDICAL 
      COUNTERMEASURE PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, for the advanced 
development and manufacturing facility, and the associated activities 
performed at such facility, under the medical countermeasure program of 
the chemical and biological defense program, not more than 75 percent 
may be obligated or expended until a period of 45 days elapses 
following the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the 
congressional defense committees the report under subsection (b).
    (b) Report.--The Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on the advanced development and 
manufacturing facility under the medical countermeasure program that 
includes the following:
        (1) An overall description of the advanced development and 
    manufacturing facility, including validated Department of Defense 
    requirements.
        (2) Program goals, proposed metrics of performance, and 
    anticipated procurement and operations and maintenance costs during 
    the period covered by the current future years defense program 
    under section 221 of title 10, United States Code.
        (3) The results of any analysis of alternatives and efficiency 
    reviews conducted by the Secretary that justifies the manufacturing 
    and privately financed construction of an advanced manufacturing 
    and development facility rather than using other programs and 
    facilities of the Federal Government or industry facilities for 
    advanced development and manufacturing of medical countermeasures.
        (4) An independent cost-benefit analysis that justifies the 
    manufacturing and privately financed construction of an advanced 
    manufacturing and development facility described in paragraph (3).
        (5) If no independent cost-benefit analysis makes the 
    justification described in paragraph (4), an explanation for why 
    such manufacturing and privately financed construction cannot be so 
    justified.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
    appropriate.
    (c) Comptroller General Review.--Not later than 60 days after the 
date on which the Secretary submits the report under subsection (b), 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a review of such report.
    SEC. 222. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DISTRIBUTED 
      COMMON GROUND SYSTEM OF THE ARMY.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Army, for the distributed common 
ground system of the Army, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or 
expended until the Secretary of the Army--
        (1) conducts a review of the program planning for the 
    distributed common ground system of the Army; and
        (2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees the 
    report required by subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report on the review of the distributed 
    common ground system of the Army conducted under subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Matters included.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A review of the segmentation of Increment 2 of the 
        distributed common ground system program of the Army into 
        discrete software components with the associated requirements 
        of each component.
            (B) Identification of each component of Increment 2 of the 
        distributed common ground system of the Army for which 
        commercial software exists that is capable of fulfilling most 
        or all of the system requirements for each such component.
            (C) A cost analysis of each such commercial software that 
        compares performance with projected cost.
            (D) Determination of the degree to which commercial 
        software solutions are compliant with the standards required by 
        the framework and guidance for the Intelligence Community 
        Information Technology Enterprise, the Defense Intelligence 
        Information Enterprise, and the Joint Information Environment.
            (E) Identification of each component of Increment 2 of the 
        distributed common ground system of the Army that the Secretary 
        determines may be acquired through competitive means.
            (F) An acquisition plan for Increment 2 of the distributed 
        common ground system of the Army that prioritizes the 
        acquisition of commercial software components, including a data 
        integration layer, in time to meet the projected deployment 
        schedule for Increment 2.
            (G) A review of the timetable for the distributed common 
        ground system program of the Army in order to determine whether 
        there is a practical, executable acquisition strategy, 
        including the use of operational capability demonstrations, 
        that could lead to an initial operating capability of Increment 
        2 of the distributed common ground system of the Army prior to 
        fiscal year 2017.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives.
    SEC. 223. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DISTRIBUTED 
      COMMON GROUND SYSTEM OF THE UNITED STATES SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
      COMMAND.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, for the United States 
Special Operations Command for the distributed common ground system, 
not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until the 
Commander of the United States Special Operations Command submits to 
the congressional defense committees the report required by subsection 
(b).
    (b) Report Required.--The Commander shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees and the Permanent Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the House of Representatives a report on the 
distributed common ground system. Such report shall include the 
following:
        (1) A review of the segmentation of the distributed common 
    ground system special operations forces program into discrete 
    software components with the associated requirements of each 
    component.
        (2) Identification of each component of the distributed common 
    ground system special operations forces program for which 
    commercial software exists that is capable of fulfilling most or 
    all of the system requirements for each such component.
        (3) A cost analysis of each such commercial software that 
    compares performance with projected cost.
        (4) A determination of the degree to which commercial software 
    solutions are compliant with the standards required by the 
    framework and guidance for the Intelligence Community Information 
    Technology Enterprise, the Defense Intelligence Information 
    Enterprise, and the Joint Information Environment.
        (5) Identification of each component of the distributed common 
    ground system special operations forces program that the Commander 
    determines may be acquired through competitive means.
        (6) An assessment of the extent to which elements of the 
    distributed common ground system special operations forces program 
    could be modified to increase commercial acquisition opportunities.
        (7) An acquisition plan that leads to full operational 
    capability prior to fiscal year 2019.
    SEC. 224. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR INTEGRATED 
      PERSONNEL AND PAY SYSTEM OF THE ARMY.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, development, test, 
and evaluation, Army, for the integrated personnel and pay system of 
the Army, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until 
the date on which the Secretary of the Army submits to the 
congressional defense committees a report that includes the following:
        (1) Updated and validated information regarding the performance 
    of the current legacy personnel and pay system of the Army for each 
    high-level objective and business outcome described in the business 
    case for IPPS-A Increment II, dated December 2014, including 
    justifications for threshold and objective values for the 
    integrated personnel and pay system of the Army.
        (2) An explanation how the integrated personnel and pay system 
    of the Army will enable significant change throughout the entire 
    human resources enterprise.
        (3) A description for how the implementation of the 
    capabilities in the integrated personnel and pay system of the Army 
    will result in changes to the capabilities and services to be 
    provided by the Defense Finance and Accounting Services, including 
    an estimate of cost savings and manpower savings resulting from 
    elimination of duplicative functions.
        (4) A description of alternative program approaches that could 
    reduce the overall cost of development and deployment for the 
    integrated personnel and pay system of the Army without delaying 
    the current program schedule by more than six months.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 231. STREAMLINING THE JOINT FEDERATED ASSURANCE CENTER.
    Section 937(c)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``, in coordination with 
    the Center for Assured Software of the National Security Agency,''; 
    and
        (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``, in coordination with 
    the Defense Microelectronics Activity,''.
    SEC. 232. DEMONSTRATION OF PERSISTENT CLOSE AIR SUPPORT 
      CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Joint Demonstration Required.--Subject to the availability of 
funds, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Army, and 
the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency may 
jointly conduct a demonstration of the persistent close air support 
capability during fiscal year 2016.
    (b) Parameters of Demonstration.--
        (1) Selection and equipment of aircraft.--If the demonstration 
    under subsection (a) is conducted, the Secretary of the Air Force 
    shall select and equip at least two aircraft for use in the 
    demonstration that the Secretary otherwise intends to use for close 
    air support.
        (2) Close air support operations.--If the demonstration under 
    subsection (a) is conducted, the demonstration shall include close 
    air support operations that involve the following:
            (A) Multiple tactical radio networks representing diverse 
        ground force user communities.
            (B) Two-way digital exchanges of situational awareness 
        data, video, and calls for fire between aircraft and ground 
        users without modification to aircraft operational flight 
        profiles.
            (C) Real-time sharing of blue force, aircraft, and target 
        location data to reduce risks of fratricide.
            (D) Lightweight digital tools based on commercial-off-the-
        shelf technology for pilots and joint tactical air controllers.
            (E) Operations in simple and complex operating 
        environments.
    (c) Assessment.--If the demonstration under subsection (a) is 
conducted, the Secretary of the Air Force, the Secretary of the Army, 
and the Director of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency shall 
jointly--
        (1) assess the effect of the capabilities demonstrated as part 
    of the demonstration required by subsection (a) on--
            (A) the time required to conduct close air support 
        operations;
            (B) the effectiveness of blue force in achieving tactical 
        objectives; and
            (C) the risk of fratricide and collateral damage;
        (2) estimate the costs that would be incurred in transitioning 
    the technology used in the persistent close air support capability 
    to the Army and the Air Force; and
        (3) provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing 
    on the results of the demonstration, the assessment under paragraph 
    (1), and the cost estimates under paragraph (2) by December 1, 
    2016.
    SEC. 233. STRATEGIES FOR ENGAGEMENT WITH HISTORICALLY BLACK 
      COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES AND MINORITY-SERVING INSTITUTIONS OF 
      HIGHER EDUCATION.
    (a) Basic Research Entities.--
        (1) Strategy.--The heads of each basic research entity shall 
    each develop a strategy for how to engage with and support the 
    development of scientific, technical, engineering, and mathematics 
    capabilities of covered educational institutions in carrying out 
    section 2362 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Elements.--Each strategy under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) Goals and vision for maintaining a credible and 
        sustainable program relating to the engagement and support 
        under the strategy.
            (B) Metrics to enhance scientific, technical, engineering, 
        and mathematics capabilities at covered educational 
        institutions, including with respect to measuring progress 
        toward increasing the success of such institutions to compete 
        for broader research funding sources other than set-aside 
        funds.
            (C) Promotion of mentoring opportunities between covered 
        educational institutions and other research institutions.
            (D) Regular assessment of activities that are used to 
        develop, maintain, and grow scientific, technical, engineering, 
        and mathematics capabilities.
            (E) Inclusion of faculty of covered educational 
        institutions into program reviews, peer reviews, and other 
        similar activities.
            (F) Targeting of undergraduate, graduate, and postgraduate 
        students at covered educational institutions for inclusion into 
        research or internship opportunities within the military 
        department.
    (b) Office of the Secretary.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
develop and implement a strategy for how to engage with and support the 
development of scientific, technical, engineering, and mathematics 
capabilities of covered educational institutions pursuant to the 
strategies developed under subsection (a).
    (c) Submission.--
        (1) Basic research entities.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the heads of each basic research 
    entity shall each submit to the congressional defense committees 
    the strategy developed by the head under subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Office of the secretary.--Not later than one year after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees the strategy 
    developed under subsection (b).
    (d) Covered Institution Defined.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``basic research entity'' means an entity of the 
    Department of Defense that executes research, development, test, 
    and evaluation budget activity 1 funding, as described in the 
    Department of Defense Financial Management Regulation.
        (2) The term ``covered educational institution'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 2362(e) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
    SEC. 234. REPORT ON COMMERCIAL-OFF-THE-SHELF WIDE-AREA SURVEILLANCE 
      SYSTEMS FOR ARMY TACTICAL UNMANNED AERIAL SYSTEMS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Army shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report that contains the findings of 
a market survey and assessment of commercial-off-the-shelf wide-area 
surveillance sensors operationally suitable for insertion into the 
tactical unmanned aerial systems of the Army.
    (b) Elements.--The market survey and assessment contained in the 
report under subsection (a) shall include--
        (1) specific details regarding the capabilities of current and 
    commercial-off-the-shelf wide-area surveillance sensors that are, 
    or could be, used on tactical unmanned aerial systems of the Army, 
    including--
            (A) daytime and nighttime monitoring coverage;
            (B) video resolution outputs;
            (C) bandwidth requirements;
            (D) activity-based intelligence and forensic capabilities;
            (E) simultaneous region of interest monitoring capability;
            (F) interoperability with other sensors and subsystems 
        currently used on such tactical unmanned aerial systems;
            (G) sensor weight;
            (H) sensor cost;
            (I) frame rates;
            (J) on-board processing capabilities; and
            (K) any other factors the Secretary considers relevant;
        (2) an assessment of the effect on such tactical unmanned 
    aerial systems due to the insertion of commercial-off-the-shelf 
    wide-area surveillance sensors; and
        (3) recommendations on the advisability and feasibility to 
    upgrade or enhance wide-area surveillance sensors of such tactical 
    unmanned aerial systems, as considered appropriate by the 
    Secretary.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) may contain a classified 
annex.
    SEC. 235. REPORT ON TACTICAL COMBAT TRAINING SYSTEM INCREMENT II.
    (a) Report.--Not later than January 29, 2016, the Secretary of the 
Navy and the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the baseline and 
alternatives to the Tactical Air Combat Training System (TCTS) 
Increment II of the Navy.
    (b) Contents.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An explanation of the rationale for a new start TCTS II 
    program as compared to an incremental upgrade to the existing TCTS 
    system.
        (2) An estimate of total cost to develop, procure, and replace 
    the existing Department of the Navy TCTS architecture with an 
    encrypted TCTS II compared to upgrades to existing TCTS.
        (3) A cost estimate and schedule comparison of achieving 
    encryption requirements into the existing TCTS program as compared 
    to TCTS II.
        (4) A review of joint Department of the Air Force and the 
    Department of the Navy investment in live-virtual-constructive 
    advanced air combat training and planned timeline for inclusion 
    into TCTS II architecture.
        (5) A cost estimate to integrate F-35 aircraft with TCTS II and 
    achieve interoperability between the Department of the Navy and 
    Department of the Air Force.
        (6) A cost estimate for coalition partners to achieve TCTS II 
    interoperability within the Department of Defense.
        (7) An assessment of risks posed by non-interoperable TCTS 
    systems within the Department of the Navy and the Department of the 
    Air Force.
        (8) An explanation of the acquisition strategy for the TCTS 
    program.
        (9) An explanation of key performance parameters for the TCTS 
    II program.
        (10) Any other information the Secretary of the Navy and 
    Secretary of the Air Force determine is appropriate to include.
    SEC. 236. REPORT ON TECHNOLOGY READINESS LEVELS OF THE TECHNOLOGIES 
      AND CAPABILITIES CRITICAL TO THE LONG-RANGE STRIKE BOMBER 
      AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the technology readiness 
levels of the technologies and capabilities critical to the long-range 
strike bomber aircraft.
    (b) Review by Comptroller General of the United States.--Not later 
than 60 days after the report of the Secretary is submitted under 
subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall 
review the report and submit to the congressional defense committees an 
assessment of the matters contained in the report.
    SEC. 237. ASSESSMENT OF AIR-LAND MOBILE TACTICAL COMMUNICATIONS AND 
      DATA NETWORK REQUIREMENTS AND CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Director of Cost Assessment and 
Program Evaluation shall seek to enter into a contract with a federally 
funded research and development center to conduct a comprehensive 
assessment of current and future requirements and capabilities of the 
Army with respect to air-land ad hoc, mobile tactical communications 
and data networks, including the technological feasibility, 
suitability, and survivability of such networks.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Concepts, capabilities, and capacities of current or future 
    communications and data network systems to meet the requirements of 
    current or future tactical operations effectively, efficiently, and 
    affordably.
        (2) Software requirements and capabilities, particularly with 
    respect to communications and data network waveforms.
        (3) Hardware requirements and capabilities, particularly with 
    respect to receiver and transmission technology, tactical 
    communications, and data radios at all levels and on all platforms, 
    all associated technologies, and their integration, compatibility, 
    and interoperability.
        (4) Any other matters relevant or necessary for a comprehensive 
    assessment of tactical networks or networking in the Warfighter 
    Information Network-Tactical (Increments 1 and 2).
    (c) Independent Entity.--The Director shall select a federally 
funded research and development center with direct, long-standing, and 
demonstrated experience and expertise in program test and evaluation of 
concepts, requirements, and technologies for joint tactical 
communications and data networking to perform the assessment under 
subsection (a).
    (d) Report Required.--Not later than April 30, 2016, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense commitments a 
report including the findings and recommendations of the assessment 
conducted under subsection (a), together with the separate comments of 
the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Army.
    SEC. 238. STUDY OF FIELD FAILURES INVOLVING COUNTERFEIT ELECTRONIC 
      PARTS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a hardware 
assurance study to assess the presence, scope, and effect on Department 
of Defense operations of counterfeit electronic parts that have passed 
through the supply chain of the Department and into fielded systems.
    (b) Matters Included.--The study under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) The technical analysis conducted under paragraph (1) of 
    subsection (c).
        (2) The report on the technical assessment submitted under 
    paragraph (3)(B) of subsection (c).
        (3) Recommendations for such legislative and administrative 
    action, including budget requirements, as the Secretary considers 
    necessary to conduct sampling and technical hardware analyses of 
    counterfeit parts in identified areas of high concern.
    (c) Execution and Technical Analysis.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary shall direct the executive agent 
    for printed circuit board technology designated under section 
    256(a) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2501 note) to 
    coordinate the execution of the study under subsection (a) using 
    capabilities of the Department in effect on the day before the date 
    of the enactment of this Act to conduct a technical analysis on a 
    sample of failed electronic parts in fielded systems.
        (2) Elements.--The technical analysis required by paragraph (1) 
    shall include the following:
            (A) The selection of a representative sample of electronic 
        component types, including digital, mixed-signal, and analog 
        integrated circuits.
            (B) An assessment of the presence of counterfeit parts, 
        including causes and attributes of failures of any identified 
        counterfeit part.
            (C) For components found to have counterfeit parts, an 
        assessment of the effect of the counterfeit part in the failure 
        mechanism.
            (D) For cases with counterfeit parts contributing to the 
        failure, a determination of the failure attributes, factors, 
        and effects on subsystem and system level reliability, 
        readiness, and performance.
        (3) Technical assessment.--For any parts assessed under 
    paragraph (2) that demonstrate unusual or suspicious failure 
    mechanisms, the federation established under section 937(a)(1) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public 
    Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) shall--
            (A) conduct a technical assessment for indications of 
        malicious tampering; and
            (B) submit to the executive agent described in paragraph 
        (1) a report on the findings of the federation with respect to 
        the technical assessment.
    (d) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 540 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the study carried out 
    under subsection (a).
        (2) Contents.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) The findings of the Secretary with respect to the study 
        conducted under subsection (a).
            (B) The recommendations developed under subsection (b)(3).
    SEC. 239. AIRBORNE DATA LINK PLAN.
    (a) Plan Required.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics and the Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff shall jointly, in consultation with the Secretary of the Navy and 
the Secretary of the Air Force, develop a plan--
        (1) to provide objective survivable communications gateways to 
    enable--
            (A) the secure dissemination of national and tactical 
        intelligence information to fourth-generation fighter aircraft 
        and supporting airborne platforms and to low-observable 
        penetrating platforms such as the F-22 and F-35 aircraft; and
            (B) the secure reception and dissemination of sensor data 
        from low-observable penetrating aircraft, such as the F-22 and 
        F-35 aircraft;
        (2) to provide secure data sharing between the fifth-generation 
    fighter aircraft of the Navy, the Air Force, and the Marine Corps, 
    with minimal changes to the outer surfaces of the aircraft and to 
    aircraft operational flight programs; and
        (3) to enable secure data sharing between fifth-generation and 
    fourth-generation aircraft in jamming environments.
    (b) Additional Plan Requirements.--The plan under subsection (a) 
shall include non-proprietary and open systems approaches that are 
compatible with the rapid capabilities office open mission systems 
initiative of the Air Force and the future airborne capability 
environment initiative of the Navy.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than February 15, 2016, the Under 
Secretary and the Vice Chairman shall jointly provide to the Committee 
on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on 
Armed Services of the Senate a briefing on the plan under subsection 
(a).
    SEC. 240. PLAN FOR ADVANCED WEAPONS TECHNOLOGY WAR GAMES.
    (a) Plan Required.--The Secretary of Defense, in coordination with 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall develop and implement 
a plan for integrating advanced weapons and offset technologies into 
exercises carried out individually and jointly by the military 
departments to improve the development and experimentation of various 
concepts for employment by the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The plan under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) Identification of specific exercises to be carried out 
    individually or jointly by the military departments under the plan.
        (2) Identification of emerging advanced weapons and offset 
    technologies based on joint and individual recommendations of the 
    military departments, including with respect to directed-energy 
    weapons, hypersonic strike systems, autonomous systems, or other 
    technologies as determined by the Secretary.
        (3) A schedule for integrating either prototype capabilities or 
    table-top exercises into relevant exercises.
        (4) A method for capturing lessons learned and providing 
    feedback both to the developers of the advanced weapons and offset 
    technology and the military departments.
    (c) Submission.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on 
Armed Services of the House of Representatives and the Senate a report 
containing the plan under subsection (a) and a status update on the 
implementation of such plan.
    SEC. 241. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF F135 ENGINE PROGRAM.
    (a) Assessment.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter into 
a contract with a federally funded research and development center to 
conduct an assessment of the F135 engine program.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment under subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the reliability, growth, and cost-
    reduction efforts with respect to the F135 engine program, 
    including--
            (A) a detailed description of the reliability and cost 
        history of the engine;
            (B) the identification of key reliability and cost 
        challenges to the program as of the date of the assessment; and
            (C) the identification of any potential options for 
        addressing such challenges.
        (2) In accordance with subsection (c), a thorough assessment of 
    the incident on June 23, 2014, consisting of an F135 engine failure 
    and subsequent fire, including--
            (A) the identification and definition of the root cause of 
        the incident;
            (B) the identification of potential actions or design 
        changes needed to address such root cause; and
            (C) the associated cost, schedule, and performance 
        implications of such incident to both the F135 engine program 
        and the F-35 Joint Strike Fighter program.
    (c) Conduct of Assessment.--The federally funded research and 
development center selected to conduct the assessment under subsection 
(a) shall carry out subsection (b)(2) by analyzing data collected by 
the F-35 Joint Program Office, other elements of the Federal 
Government, or contractors. Nothing in this section may be construed as 
affecting the plans of the Secretary to dispose of the aircraft 
involved in the incident described in such subsection (b)(2).
    (d) Report.--Not later than March 15, 2016, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report containing the 
assessment conducted under subsection (a).
    SEC. 242. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REVIEW OF AUTONOMIC LOGISTICS 
      INFORMATION SYSTEM FOR F-35 LIGHTNING II AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Report.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the Comptroller General 
of the United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the autonomic logistics information system for 
the F-35 Lightning II aircraft program.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include, at a 
minimum, the following:
        (1) The fielding status, in terms of units equipped with 
    various software and hardware configurations, for the autonomic 
    logistics information system element of the F-35 Lightning II 
    aircraft program, as of the date of the report.
        (2) The development schedule for upgrades to the autonomic 
    logistics information system, and an assessment of the ability of 
    the F-35 Lightning II aircraft program to maintain such schedule.
        (3) The views of maintenance personnel and other personnel 
    involved in operating and maintaining F-35 Lightning II aircraft in 
    testing and operational units.
        (4) The effect of the autonomic logistics information system 
    program on the operational availability of the F-35 Lightning II 
    aircraft program.
        (5) Improvements, if any, regarding the time required for 
    maintenance personnel to input data and use the autonomic logistics 
    information system.
        (6) The ability of the autonomic logistics information system 
    to be deployed on both ships and to forward land-based locations, 
    including any limitations of such a deployable version.
        (7) The cost estimates for development and fielding of the 
    autonomic logistics information system program and an assessment of 
    the capability of the program to address performance problems 
    within the planned resources.
        (8) Other matters regarding the autonomic logistics information 
    system that the Comptroller General determines of critical 
    importance to the long-term viability of the system.
    SEC. 243. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING FACILITATION OF A HIGH 
      QUALITY TECHNICAL WORKFORCE.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should 
explore using existing authorities for promoting science, technology, 
engineering, and mathematics programs, such as under section 233 of the 
Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 10 U.S.C. 2193a note), to 
allow laboratories of the Department of Defense and federally funded 
research and development centers to help facilitate and shape a high 
quality scientific and technical future workforce that can support the 
needs of the Department.

                  TITLE III--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 301. Authorization of appropriations.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

Sec. 311. Limitation on procurement of drop-in fuels.
Sec. 312. Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness Areas.
Sec. 313. Modification of energy management reporting requirements.
Sec. 314. Revision to scope of statutorily required review of projects 
          relating to potential obstructions to aviation so as to apply 
          only to energy projects.
Sec. 315. Exclusions from definition of ``chemical substance'' under 
          Toxic Substances Control Act.

                  Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

Sec. 322. Repeal of limitation on authority to enter into a contract for 
          the sustainment, maintenance, repair, or overhaul of the F117 
          engine.
Sec. 323. Pilot programs for availability of working-capital funds for 
          product improvements.

                           Subtitle D--Reports

Sec. 331. Modification of annual report on prepositioned materiel and 
          equipment.
Sec. 332. Report on merger of Office of Assistant Secretary for 
          Operational Energy Plans and Deputy Under Secretary for 
          Installations and Environment.
Sec. 333. Report on equipment purchased noncompetitively from foreign 
          entities.

                        Subtitle E--Other Matters

Sec. 341. Prohibition on contracts making payments for honoring members 
          of the Armed Forces at sporting events.
Sec. 342. Military animals: transfer and adoption.
Sec. 343. Temporary authority to extend contracts and leases under the 
          ARMS Initiative.
Sec. 344. Improvements to Department of Defense excess property 
          disposal.
Sec. 345. Limitation on use of funds for Department of Defense 
          sponsorships, advertising, or marketing associated with 
          sports-related organizations or sporting events.
Sec. 346. Reduction in amounts available for Department of Defense 
          headquarters, administrative, and support activities.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 301. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding table in section 
4301.

                   Subtitle B--Energy and Environment

    SEC. 311. LIMITATION ON PROCUREMENT OF DROP-IN FUELS.
    (a) In General.--Subchapter II of chapter 173 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2922h. Limitation on procurement of drop-in fuels
    ``(a) Limitation.--Except as provided in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Defense may not make a bulk purchase of a drop-in fuel for 
operational purposes unless the fully burdened cost of that drop-in 
fuel is cost-competitive with the fully burdened cost of a traditional 
fuel available for the same purpose.
    ``(b) Waiver.--(1) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (2), 
the Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation under subsection (a) 
with respect to a purchase.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after issuing a waiver under this 
subsection, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees notice of the waiver. Any such notice shall include each of 
the following:
        ``(A) The rationale of the Secretary for issuing the waiver.
        ``(B) A certification that the waiver is in the national 
    security interest of the United States.
        ``(C) The expected fully burdened cost of the purchase for 
    which the waiver is issued.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `drop-in fuel' means a neat or blended liquid 
    hydrocarbon fuel designed as a direct replacement for a traditional 
    fuel with comparable performance characteristics and compatible 
    with existing infrastructure and equipment.
        ``(2) The term `traditional fuel' means a liquid hydrocarbon 
    fuel derived or refined from petroleum.
        ``(3) The term `operational purposes'--
            ``(A) means for the purposes of conducting military 
        operations, including training, exercises, large scale 
        demonstrations, and moving and sustaining military forces and 
        military platforms; and
            ``(B) does not include research, development, testing, 
        evaluation, fuel certification, or other demonstrations.
        ``(4) The term `fully burdened cost' means the commodity price 
    of the fuel plus the total cost of all personnel and assets 
    required to move and, when necessary, protect the fuel from the 
    point at which the fuel is received from the commercial supplier to 
    the point of use.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 2922g the following new item:

``2922h. Limitation on procurement of drop-in fuels.''.
    SEC. 312. SOUTHERN SEA OTTER MILITARY READINESS AREAS.
    (a) Establishment of the Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness 
Areas.--Chapter 631 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 7235. Establishment of the Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness 
    Areas
    ``(a) Establishment.--The Secretary of the Navy shall establish 
areas, to be known as `Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness Areas', 
for national defense purposes. Such areas shall include each of the 
following:
        ``(1) The area that includes Naval Base Ventura County, San 
    Nicolas Island, and Begg Rock and the adjacent and surrounding 
    waters within the following coordinates:


 
                       ``N. Latitude/W. Longitude
 
                    3327.8'/11934.3'
                    3320.5'/11915.5'
                    3313.5'/11911.8'
                    3306.5'/11915.3'
                    3302.8'/11926.8'
                    3308.8'/11946.3'
                    3317.2'/11956.9'
                   3330.9'/11954.2'.
 


        ``(2) The area that includes Naval Base Coronado, San Clemente 
    Island and the adjacent and surrounding waters running parallel to 
    shore to 3 nautical miles from the high tide line designated by 
    part 165 of title 33, Code of Federal Regulations, on May 20, 2010, 
    as the San Clemente Island 3NM Safety Zone.
    ``(b) Activities Within the Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness 
Areas.--
        ``(1) Incidental takings under endangered species act of 
    1973.--Sections 4 and 9 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
    U.S.C. 1533, 1538) shall not apply with respect to the incidental 
    taking of any southern sea otter in the Southern Sea Otter Military 
    Readiness Areas in the course of conducting a military readiness 
    activity.
        ``(2) Incidental takings under marine mammal protection act of 
    1972.--Sections 101 and 102 of the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 
    1972 (16 U.S.C. 1371, 1372) shall not apply with respect to the 
    incidental taking of any southern sea otter in the Southern Sea 
    Otter Military Readiness Areas in the course of conducting a 
    military readiness activity.
        ``(3) Treatment as species proposed to be listed.--For purposes 
    of conducting a military readiness activity, any southern sea otter 
    while within the Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness Areas shall 
    be treated for the purposes of section 7 of the Endangered Species 
    Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 1536) as a member of a species that is 
    proposed to be listed as an endangered species or a threatened 
    species under section 4 of the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 
    U.S.C. 1533).
    ``(c) Removal.--Nothing in this section or any other Federal law 
shall be construed to require that any southern sea otter located 
within the Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness Areas be removed from 
the Areas.
    ``(d) Revision or Termination of Exceptions.--The Secretary of the 
Interior may revise or terminate the application of subsection (b) if 
the Secretary of the Interior, in consultation with the Secretary of 
the Navy, determines that military activities occurring in the Southern 
Sea Otter Military Readiness Areas are impeding the southern sea otter 
conservation or the return of southern sea otters to optimum 
sustainable population levels.
    ``(e) Monitoring.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of the Navy shall conduct 
    monitoring and research within the Southern Sea Otter Military 
    Readiness Areas to determine the effects of military readiness 
    activities on the growth or decline of the southern sea otter 
    population and on the near-shore ecosystem. Monitoring and research 
    parameters and methods shall be determined in consultation with the 
    Service.
        ``(2) Reports.--Not later than 24 months after the date of the 
    enactment of this section and every three years thereafter, the 
    Secretary of the Navy shall report to Congress and the public on 
    monitoring undertaken pursuant to paragraph (1).
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Southern sea otter.--The term `southern sea otter' means 
    any member of the subspecies Enhydra lutris nereis.
        ``(2) Take.--The term `take'--
            ``(A) when used in reference to activities subject to 
        regulation by the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1531 et seq.), shall have the meaning given such term in that 
        Act; and
            ``(B) when used in reference to activities subject to 
        regulation by the Marine Mammal Protection Act of 1972 (16 
        U.S.C. 1361 et seq.) shall have the meaning given such term in 
        that Act.
        ``(3) Incidental taking.--The term `incidental taking' means 
    any take of a southern sea otter that is incidental to, and not the 
    purpose of, the carrying out of an otherwise lawful activity.
        ``(4) Military readiness activity.--The term `military 
    readiness activity' has the meaning given that term in section 
    315(f) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2003 (16 U.S.C. 703 note) and includes all training and 
    operations of the armed forces that relate to combat and the 
    adequate and realistic testing of military equipment, vehicles, 
    weapons, and sensors for proper operation and suitability for 
    combat use.
        ``(5) Optimum sustainable population.--The term `optimum 
    sustainable population' means, with respect to any population 
    stock, the number of animals that will result in the maximum 
    productivity of the population or the species, keeping in mind the 
    carrying capacity of the habitat and the health of the ecosystem of 
    which they form a constituent element.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``7235. Establishment of the Southern Sea Otter Military Readiness 
          Areas.''.
    SEC. 313. MODIFICATION OF ENERGY MANAGEMENT REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    Section 2925(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraphs (4) and (7);
        (2) by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), (8), (9), (10), (11), 
    and (12) as paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), and (10), 
    respectively;
        (3) by amending paragraph (7), as redesignated by paragraph (2) 
    of this section, to read as follows:
        ``(7) A description and estimate of the progress made by the 
    military departments in meeting current high performance and 
    sustainable building standards under the Unified Facilities 
    Criteria.'';
        (4) by amending paragraph (9), as redesignated by such 
    paragraph (2), to read as follows:
        ``(9) Details of all commercial utility outages caused by 
    threats and those caused by hazards at military installations that 
    last eight hours or longer, whether or not the outage was mitigated 
    by backup power, including non-commercial utility outages and 
    Department of Defense-owned infrastructure, including the total 
    number and location of outages, the financial impact of the 
    outages, and measure taken to mitigate outages in the future at the 
    affected locations and across the Department of Defense.''; and
        (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(11) At the discretion of the Secretary of Defense, a 
    classified annex, as appropriate.''.
    SEC. 314. REVISION TO SCOPE OF STATUTORILY REQUIRED REVIEW OF 
      PROJECTS RELATING TO POTENTIAL OBSTRUCTIONS TO AVIATION SO AS TO 
      APPLY ONLY TO ENERGY PROJECTS.
    (a) Scope of Section.--Section 358 of the Ike Skelton National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 
Stat. 4198; 49 U.S.C. 44718 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)(3), by striking ``from State and local 
    officials or the developer of a renewable energy development or 
    other energy project'' and inserting ``from a State government, an 
    Indian tribal government, a local government, a landowner, or the 
    developer of an energy project'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(4), by striking ``readiness, and'' and 
    all that follows and inserting ``readiness and to clearly 
    communicate to such parties actions being taken by the Department 
    of Defense under this section.'';
        (3) in subsection (d)(2)(B), by striking ``as high, medium, or 
    low'';
        (4) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (k); and
        (5) by inserting after subsection (i) the following new 
    subsection (j):
    ``(j) Applicability of Section.--This section does not apply to a 
non-energy project.''.
    (b) Definitions.--Subsection (k) of such section, as redesignated 
by paragraph (4) of subsection (a), is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraphs:
        ``(4) The term `energy project' means a project that provides 
    for the generation or transmission of electrical energy.
        ``(5) The term `non-energy project' means a project that is not 
    an energy project.
        ``(6) The term `landowner' means a person or other legal entity 
    that owns a fee interest in real property on which a proposed 
    energy project is planned to be located.''.
    SEC. 315. EXCLUSIONS FROM DEFINITION OF ``CHEMICAL SUBSTANCE'' 
      UNDER TOXIC SUBSTANCES CONTROL ACT.
    Section 3(2)(B)(v) of the Toxic Substances Control Act (15 U.S.C. 
2602(2)(B)(v)) is amended by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``and any 
component of such an article (limited to shot shells, cartridges, and 
components of shot shells and cartridges), and''.

                 Subtitle C--Logistics and Sustainment

    SEC. 322. REPEAL OF LIMITATION ON AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO A 
      CONTRACT FOR THE SUSTAINMENT, MAINTENANCE, REPAIR, OR OVERHAUL OF 
      THE F117 ENGINE.
    Section 341 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3345) is repealed.
    SEC. 323. PILOT PROGRAMS FOR AVAILABILITY OF WORKING-CAPITAL FUNDS 
      FOR PRODUCT IMPROVEMENTS.
    (a) Pilot Programs Required.--During fiscal year 2016, each of the 
Assistant Secretary of the Army for Acquisition, Logistics, and 
Technology, the Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research, 
Development, and Acquisition, and the Assistant Secretary of the Air 
Force for Acquisition shall initiate a pilot program pursuant to 
section 330 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 68), as amended by section 332 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 126 Stat. 1697).
    (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--A minimum of $5,000,000 
of working-capital funds shall be used for each of the pilot programs 
initiated under subsection (a) for fiscal year 2016.

                          Subtitle D--Reports

    SEC. 331. MODIFICATION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON PREPOSITIONED MATERIEL 
      AND EQUIPMENT.
    Section 2229a(a)(8) of title 10, United States Code, is amended to 
read as follows:
        ``(8) A list of any equipment used in support of contingency 
    operations slated for retrograde and subsequent inclusion in the 
    prepositioned stocks.''.
    SEC. 332. REPORT ON MERGER OF OFFICE OF ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR 
      OPERATIONAL ENERGY PLANS AND DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY FOR 
      INSTALLATIONS AND ENVIRONMENT.
    The Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the 
merger of the Office of the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Operational Energy Plans and the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary 
of Defense for Installations and Environment under section 901 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3462). Such report shall include--
        (1) a description of how the office is implementing its 
    responsibilities under sections 138(b)(9), 138(c), and 2925(b) of 
    title 10, United States Code, and Department of Defense Directives 
    5134.15 (Assistant Secretary of Defense for Operational Energy 
    Plans and Programs) and 4280.01 (Department of Defense Energy 
    Policy);
        (2) a description of any efficiencies achieved as a result of 
    the merger; and
        (3) the number of Department of Defense personnel whose 
    responsibilities are focused on energy matters specifically.
    SEC. 333. REPORT ON EQUIPMENT PURCHASED NONCOMPETITIVELY FROM 
      FOREIGN ENTITIES.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 30, 2016, the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing a list of each contract awarded to a foreign entity 
outside of the national technology and industrial base, as described in 
section 2505(c) of title 10, United States Code, by the Department of 
Defense during fiscal years 2011 through 2015--
        (1) using procedures other than competitive procedures; and
        (2) for the procurement of equipment, weapons, weapons systems, 
    components, subcomponents, or end-items with a value of $10,000,000 
    or more.
    (b) Elements of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) 
shall include, for each contract listed, each of the following:
        (1) An identification of the items purchased under the 
    contract--
            (A) described in section 8302(a)(1) of title 41, United 
        States Code, and purchased from a foreign manufacturer by 
        reason of an exception under section 8302(a)(2)(A) or section 
        8302(a)(2)(B) of such title;
            (B) described in section 2533b(a)(1) of title 10, United 
        States Code, and purchased from a foreign manufacturer by 
        reason of an exception under section 2533b(b); and
            (C) described in section 2534(a) of such title and 
        purchased from a foreign manufacturer by reason of a waiver 
        exercised under paragraph (1), (2), (4), or (5) of section 
        2534(d) of such title.
        (2) The rationale for using the exception or waiver.
        (3) A list of potential alternative manufacturing sources from 
    the public and private sector that could be developed to establish 
    competition for those items.

                       Subtitle E--Other Matters

    SEC. 341. PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTS MAKING PAYMENTS FOR HONORING 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES AT SPORTING EVENTS.
    (a) Prohibition.--Subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2241a the following 
new section:
``Sec. 2241b. Prohibition on contracts providing payments for 
     activities at sporting events to honor members of the armed forces
    ``(a) Prohibition.--The Department of Defense may not enter into 
any contract or other agreement under which payments are to be made in 
exchange for activities by the contractor intended to honor, or giving 
the appearance of honoring, members of the armed forces (whether 
members of the regular components or the reserve components) at any 
form of sporting event.
    ``(b) Construction.--Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed 
as prohibiting the Department of Defense from taking actions to 
facilitate activities intended to honor members of the armed forces at 
sporting events that are provided on a pro bono basis or otherwise 
funded with non-Federal funds if such activities are provided and 
received in accordance with applicable rules and regulations regarding 
the acceptance of gifts by the military departments, the armed forces, 
and members of the armed forces.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting after the item relating to section 2241a the following new 
item:

``2241b. Prohibition on contracts providing payments for activities at 
          sporting events to honor members of the armed forces.''.
    SEC. 342. MILITARY ANIMALS: TRANSFER AND ADOPTION.
    (a) Availability for Adoption.--Section 2583(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by striking ``may'' in the matter preceding 
paragraph (1) and inserting ``shall''.
    (b) Authorized Recipients.--Subsection (c) of section 2583 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Authorized Recipients.--(1) A military animal shall be made 
available for adoption under this section, in order of recommended 
priority--
        ``(A) by former handlers of the animal;
        ``(B) by other persons capable of humanely caring for the 
    animal; and
        ``(C) by law enforcement agencies.
    ``(2) If the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that an adoption is justified under subsection (a)(2) under 
circumstances under which the handler of a military working dog is 
wounded in action, the dog shall be made available for adoption only by 
the handler. If the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that such an adoption is justified under circumstances under 
which the handler of a military working dog is killed in action or dies 
of wounds received in action, the military working dog shall be made 
available for adoption only by a parent, child, spouse, or sibling of 
the deceased handler.''.
    (c) Transfer for Adoption.--Subsection (f) of section 2583 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended in the matter preceding paragraph 
(1) by striking ``may transfer'' and inserting ``shall transfer''.
    (d) Location of Retirement.--Subsection (f) of such section is 
further amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs 
    (A) and (B), respectively;
        (2) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``If the Secretary'';
        (3) in paragraph (1), as designated by paragraph (2) of this 
    subsection--
            (A) by striking ``, and no suitable adoption is available 
        at the military facility where the dog is located,''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B), as designated by paragraph (1) of 
        this subsection, by inserting ``within the United States'' 
        after ``to another location''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply if at the time of retirement--
        ``(A) the dog is located outside the United States and a United 
    States citizen or service member living abroad adopts the dog; or
        ``(B) the dog is located within the United States and suitable 
    adoption is available where the dog is located.''.
    (e) Preference in Adoption for Former Handlers.--Such section is 
further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (h); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (f) the following new 
    subsection (g):
    ``(g) Preference in Adoption of Retired Military Working Dogs for 
Former Handlers.--(1) In providing for the adoption under this section 
of a retired military working dog described in paragraph (1) or (3) of 
subsection (a), the Secretary of the military department concerned 
shall accord a preference to the former handler of the dog unless the 
Secretary determines that adoption of the dog by the former handler 
would not be in the best interests of the dog.
    ``(2) In the case of a dog covered by paragraph (1) with more than 
one former handler seeking adoption of the dog at the time of adoption, 
the Secretary shall provide for the adoption of the dog by such former 
handler whose adoption of the dog will best serve the interests of the 
dog and such former handlers. The Secretary shall make any 
determination required by this paragraph with respect to a dog 
following consultation with the kennel master of the unit at which the 
dog was last located before adoption under this section.
    ``(3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as altering, 
revising, or overriding any policy of a military department for the 
adoption of military working dogs by law enforcement agencies before 
the end of the dogs' useful lives.''.
    SEC. 343. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO EXTEND CONTRACTS AND LEASES UNDER 
      THE ARMS INITIATIVE.
    Contracts or subcontracts entered into pursuant to section 
4554(a)(3)(A) of title 10, United States Code, on or before the date 
that is five years after the date of the enactment of this Act may 
include an option to extend the term of the contract or subcontract for 
an additional 25 years.
    SEC. 344. IMPROVEMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXCESS PROPERTY 
      DISPOSAL.
    (a) Plan Required.--Not later than March 15, 2016, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for 
the improved management and oversight of the systems, processes, and 
controls involved in the disposition of excess non-mission essential 
equipment and materiel by the Defense Logistics Agency Disposition 
Services.
    (b) Contents of Plan.--At a minimum, the plan shall address each of 
the following:
        (1) Backlogs of unprocessed property at disposition sites that 
    do not meet Defense Logistics Agency Disposition Services goals.
        (2) Customer wait times.
        (3) Procedures governing the disposal of serviceable items in 
    order to prevent the destruction of excess property eligible for 
    utilization, transfer, or donation before potential recipients are 
    able to view and obtain the property.
        (4) Validation of materiel release orders.
        (5) Assuring adequate physical security for the storage of 
    equipment.
        (6) The number of personnel required to effectively manage 
    retrograde sort yards.
        (7) Managing any potential increase in the amount of excess 
    property to be processed.
        (8) Improving the reliability of Defense Logistics Agency 
    Disposition Services data.
        (9) Procedures for ensuring no property is offered for public 
    sale until all requirements for utilization, transfer, and donation 
    are met.
        (10) Validation of physical inventory against database entries.
    (c) Congressional Briefing.--By not later than March 15, 2016, the 
Secretary shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
briefing on the actions taken to implement the plan required under 
subsection (a).
    SEC. 345. LIMITATION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      SPONSORSHIPS, ADVERTISING, OR MARKETING ASSOCIATED WITH SPORTS-
      RELATED ORGANIZATIONS OR SPORTING EVENTS.
    Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
Defense by this Act or otherwise made available to the Department for 
sponsorship, advertising, or marketing associated with sports-related 
organizations or sporting events, not more than 75 percent may be 
obligated or expended until the date on which the Under Secretary of 
Defense for Personnel and Readiness, in consultation with the Director 
of Accessions Policy--
        (1) conducts a review of current contracts and task orders for 
    such sponsorships, advertising, and marketing (as awarded by the 
    regular and reserve components of the Armed Forces) in order to 
    assess--
            (A) whether such sponsorships, advertising, and marketing 
        are effective in meeting the recruiting objectives of the 
        Department;
            (B) whether consistent metrics are used to evaluate the 
        effectiveness of each such activity in generating leads and 
        recruit accessions; and
            (C) whether the return on investment for such activities is 
        sufficient to warrant the continuing use of Department funds 
        for such activities; and
        (2) submits to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
    and the House of Representatives a report that includes--
            (A) a description of the actions being taken to coordinate 
        efforts of the Department relating to such sponsorships, 
        advertising, and marketing, and to minimize duplicative 
        contracts for such sponsorships, advertising, and marketing, as 
        applicable; and
            (B) the results of the review required by paragraph (1), 
        including an assessment of the extent to which the continuing 
        use of Department funds for such sponsorships, advertising, and 
        marketing is warranted in light of the review and the actions 
        described pursuant to subparagraph (A).
    SEC. 346. REDUCTION IN AMOUNTS AVAILABLE FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
      HEADQUARTERS, ADMINISTRATIVE, AND SUPPORT ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Plan for Achievement of Cost Savings.--
        (1) In general.--Commencing not later than 120 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    implement a plan to ensure that the Department of Defense achieves 
    not less than $10,000,000,000 in cost savings from the 
    headquarters, administrative, and support activities of the 
    Department during the period beginning with fiscal year 2015 and 
    ending with fiscal year 2019. The Secretary shall ensure that at 
    least one half of the required cost savings are programmed for 
    fiscal years before fiscal year 2018.
        (2) Treatment of savings pursuant to headquarters reduction.--
    Documented savings achieved pursuant to the headquarters reduction 
    requirement in subsection (b), other than savings achieved in 
    fiscal year 2020, shall count toward the cost savings required by 
    paragraph (1).
        (3) Treatment of savings pursuant to management activities.--
    Documented savings in the human resources management, health care 
    management, financial flow management, information technology 
    infrastructure and management, supply chain and logistics, 
    acquisition and procurement, and real property management 
    activities of the Department during the period referred to in 
    paragraph (1) may be counted toward the cost savings required by 
    paragraph (1).
        (4) Treatment of savings pursuant to force structure 
    revisions.--Savings or reductions to military force structure or 
    military operating units of the Armed Forces may not count toward 
    the cost savings required by paragraph (1).
        (5) Reports.--The Secretary shall include with the budget for 
    the Department of Defense for each of fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 
    2019, as submitted to Congress pursuant to section 1105 of title 
    31, United States Code, a report describing and assessing the 
    progress of the Department in implementing the plan required by 
    paragraph (1) and in achieving the cost savings required by that 
    paragraph.
        (6) Comptroller general assessments.--Not later than 90 days 
    after the submittal of each report required by paragraph (5), the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report setting forth the 
    assessment of the Comptroller General of the report and of the 
    extent to which the Department of Defense is in compliance with the 
    requirements of this section.
    (b) Headquarters Reductions.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall modify the 
    headquarters reduction plan required by section 904 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 
    127 Stat. 816; 10 U.S.C. 111 note) to ensure that it achieves 
    savings in the total funding available for major Department of 
    Defense headquarters activities by fiscal year 2020 that are not 
    less than 25 percent of the baseline amount. The modified plan 
    shall establish a specific savings objective for each major 
    headquarters activity in each fiscal year through fiscal year 2020. 
    The budget for the Department of Defense for each fiscal year after 
    fiscal year 2016 shall reflect the savings required by the modified 
    plan.
        (2) Baseline amount.--For the purposes of this subsection, the 
    baseline amount is the amount authorized to be appropriated by this 
    Act for fiscal year 2016 for major Department of Defense 
    headquarters activities, adjusted by a credit for reductions in 
    such headquarters activities that are documented, as of the date 
    that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, as 
    having been accomplished in earlier fiscal years in accordance with 
    the December 2013 directive of the Secretary of Defense on 
    headquarters reductions. The modified plan issued pursuant to 
    paragraph (1) shall include an overall baseline amount for all of 
    the major Department of Defense headquarters activities that 
    credits reductions accomplished in earlier fiscal years in 
    accordance with the December 2013 directive, and a specific 
    baseline amount for each such headquarters activity that credits 
    such reductions.
        (3) Major department of defense headquarters activities 
    defined.--In this subsection, the term ``major Department of 
    Defense headquarters activities'' means the following:
            (A) Each of the following organizations:
                (i) The Office of the Secretary of Defense and the 
            Joint Staff.
                (ii) The Office of the Secretary of the Army and the 
            Army Staff.
                (iii) The Office of the Secretary of the Navy, the 
            Office of the Chief of Naval Operations, and Headquarters, 
            Marine Corps.
                (iv) The Office of the Secretary of the Air Force and 
            the Air Staff.
                (v) The Office of the Chief, National Guard Bureau, and 
            the National Guard Joint Staff.
            (B)(i) Except as provided in clause (ii), headquarters 
        elements of each of the following:
                (I) The combatant commands, the sub-unified commands, 
            and subordinate commands that directly report to such 
            commands.
                (II) The major commands of the military departments and 
            the subordinate commands that directly report to such 
            commands.
                (III) The component commands of the military 
            departments.
                (IV) The Defense Agencies, the Department of Defense 
            field activities, and the Office of the Inspector General 
            of the Department of Defense.
                (V) Department of Defense components that report 
            directly to the organizations specified in subparagraph 
            (A).
            (ii) Subordinate commands and direct-reporting components 
        otherwise described in clause (i) that do not have significant 
        functions other than operational, operational intelligence, or 
        tactical functions, or training for operational, operational 
        intelligence, or tactical functions, are not headquarters 
        elements for purposes of this subsection.
        (4) Implementation.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall revise applicable 
    guidance on the Department of Defense major headquarters activities 
    as needed to--
            (A) incorporate into such guidance the definition of the 
        term ``major Department of Defense headquarters activities'' as 
        provided in paragraph (3);
            (B) ensure that the term ``headquarters element'', as used 
        in paragraph (3)(B), is consistently applied within such 
        guidance to include--
                (i) senior leadership and staff functions of applicable 
            commands and components; and
                (ii) direct support to senior leadership and staff 
            functions of applicable commands and components and to 
            higher headquarters;
            (C) ensure that the budget and accounting systems of the 
        Department of Defense are modified to track funding for the 
        major Department of Defense headquarters activities as separate 
        funding lines; and
            (D) identify and address any deviation from the specific 
        savings objective established for a headquarters activity in 
        the modified plan issued by the Secretary pursuant to the 
        requirement in paragraph (1).
    (c) Comprehensive Review of Headquarters and Administrative and 
Support Activities.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a 
    comprehensive review of the management and operational headquarters 
    of the Department of Defense for purposes of consolidating and 
    streamlining headquarters functions and administrative and support 
    activities.
        (2) Elements.--The review required by paragraph (1) shall 
    address the following:
            (A) The extent, if any, to which the staff of the 
        Secretaries of the military departments and the Chiefs of Staff 
        of the Armed Forces have duplicative staff functions and 
        services and could be consolidated into a single service staff.
            (B) The extent, if any, to which the staff of the Office of 
        the Secretary of Defense, the military departments, the Defense 
        Agencies, and temporary organizations have duplicative staff 
        functions and services and could be streamlined with respect 
        to--
                (i) performing oversight and making policy;
                (ii) performing staff functions and services specific 
            to the military department concerned;
                (iii) performing multi-department staff functions and 
            services; and
                (iv) performing functions and services across the 
            Department of Defense with respect to intelligence 
            collection and analysis.
            (C) The extent, if any, to which the Joint Staff, the 
        combatant commands, and their subordinate service component 
        commands have duplicative staff functions and services that 
        could be shared, consolidated, eliminated, or otherwise 
        streamlined with--
                (i) the Joint Staff performing oversight and execution;
                (ii) the staff of the combatant commands performing 
            only staff functions and services specific to the combatant 
            command concerned; and
                (iii) the staff of the service component commands of 
            the combatant commands performing only staff functions and 
            services specific to the service component command 
            concerned.
            (D) The extent, if any, to which reductions in military and 
        civilian end-strength in management or operational headquarters 
        could be used to create, build, or fill shortages in force 
        structure for operational units.
            (E) The extent, if any, to which revisions are required to 
        the Defense Officers Personnel Management Act, including 
        requirements for officers to serve in joint billets, the number 
        of qualifying billets, the rank structure in the joint billets, 
        and the joint qualification requirement for officers to be 
        promoted while serving for extensive periods in critical 
        positions such as program managers of major defense acquisition 
        programs, and officers in units of component forces supporting 
        joint commands, in order to achieve efficiencies, provide 
        promotion fairness and equity, and obtain effective governance 
        in the management of the Department of Defense.
            (F) The structure and staffing of the Joint Staff, and the 
        number, structure, and staffing of the combatant commands and 
        their subordinate service component commands, including, in 
        particular--
                (i) whether or not the staff organization of each such 
            entity has documented and periodically validated 
            requirements for such entity;
                (ii) whether or not there are an appropriate number of 
            combatant commands relative to the requirements of the 
            National Security Strategy, the Quadrennial Defense Review, 
            and the National Military Strategy; and
                (iii) whether or not opportunities exist to consolidate 
            staff functions and services common to the Joint Staff and 
            the service component commands into a single staff 
            organization that provides the required functions, 
            services, capabilities, and capacities to the Chairman of 
            the Joint Chiefs of Staff and supported combatant 
            commanders, and if so--

                    (I) where in the organizational structure such 
                staff functions, services, capabilities, and capacities 
                would be established; and
                    (II) whether or not the military departments could 
                execute such staff functions, services, capabilities, 
                and capacities while executing their requirements to 
                organize, train, and equip the Armed Forces.

            (G) The statutory and regulatory authority of the combatant 
        commands to establish subordinate joint commands or 
        headquarters, including joint task forces, led by a general or 
        flag officer, and the extent, if any, to which the combatant 
        commands have used such authority--
                (i) to establish temporary or permanent subordinate 
            joint commands or headquarters, including joint task 
            forces, led by general or flag officers;
                (ii) to disestablish temporary or permanent subordinate 
            joint commands or headquarters, including joint task 
            forces, led by general or flag officers;
                (iii) to increase requirements for general and flag 
            officers in the joint pool which are exempt from the end 
            strength limitations otherwise applicable to general and 
            flag officers in the Armed Forces;
                (iv) to participate in the management of joint officer 
            qualification in order to ensure the efficient and 
            effective quality and quantity of officers needed to staff 
            headquarters functions and services and return to the 
            services officers with required professional experience and 
            skills necessary to remain competitive for increased 
            responsibility and authority through subsequent assignment 
            or promotion, including by identifying--

                    (I) circumstances, if any, in which officers spend 
                a disproportionate amount of time in their careers to 
                attain joint officer qualifications with corresponding 
                loss of opportunities to develop in the service-
                specific assignments needed to gain the increased 
                proficiency and experience to qualify for service and 
                command assignments; and
                    (II) circumstances, if any, in which the military 
                departments detail officers to joint headquarters 
                staffs in order to maximize the number of officers 
                receiving joint duty credit with a focus on the 
                quantity, instead of the quality, of officers achieving 
                joint duty credit;

                (v) to establish commanders' strategic planning groups, 
            advisory groups, or similar parallel personal staff 
            entities that could risk isolating function and staff 
            processes, including an assessment of the justification 
            used to establish such personal staff organizations and 
            their impact on the effectiveness and efficiency of 
            organizational staff functions, services, capabilities, and 
            capacities; and
                (vi) to ensure the identification and management of 
            officers serving or having served in units in subordinate 
            service component or joint commands during combat 
            operations and did not receive joint credit for such 
            service.
        (3) Consultation.--The Secretary shall, to the extent 
    practicable and as the Secretary considers appropriate, conduct the 
    review required by paragraph (1) in consultation with such experts 
    on matters covered by the review who are independent of the 
    Department of Defense.
        (4) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting 
    forth the results of the review required by paragraph (1).

              TITLE IV--MILITARY PERSONNEL AUTHORIZATIONS

                        Subtitle A--Active Forces

Sec. 401. End strengths for active forces.
Sec. 402. Revisions in permanent active duty end strength minimum 
          levels.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

Sec. 411. End strengths for Selected Reserve.
Sec. 412. End strengths for reserves on active duty in support of the 
          reserves.
Sec. 413. End strengths for military technicians (dual status).
Sec. 414. Fiscal year 2016 limitation on number of non-dual status 
          technicians.
Sec. 415. Maximum number of reserve personnel authorized to be on active 
          duty for operational support.

               Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 421. Military personnel.
Sec. 422. Report on force structure of the Army.

                       Subtitle A--Active Forces

    SEC. 401. END STRENGTHS FOR ACTIVE FORCES.
    The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for active duty personnel 
as of September 30, 2016, as follows:
        (1) The Army, 475,000.
        (2) The Navy, 329,200.
        (3) The Marine Corps, 184,000.
        (4) The Air Force, 320,715.
    SEC. 402. REVISIONS IN PERMANENT ACTIVE DUTY END STRENGTH MINIMUM 
      LEVELS.
    Section 691 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking paragraphs (1) through (4) 
    and inserting the following new paragraphs:
        ``(1) For the Army, 475,000.
        ``(2) For the Navy, 329,200.
        ``(3) For the Marine Corps, 184,000.
        ``(4) For the Air Force, 317,000.''; and
        (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``0.5 percent'' and 
    inserting ``2 percent''.

                       Subtitle B--Reserve Forces

    SEC. 411. END STRENGTHS FOR SELECTED RESERVE.
    (a) In General.--The Armed Forces are authorized strengths for 
Selected Reserve personnel of the reserve components as of September 
30, 2016, as follows:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 342,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 198,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 57,400.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 38,900.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 105,500.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 69,200.
        (7) The Coast Guard Reserve, 7,000.
    (b) End Strength Reductions.--The end strengths prescribed by 
subsection (a) for the Selected Reserve of any reserve component shall 
be proportionately reduced by--
        (1) the total authorized strength of units organized to serve 
    as units of the Selected Reserve of such component which are on 
    active duty (other than for training) at the end of the fiscal 
    year; and
        (2) the total number of individual members not in units 
    organized to serve as units of the Selected Reserve of such 
    component who are on active duty (other than for training or for 
    unsatisfactory participation in training) without their consent at 
    the end of the fiscal year.
    (c) End Strength Increases.--Whenever units or individual members 
of the Selected Reserve of any reserve component are released from 
active duty during any fiscal year, the end strength prescribed for 
such fiscal year for the Selected Reserve of such reserve component 
shall be increased proportionately by the total authorized strengths of 
such units and by the total number of such individual members.
    SEC. 412. END STRENGTHS FOR RESERVES ON ACTIVE DUTY IN SUPPORT OF 
      THE RESERVES.
    Within the end strengths prescribed in section 411(a), the reserve 
components of the Armed Forces are authorized, as of September 30, 
2016, the following number of Reserves to be serving on full-time 
active duty or full-time duty, in the case of members of the National 
Guard, for the purpose of organizing, administering, recruiting, 
instructing, or training the reserve components:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 30,770.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 16,261.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 9,934.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 2,260.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 14,748.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 3,032.
    SEC. 413. END STRENGTHS FOR MILITARY TECHNICIANS (DUAL STATUS).
    The minimum number of military technicians (dual status) as of the 
last day of fiscal year 2016 for the reserve components of the Army and 
the Air Force (notwithstanding section 129 of title 10, United States 
Code) shall be the following:
        (1) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 26,099.
        (2) For the Army Reserve, 7,395.
        (3) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 22,104.
        (4) For the Air Force Reserve, 9,814.
    SEC. 414. FISCAL YEAR 2016 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF NON-DUAL STATUS 
      TECHNICIANS.
    (a) Limitations.--
        (1) National guard.--Within the limitation provided in section 
    10217(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, the number of non-dual 
    status technicians employed by the National Guard as of September 
    30, 2016, may not exceed the following:
            (A) For the Army National Guard of the United States, 
        1,600.
            (B) For the Air National Guard of the United States, 350.
        (2) Army reserve.--The number of non-dual status technicians 
    employed by the Army Reserve as of September 30, 2016, may not 
    exceed 595.
        (3) Air force reserve.--The number of non-dual status 
    technicians employed by the Air Force Reserve as of September 30, 
    2016, may not exceed 90.
    (b) Non-dual Status Technicians Defined.--In this section, the term 
``non-dual status technician'' has the meaning given that term in 
section 10217(a) of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 415. MAXIMUM NUMBER OF RESERVE PERSONNEL AUTHORIZED TO BE ON 
      ACTIVE DUTY FOR OPERATIONAL SUPPORT.
    During fiscal year 2016, the maximum number of members of the 
reserve components of the Armed Forces who may be serving at any time 
on full-time operational support duty under section 115(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, is the following:
        (1) The Army National Guard of the United States, 17,000.
        (2) The Army Reserve, 13,000.
        (3) The Navy Reserve, 6,200.
        (4) The Marine Corps Reserve, 3,000.
        (5) The Air National Guard of the United States, 16,000.
        (6) The Air Force Reserve, 14,000.

              Subtitle C--Authorization of Appropriations

    SEC. 421. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 for the use of the Armed Forces 
and other activities and agencies of the Department of Defense for 
expenses, not otherwise provided for, for military personnel, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4401.
    (b) Construction of Authorization.--The authorization of 
appropriations in subsection (a) supersedes any other authorization of 
appropriations (definite or indefinite) for such purpose for fiscal 
year 2016.
    SEC. 422. REPORT ON FORCE STRUCTURE OF THE ARMY.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
Congress a report containing the following:
        (1) An assessment by the Secretary of Defense of reports by the 
    Secretary of the Army on the force structure of the Army submitted 
    to Congress under section 1066 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
    Stat. 1943) and section 1062 of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3503).
        (2) An evaluation of the adequacy of the Army force structure 
    proposed for the future-years defense program for fiscal years 2017 
    through 2021 to meet the goals of the national military strategy of 
    the United States.
        (3) An independent risk assessment by the Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff of the proposed Army force structure and the 
    ability of such force structure to meet the operational 
    requirements of combatant commanders.
        (4) A description of the planning assumptions and scenarios 
    used by the Department of Defense to validate the size and force 
    structure of the Army, including the Army Reserve and the Army 
    National Guard.
        (5) A certification by the Secretary of Defense that the 
    Secretary has reviewed the reports by the Secretary of the Army and 
    the assessments of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and 
    determined that an end strength for active duty personnel of the 
    Army below the end strength level authorized in section 401(1) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
    Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3348) will be adequate to meet the national 
    military strategy of the United States.
        (6) A description of various alternative options for allocating 
    funds to ensure that the end strengths of the Army do not fall 
    below levels of significant risk, as determined pursuant to the 
    risk assessment conducted by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
    Staff under paragraph (3).
        (7) Such other information or updates as the Secretary of 
    Defense considers appropriate.
    (b) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.

                   TITLE V--MILITARY PERSONNEL POLICY

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

Sec. 501. Reinstatement of enhanced authority for selective early 
          discharge of warrant officers.
Sec. 502. Equitable treatment of junior officers excluded from an all-
          fully-qualified-officers list because of administrative error.
Sec. 503. Enhanced flexibility for determination of officers to continue 
          on active duty and for selective early retirement and early 
          discharge.
Sec. 504. Authority to defer until age 68 mandatory retirement for age 
          of a general or flag officer serving as Chief or Deputy Chief 
          of Chaplains of the Army, Navy, or Air Force.
Sec. 505. General rule for warrant officer retirement in highest grade 
          held satisfactorily.
Sec. 506. Implementation of Comptroller General recommendation on the 
          definition and availability of costs associated with general 
          and flag officers and their aides.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

Sec. 511. Continued service in the Ready Reserve by Members of Congress 
          who are also members of the Ready Reserve.
Sec. 512. Clarification of purpose of reserve component special 
          selection boards as limited to correction of error at a 
          mandatory promotion board.
Sec. 513. Increase in number of days of active duty required to be 
          performed by reserve component members for duty to be 
          considered Federal service for purposes of unemployment 
          compensation for ex-servicemembers.
Sec. 514. Temporary authority to use Air Force reserve component 
          personnel to provide training and instruction regarding pilot 
          training.
Sec. 515. Assessment of Military Compensation and Retirement 
          Modernization Commission recommendation regarding 
          consolidation of authorities to order members of reserve 
          components to perform duty.

                 Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

Sec. 521. Limited authority for Secretary concerned to initiate 
          applications for correction of military records.
Sec. 522. Temporary authority to develop and provide additional 
          recruitment incentives.
Sec. 523. Expansion of authority to conduct pilot programs on career 
          flexibility to enhance retention of members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 524. Modification of notice and wait requirements for change in 
          ground combat exclusion policy for female members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 525. Role of Secretary of Defense in development of gender-neutral 
          occupational standards.
Sec. 526. Establishment of process by which members of the Armed Forces 
          may carry an appropriate firearm on a military installation.
Sec. 527. Establishment of breastfeeding policy for the Department of 
          the Army.
Sec. 528. Sense of Congress recognizing the diversity of the members of 
          the Armed Forces.

  Subtitle D--Military Justice, Including Sexual Assault and Domestic 
                    Violence Prevention and Response

Sec. 531. Enforcement of certain crime victim rights by the Court of 
          Criminal Appeals.
Sec. 532. Department of Defense civilian employee access to Special 
          Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 533. Authority of Special Victims' Counsel to provide legal 
          consultation and assistance in connection with various 
          Government proceedings.
Sec. 534. Timely notification to victims of sex-related offenses of the 
          availability of assistance from Special Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 535. Additional improvements to Special Victims' Counsel program.
Sec. 536. Enhancement of confidentiality of restricted reporting of 
          sexual assault in the military.
Sec. 537. Modification of deadline for establishment of Defense Advisory 
          Committee on Investigation, Prosecution, and Defense of Sexual 
          Assault in the Armed Forces.
Sec. 538. Improved Department of Defense prevention and response to 
          sexual assaults in which the victim is a male member of the 
          Armed Forces.
Sec. 539. Preventing retaliation against members of the Armed Forces who 
          report or intervene on behalf of the victim of an alleged sex-
          related offence.
Sec. 540. Sexual assault prevention and response training for 
          administrators and instructors of Senior Reserve Officers' 
          Training Corps.
Sec. 541. Retention of case notes in investigations of sex-related 
          offenses involving members of the Army, Navy, Air Force, or 
          Marine Corps.
Sec. 542. Comptroller General of the United States reports on prevention 
          and response to sexual assault by the Army National Guard and 
          the Army Reserve.
Sec. 543. Improved implementation of changes to Uniform Code of Military 
          Justice.
Sec. 544. Modification of Rule 104 of the Rules for Courts-Martial to 
          establish certain prohibitions concerning evaluations of 
          Special Victims' Counsel.
Sec. 545. Modification of Rule 304 of the Military Rules of Evidence 
          relating to the corroboration of a confession or admission.

         Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, and Transition

Sec. 551. Enhancements to Yellow Ribbon Reintegration Program.
Sec. 552. Availability of preseparation counseling for members of the 
          Armed Forces discharged or released after limited active duty.
Sec. 553. Availability of additional training opportunities under 
          Transition Assistance Program.
Sec. 554. Modification of requirement for in-resident instruction for 
          courses of instruction offered as part of Phase II joint 
          professional military education.
Sec. 555. Termination of program of educational assistance for reserve 
          component members supporting contingency operations and other 
          operations.
Sec. 556. Appointments to military service academies from nominations 
          made by Delegates in Congress from the Virgin Islands, Guam, 
          American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana 
          Islands.
Sec. 557. Support for athletic programs of the United States Military 
          Academy.
Sec. 558. Condition on admission of defense industry civilians to attend 
          the United States Air Force Institute of Technology.
Sec. 559. Quality assurance of certification programs and standards for 
          professional credentials obtained by members of the Armed 
          Forces.
Sec. 560. Prohibition on receipt of unemployment insurance while 
          receiving post-9/11 education assistance.
Sec. 561. Job Training and Post-Service Placement Executive Committee.
Sec. 562. Recognition of additional involuntary mobilization duty 
          authorities exempt from five-year limit on reemployment rights 
          of persons who serve in the uniformed services.
Sec. 563. Expansion of outreach for veterans transitioning from serving 
          on active duty.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                 Matters

Sec. 571. Continuation of authority to assist local educational agencies 
          that benefit dependents of members of the Armed Forces and 
          Department of Defense civilian employees.
Sec. 572. Impact aid for children with severe disabilities.
Sec. 573. Authority to use appropriated funds to support Department of 
          Defense student meal programs in domestic dependent elementary 
          and secondary schools located outside the United States.
Sec. 574. Family support programs for immediate family members of 
          members of the Armed Forces assigned to special operations 
          forces.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

Sec. 581. Authorization for award of the Distinguished-Service Cross for 
          acts of extraordinary heroism during the Korean War.

           Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 591. Coordination with non-government suicide prevention 
          organizations and agencies to assist in reducing suicides by 
          members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 592. Extension of semiannual reports on the involuntary separation 
          of members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 593. Report on preliminary mental health screenings for individuals 
          becoming members of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 594. Report regarding new rulemaking under the Military Lending Act 
          and Defense Manpower Data Center reports and meetings.
Sec. 595. Remotely piloted aircraft career field manning shortfalls.

                  Subtitle A--Officer Personnel Policy

    SEC. 501. REINSTATEMENT OF ENHANCED AUTHORITY FOR SELECTIVE EARLY 
      DISCHARGE OF WARRANT OFFICERS.
    Section 580a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``November 30, 1993, and 
    ending on October 1, 1999'' and inserting ``October 1, 2015, and 
    ending on October 1, 2019''; and
        (2) in subsection (c)--
            (A) by striking paragraph (3); and
            (B) by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively.
    SEC. 502. EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF JUNIOR OFFICERS EXCLUDED FROM AN 
      ALL-FULLY-QUALIFIED-OFFICERS LIST BECAUSE OF ADMINISTRATIVE 
      ERROR.
    (a) Officers on Active-duty List.--Section 624(a)(3) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
    ``(E) If the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that one or more officers or former officers were not placed 
on an all-fully-qualified-list under this paragraph because of 
administrative error, the Secretary may prepare a supplemental all-
fully-qualified-officers list containing the names of any such officers 
for approval in accordance with this paragraph.''.
    (b) Officers on Reserve Active-Status List.--Section 14308(b)(4) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new subparagraph:
    ``(E) If the Secretary of the military department concerned 
determines that one or more officers or former officers were not placed 
on an all-fully-qualified-list under this paragraph because of 
administrative error, the Secretary may prepare a supplemental all-
fully-qualified-officers list containing the names of any such officers 
for approval in accordance with this paragraph.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments to Special Selection Board Authority.--
        (1) Regular components.--Section 628(a)(1) of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by striking ``or the name of a person that 
    should have been placed on an all-fully-qualified-officers list 
    under section 624(a)(3) of this title was not so placed,''.
        (2) Reserve components.--Section 14502(a)(1) of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended by striking ``or whose name was not 
    placed on an all-fully-qualified-officers list under section 
    14308(b)(4) of this title because of administrative error,''.
    SEC. 503. ENHANCED FLEXIBILITY FOR DETERMINATION OF OFFICERS TO 
      CONTINUE ON ACTIVE DUTY AND FOR SELECTIVE EARLY RETIREMENT AND 
      EARLY DISCHARGE.
    Section 638a(d)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``officers considered--'' and all that follows and inserting 
``officers considered.''.
    SEC. 504. AUTHORITY TO DEFER UNTIL AGE 68 MANDATORY RETIREMENT FOR 
      AGE OF A GENERAL OR FLAG OFFICER SERVING AS CHIEF OR DEPUTY CHIEF 
      OF CHAPLAINS OF THE ARMY, NAVY, OR AIR FORCE.
    (a) Deferral Authority.-- Section 1253 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Deferred Retirement of Chaplains.--(1) The Secretary of the 
military department concerned may defer the retirement under subsection 
(a) of an officer serving in a general or flag officer grade who is the 
Chief of Chaplains or Deputy Chief of Chaplains of that officer's armed 
force.
    ``(2) A deferment of the retirement of an officer referred to in 
paragraph (1) may not extend beyond the first day of the month 
following the month in which the officer becomes 68 years of age.
    ``(3) The authority to defer the retirement of an officer referred 
to in paragraph (1) expires December 31, 2020. Subject to paragraph 
(2), a deferment granted before that date may continue on and after 
that date.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 1253 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 1253. Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag 
    officer grades; exceptions''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 63 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 1253 and inserting the 
    following new item:

``1253. Age 64: regular commissioned officers in general and flag 
          officer grades; exceptions.''.
    SEC. 505. GENERAL RULE FOR WARRANT OFFICER RETIREMENT IN HIGHEST 
      GRADE HELD SATISFACTORILY.
    Section 1371 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 1371. Warrant officers: general rule
    ``Unless entitled to a higher retired grade under some other 
provision of law, a warrant officer shall be retired in the highest 
regular or reserve warrant officer grade in which the warrant officer 
served satisfactorily, as determined by the Secretary concerned.''.
    SEC. 506. IMPLEMENTATION OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL RECOMMENDATION ON 
      THE DEFINITION AND AVAILABILITY OF COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH GENERAL 
      AND FLAG OFFICERS AND THEIR AIDES.
    (a) Definition of Costs.--
        (1) In general.--For the purpose of providing a consistent 
    approach to estimating and managing the full costs associated with 
    general and flag officers and their aides, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall direct the Director, Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, 
    to define the costs that could be associated with general and flag 
    officers since 2001, including--
            (A) security details;
            (B) Government and commercial air travel;
            (C) general and flag officer per diem;
            (D) enlisted and officer aide housing and travel costs;
            (E) general and flag officer additional support staff and 
        their travel, equipment, and per diem costs;
            (F) general and flag officer official residences; and
            (G) any other associated costs incurred due to the nature 
        of their position.
        (2) Coordination.--The Director, Cost Assessment and Program 
    Evaluation, shall prepare the definition of costs under paragraph 
    (1) in coordination with the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Personnel and Readiness and the Secretaries of the military 
    departments.
    (b) Report On Costs Associated With General And Flag Officers and 
Aides.--Not later than June 30, 2016, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House 
of Representatives a report describing the costs associated with 
general and flag officers and their enlisted and officer aides.

                Subtitle B--Reserve Component Management

    SEC. 511. CONTINUED SERVICE IN THE READY RESERVE BY MEMBERS OF 
      CONGRESS WHO ARE ALSO MEMBERS OF THE READY RESERVE.
    Section 10149 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (b) as subsection (c); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(b)(1) In applying Ready Reserve continuous screening under this 
section, an individual who is both a member of the Ready Reserve and a 
Member of Congress may not be transferred to the Standby Reserve or 
discharged on account of the individual's position as a Member of 
Congress.
    ``(2) The transfer or discharge of an individual who is both a 
member of the Ready Reserve and a Member of Congress may be ordered--
        ``(A) only by the Secretary of Defense or, in the case of a 
    Member of Congress who also is a member of the Coast Guard Reserve, 
    the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is 
    operating when it is not operating as a service in the Navy; and
        ``(B) only on the basis of the needs of the service, taking 
    into consideration the position and duties of the individual in the 
    Ready Reserve.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `Member of Congress' includes a 
Delegate or Resident Commissioner to Congress and a Member-elect.''.
    SEC. 512. CLARIFICATION OF PURPOSE OF RESERVE COMPONENT SPECIAL 
      SELECTION BOARDS AS LIMITED TO CORRECTION OF ERROR AT A MANDATORY 
      PROMOTION BOARD.
    Section 14502(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``a selection board'' and inserting ``a mandatory promotion 
        board convened under section 14101(a) of this title''; and
            (B) in subparagraphs (A) and (B), by striking ``selection 
        board'' and inserting ``mandatory promotion board''; and
        (2) in the first sentence of paragraph (3)--
            (A) by striking ``Such board'' and inserting ``The special 
        selection board''; and
            (B) by striking ``selection board'' and inserting 
        ``mandatory promotion board''.
    SEC. 513. INCREASE IN NUMBER OF DAYS OF ACTIVE DUTY REQUIRED TO BE 
      PERFORMED BY RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS FOR DUTY TO BE CONSIDERED 
      FEDERAL SERVICE FOR PURPOSES OF UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION FOR EX-
      SERVICEMEMBERS.
    (a) Increase of Number of Days.--Section 8521(a)(1) of title 5, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``90 days'' in the matter 
preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting ``180 days''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to periods of Federal service commencing on or after that 
date.
    SEC. 514. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO USE AIR FORCE RESERVE COMPONENT 
      PERSONNEL TO PROVIDE TRAINING AND INSTRUCTION REGARDING PILOT 
      TRAINING.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--During fiscal year 2016, the Secretary of the 
    Air Force may authorize personnel described in paragraph (2) to 
    provide training and instruction regarding pilot training to the 
    following:
            (A) Members of the Armed Forces on active duty.
            (B) Members of foreign military forces who are in the 
        United States.
        (2) Personnel.--The personnel described in this paragraph are 
    the following:
            (A) Members of the reserve components of the Air Force on 
        active Guard and Reserve duty (as that term is defined in 
        section 101(d) of title 10, United States Code) who are not 
        otherwise authorized to conduct the training described in 
        paragraph (1) due to the limitations in section 12310 of title 
        10, United States Code.
            (B) Members of the Air Force who are military technicians 
        (dual status) who are not otherwise authorized to conduct the 
        training described in paragraph (1) due to the limitations in 
        section 10216 of title 10, United States Code, and section 
        709(a) of title 32, United States Code.
        (3) Limitation.--Not more than 50 members described in 
    paragraph (2) may provide training and instruction under the 
    authority in paragraph (1) at any one time.
        (4) Federal tort claims act.--Members of the uniformed services 
    described in paragraph (2) who provide training and instruction 
    pursuant to the authority in paragraph (1) shall be covered by the 
    Federal Tort Claims Act for purposes of any claim arising from the 
    employment of such individuals under that authority.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report setting forth a plan to eliminate shortages in 
the number of pilot instructors within the Air Force using authorities 
available to the Secretary under current law.
    SEC. 515. ASSESSMENT OF MILITARY COMPENSATION AND RETIREMENT 
      MODERNIZATION COMMISSION RECOMMENDATION REGARDING CONSOLIDATION 
      OF AUTHORITIES TO ORDER MEMBERS OF RESERVE COMPONENTS TO PERFORM 
      DUTY.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
assessment of the recommendation of the Military Compensation and 
Retirement Modernization Commission regarding consolidation of 
statutory authorities by which members of the reserve components of the 
Armed Forces may be ordered to perform duty. The Secretary shall 
specifically assess each of the six broader duty statuses recommended 
by the Commission as replacements for the 30 reserve component duty 
statuses currently authorized to determine whether consolidation will 
increase efficiency in the reserve components.
    (b) Submission of Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
Representatives a report containing the results of the Secretary's 
assessment. If, as a result of the assessment, the Secretary determines 
that an alternate approach to consolidation of the statutory 
authorities described in subsection (a) is preferable, the Secretary 
shall submit the alternate approach, including a draft of such 
legislation as would be necessary to amend titles 10, 14, 32, and 37 of 
the United States Code and other provisions of law in order to 
implement the Secretary's approach by October 1, 2018.

                Subtitle C--General Service Authorities

    SEC. 521. LIMITED AUTHORITY FOR SECRETARY CONCERNED TO INITIATE 
      APPLICATIONS FOR CORRECTION OF MILITARY RECORDS.
    Section 1552(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the first sentence--
            (A) by striking ``or his heir or legal representative'' and 
        inserting ``(or the claimant's heir or legal representative) or 
        the Secretary concerned''; and
            (B) by striking ``he discovers'' and inserting 
        ``discovering''; and
        (2) in the second sentence, by striking ``However, a board'' 
    and inserting the following: ``The Secretary concerned may file a 
    request for correction of a military record only if the request is 
    made on behalf of a group of members or former members of the armed 
    forces who were similarly harmed by the same error or injustice. A 
    board''.
    SEC. 522. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO DEVELOP AND PROVIDE ADDITIONAL 
      RECRUITMENT INCENTIVES.
    (a) Additional Recruitment Incentives Authorized.--The Secretary of 
a military department may develop and provide incentives, not otherwise 
authorized by law, to encourage individuals to accept an appointment as 
a commissioned officer, to accept an appointment as a warrant officer, 
or to enlist in an Armed Force under the jurisdiction of the Secretary.
    (b) Relation to Other Personnel Authorities.--A recruitment 
incentive developed under subsection (a) may be provided--
        (1) without regard to the lack of specific authority for the 
    recruitment incentive under title 10 or 37, United States Code; and
        (2) notwithstanding any provision of such titles, or any rule 
    or regulation prescribed under such provision, relating to methods 
    of providing incentives to individuals to accept appointments or 
    enlistments in the Armed Forces, including the provision of group 
    or individual bonuses, pay, or other incentives.
    (c) Notice and Wait Requirement.--The Secretary of a military 
department may not provide a recruitment incentive developed under 
subsection (a) until--
        (1) the Secretary submits to the congressional defense 
    committees a plan regarding provision of the recruitment incentive, 
    which includes--
            (A) a description of the incentive, including the purpose 
        of the incentive and the potential recruits to be addressed by 
        the incentive;
            (B) a description of the provisions of titles 10 and 37, 
        United States Code, from which the incentive would require a 
        waiver and the rationale to support the waiver;
            (C) a statement of the anticipated outcomes as a result of 
        providing the incentive; and
            (D) a description of the method to be used to evaluate the 
        effectiveness of the incentive; and
        (2) the expiration of the 30-day period beginning on the date 
    on which the plan was received by Congress.
    (d) Limitation on Number of Incentives.--The Secretary of a 
military department may not provide more than three recruitment 
incentives under the authority of this section.
    (e) Limitation on Number of Individuals Receiving Incentives.--The 
number of individuals who receive one or more of the recruitment 
incentives provided under subsection (a) by the Secretary of a military 
department during a fiscal year for an Armed Force under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary may not exceed 20 percent of the 
accession objective of that Armed Force for that fiscal year.
    (f) Duration of Developed Incentive.--A recruitment incentive 
developed under subsection (a) may be provided for not longer than a 
three-year period beginning on the date on which the incentive is first 
provided, except that the Secretary of the military department 
concerned may extend the period if the Secretary determines that 
additional time is needed to fully evaluate the effectiveness of the 
incentive.
    (g) Reporting Requirements.--If the Secretary of a military 
department provides an recruitment incentive under subsection (a) for a 
fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report, not later than 60 days after the end of the fiscal 
year, containing--
        (1) a description of each incentive provided under subsection 
    (a) during that fiscal year; and
        (2) an assessment of the impact of the incentives on the 
    recruitment of individuals for an Armed Force under the 
    jurisdiction of the Secretary.
    (h) Termination of Authority to Provide Incentives.--
Notwithstanding subsection (f); the authority to provide recruitment 
incentives under this section expires on December 31, 2020.
    SEC. 523. EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO CONDUCT PILOT PROGRAMS ON 
      CAREER FLEXIBILITY TO ENHANCE RETENTION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    (a) Repeal of Limitation on Eligible Participants.--Subsection (b) 
of section 533 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. prec. 701 note) is 
repealed.
    (b) Repeal of Limitation on Number of Participants.--Subsection (c) 
of section 533 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. prec. 701 note) is 
repealed.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Section 533 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 10 U.S.C. prec. 701 note) is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (d) through (m) as subsections 
    (b) through (k), respectively; and
        (2) in subsections (b)(1), (d), and (f)(3)(D) (as so 
    redesignated), by striking ``subsection (e)'' each place it appears 
    and inserting ``subsection (c)''.
    SEC. 524. MODIFICATION OF NOTICE AND WAIT REQUIREMENTS FOR CHANGE 
      IN GROUND COMBAT EXCLUSION POLICY FOR FEMALE MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    (a) Rule for Ground Combat Personnel Policy.--Section 652(a) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the first sentence, by striking ``before any such 
        change is implemented'' and inserting ``not less than 30 
        calendar days before such change is implemented''; and
            (B) by striking the second sentence; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (5).
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 652(b)(1) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended by inserting ``calendar'' before ``days''.
    SEC. 525. ROLE OF SECRETARY OF DEFENSE IN DEVELOPMENT OF GENDER-
      NEUTRAL OCCUPATIONAL STANDARDS.
    Section 524(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3361; 10 U.S.C. 113 note) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``and'' at the end of paragraph (1);
        (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) measure the combat readiness of combat units, including 
    special operations forces.''.
    SEC. 526. ESTABLISHMENT OF PROCESS BY WHICH MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES MAY CARRY AN APPROPRIATE FIREARM ON A MILITARY 
      INSTALLATION.
    Not later than December 31, 2015, the Secretary of Defense, taking 
into consideration the views of senior leadership of military 
installations in the United States, shall establish and implement a 
process by which the commanders of military installations in the United 
States, or other military commanders designated by the Secretary of 
Defense for military reserve centers, Armed Services recruiting 
centers, and such other defense facilities as the Secretary may 
prescribe, may authorize a member of the Armed Forces who is assigned 
to duty at the installation, center or facility to carry an appropriate 
firearm on the installation, center, or facility if the commander 
determines that carrying such a firearm is necessary as a personal- or 
force-protection measure.
    SEC. 527. ESTABLISHMENT OF BREASTFEEDING POLICY FOR THE DEPARTMENT 
      OF THE ARMY.
    The Secretary of the Army shall develop a comprehensive policy 
regarding breastfeeding by female members of the Army who are 
breastfeeding. At a minimum, the policy shall address the following:
        (1) The provision of a designated room or area that will 
    provide the member with adequate privacy and cleanliness and that 
    includes an electrical outlet to facilitate the use of a breast 
    pump. Restrooms should not be considered an appropriate location.
        (2) An allowance for appropriate breaks, when practicable, to 
    permit the member to breastfeed or utilize a breast pump.
    SEC. 528. SENSE OF CONGRESS RECOGNIZING THE DIVERSITY OF THE 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) The United States military includes individuals with a 
    variety of national, ethnic, and cultural backgrounds that have 
    roots all over the world.
        (2) In addition to diverse backgrounds, members of the Armed 
    Forces come from numerous religious traditions, including 
    Christian, Hindu, Jewish, Muslim, Sikh, non-denominational, non-
    practicing, and many more.
        (3) Members of the Armed Forces from diverse backgrounds and 
    religious traditions have lost their lives or been injured 
    defending the national security of the United States.
        (4) Diversity contributes to the strength of the Armed Forces, 
    and service members from different backgrounds and religious 
    traditions share the same goal of defending the United States.
        (5) The unity of the Armed Forces reflects the strength in 
    diversity that makes the United States a great nation.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the United 
States should--
        (1) continue to recognize and promote diversity in the Armed 
    Forces; and
        (2) honor those from all diverse backgrounds and religious 
    traditions who have made sacrifices in serving the United States 
    through the Armed Forces.

  Subtitle D--Military Justice, Including Sexual Assault and Domestic 
                    Violence Prevention and Response

    SEC. 531. ENFORCEMENT OF CERTAIN CRIME VICTIM RIGHTS BY THE COURT 
      OF CRIMINAL APPEALS.
    Subsection (e) of section 806b of title 10, United States Code 
(article 6b of the Uniform Code of Military Justice), is amended to 
read as follows:
    ``(e) Enforcement by Court of Criminal Appeals.--(1) If the victim 
of an offense under this chapter believes that a preliminary hearing 
ruling under section 832 of this title (article 32) or a court-martial 
ruling violates the rights of the victim afforded by a section 
(article) or rule specified in paragraph (4), the victim may petition 
the Court of Criminal Appeals for a writ of mandamus to require the 
preliminary hearing officer or the court-martial to comply with the 
section (article) or rule.
    ``(2) If the victim of an offense under this chapter is subject to 
an order to submit to a deposition, notwithstanding the availability of 
the victim to testify at the court-martial trying the accused for the 
offense, the victim may petition the Court of Criminal Appeals for a 
writ of mandamus to quash such order.
    ``(3) A petition for a writ of mandamus described in this 
subsection shall be forwarded directly to the Court of Criminal 
Appeals, by such means as may be prescribed by the President, and, to 
the extent practicable, shall have priority over all other proceedings 
before the court.
    ``(4) Paragraph (1) applies with respect to the protections 
afforded by the following:
        ``(A) This section (article).
        ``(B) Section 832 (article 32) of this title.
        ``(C) Military Rule of Evidence 412, relating to the admission 
    of evidence regarding a victim's sexual background.
        ``(D) Military Rule of Evidence 513, relating to the 
    psychotherapist-patient privilege.
        ``(E) Military Rule of Evidence 514, relating to the victim 
    advocate-victim privilege.
        ``(F) Military Rule of Evidence 615, relating to the exclusion 
    of witnesses.''.
    SEC. 532. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEE ACCESS TO SPECIAL 
      VICTIMS' COUNSEL.
    Section 1044e(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding the following new subparagraph:
        ``(C) A civilian employee of the Department of Defense who is 
    not eligible for military legal assistance under section 1044(a)(7) 
    of this title, but who is the victim of an alleged sex-related 
    offense, and the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of the 
    military department concerned waives the condition in such section 
    for the purposes of offering Special Victims' Counsel services to 
    the employee.''.
    SEC. 533. AUTHORITY OF SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL TO PROVIDE LEGAL 
      CONSULTATION AND ASSISTANCE IN CONNECTION WITH VARIOUS GOVERNMENT 
      PROCEEDINGS.
    Section 1044e(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (8) the following new 
    paragraph (9):
        ``(9) Legal consultation and assistance in connection with--
            ``(A) any complaint against the Government, including an 
        allegation under review by an inspector general and a complaint 
        regarding equal employment opportunities;
            ``(B) any request to the Government for information, 
        including a request under section 552a of title 5 (commonly 
        referred to as a `Freedom of Information Act request'); and
            ``(C) any correspondence or other communications with 
        Congress.''.
    SEC. 534. TIMELY NOTIFICATION TO VICTIMS OF SEX-RELATED OFFENSES OF 
      THE AVAILABILITY OF ASSISTANCE FROM SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL.
    (a) Timely Notice Described.--Section 1044e(f) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
    ``(2) Subject to such exceptions for exigent circumstances as the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating may prescribe, notice of the availability of a 
Special Victims' Counsel shall be provided to an individual described 
in subsection (a)(2) before any military criminal investigator or trial 
counsel interviews, or requests any statement from, the individual 
regarding the alleged sex-related offense.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment to Related Legal Assistance Authority.--
Section 1565b(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraph (3):
    ``(3) Subject to such exceptions for exigent circumstances as the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Department in which the 
Coast Guard is operating may prescribe, notice of the availability of a 
Special Victims' Counsel under section 1044e of this title shall be 
provided to a member of the armed forces or dependent who is the victim 
of sexual assault before any military criminal investigator or trial 
counsel interviews, or requests any statement from, the member or 
dependent regarding the alleged sexual assault.''.
    SEC. 535. ADDITIONAL IMPROVEMENTS TO SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Training Time Period and Requirements.--Section 1044e(d) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``An individual'';
        (2) by designating existing paragraphs (1) and (2) as 
    subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense shall--
        ``(A) develop a policy to standardize the time period within 
    which a Special Victims' Counsel receives training; and
        ``(B) establish the baseline training requirements for a 
    Special Victims' Counsel.''.
    (b) Improved Administrative Responsibility.--Section 1044e(e) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense, in collaboration with the 
Secretaries of the military departments and the Secretary of the 
Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, shall establish--
        ``(A) guiding principles for the Special Victims' Counsel 
    program, to include ensuring that--
            ``(i) Special Victims' Counsel are assigned to locations 
        that maximize the opportunity for face-to-face communication 
        between counsel and clients; and
            ``(ii) effective means of communication are available to 
        permit counsel and client interactions when face-to-face 
        communication is not feasible;
        ``(B) performance measures and standards to measure the 
    effectiveness of the Special Victims' Counsel program and client 
    satisfaction with the program; and
        ``(C) processes by which the Secretaries of the military 
    departments and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast 
    Guard is operating will evaluate and monitor the Special Victims' 
    Counsel program using such guiding principles and performance 
    measures and standards.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendment Regarding Qualifications.--Section 
1044(d)(2) of chapter 53 of title 10, United States Code is amended by 
striking ``meets the additional qualifications specified in subsection 
(d)(2)'' and inserting ``satisfies the additional qualifications and 
training requirements specified in subsection (d)''.
    SEC. 536. ENHANCEMENT OF CONFIDENTIALITY OF RESTRICTED REPORTING OF 
      SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE MILITARY.
    (a) Preemption of State Law To Ensure Confidentiality of 
Reporting.--Section 1565b(b) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) In the case of information disclosed pursuant to paragraph 
(1), any State law or regulation that would require an individual 
specified in paragraph (2) to disclose the personally identifiable 
information of the adult victim or alleged perpetrator of the sexual 
assault to a State or local law enforcement agency shall not apply, 
except when reporting is necessary to prevent or mitigate a serious and 
imminent threat to the health or safety of an individual.''.
    (b) Clarification of Scope.--Section 1565b(b)(1) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``a dependent'' and 
inserting ``an adult dependent''.
    (c) Definitions.--Section 1565b of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Sexual assault.--The term `sexual assault' includes the 
    offenses of rape, sexual assault, forcible sodomy, aggravated 
    sexual contact, abusive sexual contact, and attempts to commit such 
    offenses, as punishable under applicable Federal or State law.
        ``(2) State.--The term `State' includes the District of 
    Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the 
    Northern Mariana Islands, and any territory or possession of the 
    United States.''.
    SEC. 537. MODIFICATION OF DEADLINE FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF DEFENSE 
      ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATION, PROSECUTION, AND DEFENSE OF 
      SEXUAL ASSAULT IN THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 546(a)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3374; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note) is amended by striking 
``not later than'' and all that follows and inserting ``not later than 
90 days after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.''.
    SEC. 538. IMPROVED DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PREVENTION AND RESPONSE TO 
      SEXUAL ASSAULTS IN WHICH THE VICTIM IS A MALE MEMBER OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    (a) Plan to Improve Prevention and Response.--The Secretary of 
Defense, in collaboration with the Secretaries of the military 
departments, shall develop a plan to improve Department of Defense 
prevention and response to sexual assaults in which the victim is a 
male member of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) Sexual assault prevention and response training to more 
    comprehensively and directly address the incidence of male members 
    of the Armed Forces who are sexually assaulted and how certain 
    behavior and activities, such as hazing, can constitute a sexual 
    assault.
        (2) Methods to evaluate the extent to which differences exist 
    in the medical and mental health-care needs of male and female 
    sexual assault victims, and the care regimen, if any, that will 
    best meet those needs.
        (3) Data-driven decision making to improve male-victim sexual 
    assault prevention and response program efforts.
        (4) Goals with associated metrics to drive the changes needed 
    to address sexual assaults of male members of the Armed Forces.
        (5) Information about the sexual victimization of males in 
    communications to members that are used to raise awareness of 
    sexual assault and efforts to prevent and respond to it.
        (6) Guidance for the department's medical and mental health 
    providers, and other personnel as appropriate, based on the results 
    of the evaluation described in paragraph (2), that delineates these 
    gender-specific distinctions and the care regimen that is 
    recommended to most effectively meet those needs.
    SEC. 539. PREVENTING RETALIATION AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES WHO REPORT OR INTERVENE ON BEHALF OF THE VICTIM OF AN 
      ALLEGED SEX-RELATED OFFENCE.
    (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
comprehensive strategy to prevent retaliation carried out by members of 
the Armed Forces against other members who report or otherwise 
intervene on behalf of the victim of an alleged sex-related offence.
    (b) Elements.--The comprehensive strategy required by subsection 
(a) shall include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) Bystander intervention programs emphasizing the importance 
    of guarding against retaliation.
        (2) Department of Defense and military department policies and 
    requirements to ensure protection for victims of alleged sex-
    related offences and members who intervene on behalf of victims 
    from retaliation.
        (3) Additional training for commanders on methods and 
    procedures to combat attitudes and beliefs that result in 
    retaliation.
    (c) Definitions.--For purposes of this section:
        (1) The term ``alleged sex-related offence'' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 1044e(g) of title 10, United States 
    Code.
        (2) The term ``retaliation'' has such meaning as may be given 
    that term by the Secretary of Defense in the development of the 
    strategy required by subsection (a).
    SEC. 540. SEXUAL ASSAULT PREVENTION AND RESPONSE TRAINING FOR 
      ADMINISTRATORS AND INSTRUCTORS OF SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS' 
      TRAINING CORPS.
    The Secretary of a military department shall ensure that the 
commander of each unit of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
and all Professors of Military Science, senior military instructors, 
and civilian employees detailed, assigned, or employed as 
administrators and instructors of the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
Corps receive regular sexual assault prevention and response training 
and education.
    SEC. 541. RETENTION OF CASE NOTES IN INVESTIGATIONS OF SEX-RELATED 
      OFFENSES INVOLVING MEMBERS OF THE ARMY, NAVY, AIR FORCE, OR 
      MARINE CORPS.
    (a) Retention of All Investigative Records Required.--Not later 
than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall update Department of Defense records 
retention policies to ensure that, for all investigations relating to 
an alleged sex-related offense (as defined in section 1044e(g) of title 
10, United States Code) involving a member of the Army, Navy, Air 
Force, or Marine Corps, all elements of the case file shall be retained 
as part of the investigative records retained in accordance with 
section 586 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 1561 note).
    (b) Elements.--In updating records retention policies as required 
by subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall address, at a 
minimum, the following matters:
        (1) The elements of the case file to be retained must include, 
    at a minimum, the case activity record, case review record, 
    investigative plans, and all case notes made by an investigating 
    agent or agents.
        (2) All investigative records must be retained for no less than 
    50 years.
        (3) No element of the case file may be destroyed until the 
    expiration of the time that investigative records must be kept.
        (4) Records may be stored digitally or in hard copy, in 
    accordance with existing law or regulations or additionally 
    prescribed policy considered necessary by the Secretary of the 
    military department concerned.
    (c) Consistent Education and Policy.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall ensure that existing policy, education, and training are updated 
to reflect policy changes in accordance with subsection (a).
    (d) Uniform Application to Military Departments.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that, to the maximum extent practicable, the 
policy developed under subsections (a) is implemented uniformly by the 
military departments.
    SEC. 542. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORTS ON 
      PREVENTION AND RESPONSE TO SEXUAL ASSAULT BY THE ARMY NATIONAL 
      GUARD AND THE ARMY RESERVE.
    (a) Initial Report.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the Comptroller 
General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report on the 
preliminary assessment of the Comptroller General (made pursuant to a 
review conducted by the Comptroller General for purposes of this 
section) of the extent to which the Army National Guard and the Army 
Reserve--
        (1) have in place policies and programs to prevent and respond 
    to incidents of sexual assault involving members of the Army 
    National Guard or the Army Reserve, as applicable;
        (2) provide medical and mental health care services to members 
    of the Army National Guard or the Army Reserve, as applicable, 
    following a sexual assault; and
        (3) have identified whether the nature of service in the Army 
    National Guard or the Army Reserve, as the case may be, poses 
    challenges to the prevention of or response to sexual assault.
    (b) Additional Reports.--If after submitting the report required by 
subsection (a) the Comptroller General makes additional assessments as 
a result of the review described in that subsection, the Comptroller 
General shall submit to Congress such reports on such additional 
assessments as the Comptroller General considers appropriate.
    SEC. 543. IMPROVED IMPLEMENTATION OF CHANGES TO UNIFORM CODE OF 
      MILITARY JUSTICE.
    The Secretary of Defense shall examine the Department of Defense 
process for implementing statutory changes to the Uniform Code of 
Military Justice for the purpose of developing options for streamlining 
such process. The Secretary shall adopt procedures to ensure that legal 
guidance is published as soon as practicable whenever statutory changes 
to the Uniform Code of Military Justice are implemented.
    SEC. 544. MODIFICATION OF RULE 104 OF THE RULES FOR COURTS-MARTIAL 
      TO ESTABLISH CERTAIN PROHIBITIONS CONCERNING EVALUATIONS OF 
      SPECIAL VICTIMS' COUNSEL.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, Rule 104(b) of the Rules for Courts-Martial shall be modified to 
provide that the prohibitions concerning evaluations established by 
that Rule shall apply to the giving of a less favorable rating or 
evaluation to any member of the Armed Forces serving as a Special 
Victims' Counsel because of the zeal with which such counsel 
represented a victim.
    SEC. 545. MODIFICATION OF RULE 304 OF THE MILITARY RULES OF 
      EVIDENCE RELATING TO THE CORROBORATION OF A CONFESSION OR 
      ADMISSION.
    To the extent the President considers practicable, the President 
shall modify Rule 304(c) of the Military Rules of Evidence to conform 
to the rules governing the admissibility of the corroboration of 
admissions and confessions in the trial of criminal cases in the United 
States district courts.

         Subtitle E--Member Education, Training, and Transition

    SEC. 551. ENHANCEMENTS TO YELLOW RIBBON REINTEGRATION PROGRAM.
    (a) Scope and Purpose.--Section 582(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 
10101 note) is amended by striking ``combat veteran''.
    (b) Eligibility.--
        (1) Definition.--Section 582 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 
    U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended by adding at the end the following 
    new subsection:
    ``(l) Eligible Individuals Defined.--For the purposes of this 
section, the term `eligible individual' means a member of a reserve 
component, a member of their family, or a designated representative who 
the Secretary of Defense determines to be eligible for the Yellow 
Ribbon Reintegration Program.''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 582 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 
    U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``National Guard and 
        Reserve members and their families'' and inserting ``eligible 
        individuals'';
            (B) in subsection (b), by striking ``members of the reserve 
        components of the Armed Forces, their families,'' and inserting 
        ``eligible individuals'';
            (C) in subsection (d)(2)(C), by striking ``members of the 
        Armed Forces and their families'' and inserting ``eligible 
        individuals'';
            (D) in subsection (h), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1)--
                (i) by striking ``members of the Armed Forces and their 
            family members'' and inserting ``eligible individuals''; 
            and
                (ii) by striking ``such members and their family 
            members'' and inserting ``such eligible individuals'';
            (E) in subsection (j), by striking ``members of the Armed 
        Forces and their families'' and inserting ``eligible 
        individuals''; and
            (F) in subsection (k), by striking ``individual members of 
        the Armed Forces and their families'' and inserting ``eligible 
        individuals''.
    (c) Office for Reintegration Programs.--Section 582(d) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 10 U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (1)(B), by striking ``substance abuse and 
    mental health treatment services'' and inserting ``substance abuse, 
    mental health treatment, and other quality of life services''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) Grants.--The Office for Reintegration Programs may make 
    grants to conduct data collection, trend analysis, and curriculum 
    development and to prepare reports in support of activities under 
    this section.''.
    (d) Operation of Program.--
        (1) Enhanced flexibility.--Subsection (g) of section 582 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
    110-181; 10 U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Operation of Program.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Office for Reintegration Programs shall 
    assist State National Guard and Reserve organizations with the 
    development and provision of information, events, and activities to 
    support the health and well-being of eligible individuals before, 
    during, and after periods of activation, mobilization, or 
    deployment.
        ``(2) Focus of information, events, and activities.--
            ``(A) Before activation, mobilization, or deployment.--
        Before a period of activation, mobilization, or deployment, the 
        information, events, and activities described in paragraph (1) 
        should focus on preparing eligible individuals and affected 
        communities for the rigors of activation, mobilization, and 
        deployment.
            ``(B) During activation, mobilization, or deployment.--
        During such a period, the information, events, and activities 
        described in paragraph (1) should focus on--
                ``(i) helping eligible individuals cope with the 
            challenges and stress associated with such period;
                ``(ii) decreasing the isolation of eligible individuals 
            during such period; and
                ``(iii) preparing eligible individuals for the 
            challenges associated with reintegration.
            ``(C) After activation, mobilization, or deployment.--After 
        such a period, but no earlier than 30 days after 
        demobilization, the information, events, and activities 
        described in paragraph (1) should focus on--
                ``(i) reconnecting the member with their families, 
            friends, and communities;
                ``(ii) providing information on employment 
            opportunities;
                ``(iii) helping eligible individuals deal with the 
            challenges of reintegration;
                ``(iv) ensuring that eligible individuals understand 
            what benefits they are entitled to and what resources are 
            available to help them overcome the challenges of 
            reintegration; and
                ``(v) providing a forum for addressing negative 
            behaviors related to operational stress and reintegration.
        ``(3) Member pay.--Members shall receive appropriate pay for 
    days spent attending such events and activities.
        ``(4) Minimum number of events and activities.--The State 
    National Guard and Reserve Organizations shall provide to eligible 
    individuals--
            ``(A) one event or activity before a period of activation, 
        mobilization, or deployment;
            ``(B) one event or activity during a period of activation, 
        mobilization, or deployment; and
            ``(C) two events or activities after a period of 
        activation, mobilization, or deployment.''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 582 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 
    U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended--
            (A) in subsection (a), by striking ``throughout the entire 
        deployment cycle'';
            (B) in subsection (b)--
                (i) by striking ``well-being through the 4 phases'' 
            through the end of the subsection and inserting ``well-
            being.'';
                (ii) in the heading, by striking ``; Deployment 
            Cycle'';
            (C) in subsection (d)(2)(C), by striking ``throughout the 
        deployment cycle described in subsection (g)''; and
            (D) in the heading of subsection (f), by striking ``State 
        Deployment Cycle''.
    (e) Additional Permitted Outreach Service.--Section 582(h) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 10 U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended by adding at the end the 
following new paragraph:
        ``(16) Stress management and positive coping skills.''.
    (f) Support of Department-wide Suicide Prevention Efforts.--Section 
582 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
(Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended by inserting 
after subsection (h) the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Support of Suicide Prevention Efforts.--The Office for 
Reintegration Programs shall assist the Defense Suicide Prevention 
Office and the Defense Centers of Excellence for Psychological Health 
and Traumatic Brain Injury to collect and analyze information, 
suggestions, and best practices from State National Guard and Reserve 
organizations with suicide prevention and community response 
programs.''.
    (g) Name Change.--Section 582(d)(1)(B) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 
10101 note) is amended by striking ``Substance Abuse and the Mental 
Health Services Administration'' and inserting ``Substance Abuse and 
Mental Health Services Administration''.
    SEC. 552. AVAILABILITY OF PRESEPARATION COUNSELING FOR MEMBERS OF 
      THE ARMED FORCES DISCHARGED OR RELEASED AFTER LIMITED ACTIVE 
      DUTY.
    Section 1142(a)(4) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``that member's first 180 
    days of active duty'' and inserting ``the first 180 continuous days 
    of active duty of the member''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(C) For purposes of calculating the days of active duty of a 
member under subparagraph (A), the Secretary concerned shall exclude 
any day on which--
        ``(i) the member performed full-time training duty or annual 
    training duty; and
        ``(ii) the member attended, while in the active military 
    service, a school designated as a service school by law or by the 
    Secretary concerned.''.
    SEC. 553. AVAILABILITY OF ADDITIONAL TRAINING OPPORTUNITIES UNDER 
      TRANSITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM.
    Section 1144 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Additional Training Opportunities.--(1) As part of the 
program carried out under this section, the Secretary of Defense and 
the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard is operating, 
when the Coast Guard is not operating within the Department of the 
Navy, shall permit a member of the armed forces eligible for assistance 
under the program to elect to receive additional training in any of the 
following subjects:
        ``(A) Preparation for higher education or training.
        ``(B) Preparation for career or technical training.
        ``(C) Preparation for entrepreneurship.
        ``(D) Other training options determined by the Secretary of 
    Defense and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast 
    Guard is operating, when the Coast Guard is not operating within 
    the Department of the Navy.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of the Department 
in which the Coast Guard is operating, when the Coast Guard is not 
operating within the Department of the Navy, shall ensure that a member 
of the armed forces who elects to receive additional training in 
subjects available under paragraph (1) is able to receive the 
training.''.
    SEC. 554. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR IN-RESIDENT INSTRUCTION 
      FOR COURSES OF INSTRUCTION OFFERED AS PART OF PHASE II JOINT 
      PROFESSIONAL MILITARY EDUCATION.
    Section 2154(a)(2)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting ``, or offered through,'' after ``taught in residence 
at''.
    SEC. 555. TERMINATION OF PROGRAM OF EDUCATIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR 
      RESERVE COMPONENT MEMBERS SUPPORTING CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS AND 
      OTHER OPERATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 1607 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 16167. Sunset
    ``(a) Sunset.--The authority to provide educational assistance 
under this chapter shall terminate on the date that is four years after 
the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016.
    ``(b) Limitation on Provision of Assistance Pending Sunset.--
Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, during the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016 and ending on the date that is 
four years after the date of the enactment of that Act, educational 
assistance may be provided under this chapter only to a member 
otherwise eligible for educational assistance under this chapter who 
received educational assistance under this chapter for a course of 
study at an educational institution for the enrollment period at the 
educational institution that immediately preceded the date of the 
enactment of that Act.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 1607 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``16167. Sunset.''.
    SEC. 556. APPOINTMENTS TO MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES FROM 
      NOMINATIONS MADE BY DELEGATES IN CONGRESS FROM THE VIRGIN 
      ISLANDS, GUAM, AMERICAN SAMOA, AND THE COMMONWEALTH OF THE 
      NORTHERN MARIANA ISLANDS.
    (a) United States Military Academy.--Section 4342(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (6), by striking ``Three'' and inserting 
    ``Four'';
        (2) in paragraph (8), by striking ``Three'' and inserting 
    ``Four'';
        (3) in paragraph (9), by striking ``Two'' and inserting 
    ``Three''; and
        (4) in paragraph (10), by striking ``Two'' and inserting 
    ``Three''.
    (b) United States Naval Academy.--Section 6954(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (6), by striking ``Three'' and inserting 
    ``Four'';
        (2) in paragraph (8), by striking ``Three'' and inserting 
    ``Four'';
        (3) in paragraph (9), by striking ``Two'' and inserting 
    ``Three''; and
        (4) in paragraph (10), by striking ``Two'' and inserting 
    ``Three''.
    (c) United States Air Force Academy.--Section 9342(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (6), by striking ``Three'' and inserting 
    ``Four'';
        (2) in paragraph (8), by striking ``Three'' and inserting 
    ``Four'';
        (3) in paragraph (9), by striking ``Two'' and inserting 
    ``Three''; and
        (4) in paragraph (10), by striking ``Two'' and inserting 
    ``Three''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall 
apply with respect to the nomination of candidates for appointment to 
the United States Military Academy, the United States Naval Academy, 
and the United States Air Force Academy for classes entering these 
military service academies after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 557. SUPPORT FOR ATHLETIC PROGRAMS OF THE UNITED STATES 
      MILITARY ACADEMY.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 403 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 4362. Support of athletic programs
    ``(a) Authority.--
        ``(1) Contracts and cooperative agreements.--The Secretary of 
    the Army may enter into contracts and cooperative agreements with 
    the Army West Point Athletic Association for the purpose of 
    supporting the athletic programs of the Academy. Notwithstanding 
    section 2304(k) of this title, the Secretary may enter such 
    contracts or cooperative agreements on a sole source basis pursuant 
    to section 2304(c)(5) of this title. Notwithstanding chapter 63 of 
    title 31, a cooperative agreement under this section may be used to 
    acquire property or services for the direct benefit or use of the 
    Academy.
        ``(2) Financial controls.--(A) Before entering into a contract 
    or cooperative agreement under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall 
    ensure that such contract or agreement includes appropriate 
    financial controls to account for Academy and Association resources 
    in accordance with accepted accounting principles.
        ``(B) Any such contract or cooperative agreement shall contain 
    a provision that allows the Secretary, at the Secretary's 
    discretion, to review the financial accounts of the Association to 
    determine whether the operations of the Association--
            ``(i) are consistent with the terms of the contract or 
        cooperative agreement; and
            ``(ii) will not compromise the integrity or appearance of 
        integrity of any program of the Department of the Army.
        ``(3) Leases.--Section 2667(h) of this title shall not apply to 
    any leases the Secretary may enter into with the Association for 
    the purpose of supporting the athletic programs of the Academy.
    ``(b) Support Services.--
        ``(1) Authority.--To the extent required by a contract or 
    cooperative agreement under subsection (a), the Secretary may 
    provide support services to the Association while the Association 
    conducts its support activities at the Academy. The Secretary may 
    provide support services described in paragraph (2) only if the 
    Secretary determines that the provision of such services is 
    essential for the support of the athletic programs of the Academy.
        ``(2) Support services defined.--(A) In this subsection, the 
    term `support services' includes utilities, office furnishings and 
    equipment, communications services, records staging and archiving, 
    audio and video support, and security systems in conjunction with 
    the leasing or licensing of property.
        ``(B) Such term includes--
            ``(i) housing for Association personnel on United States 
        Army Garrison, West Point, New York; and
            ``(ii) enrollment of dependents of Association personnel in 
        elementary and secondary schools under the same criteria 
        applied to dependents of Federal employees under section 
        2164(a) of this title, except that educational services 
        provided pursuant to this clause shall be provided on a 
        reimbursable basis.
        ``(3) No liability of the united states.--Any such support 
    services may only be provided without any liability of the United 
    States to the Association.
    ``(c) Acceptance of Support.--
        ``(1) Support received from the association.--Notwithstanding 
    section 1342 of title 31, the Secretary may accept from the 
    Association funds, supplies, and services for the support of the 
    athletic programs of the Academy. For the purposes of this section, 
    employees or personnel of the Association may not be considered to 
    be employees of the United States.
        ``(2) Funds received from ncaa.--The Secretary may accept funds 
    from the National Collegiate Athletic Association to support the 
    athletic programs of the Academy.
        ``(3) Limitation.--The Secretary shall ensure that 
    contributions under this subsection and expenditure of funds 
    pursuant to subsection (e) do not reflect unfavorably on the 
    ability of the Department of the Army, any of its employees, or any 
    member of the armed forces to carry out any responsibility or duty 
    in a fair and objective manner, or compromise the integrity or 
    appearance of integrity of any program of the Department of the 
    Army, or any individual involved in such a program.
    ``(d) Trademarks and Service Marks.--
        ``(1) Licensing, marketing, and sponsorship agreements.--An 
    agreement under subsection (a) may, consistent with section 2260 of 
    this title (other than subsection (d) of such section), authorize 
    the Association to enter into licensing, marketing, and sponsorship 
    agreements relating to trademarks and service marks identifying the 
    Academy, subject to the approval of the Secretary of the Army.
        ``(2) Limitations.--No licensing, marketing, or sponsorship 
    agreement may be entered into under paragraph (1) if--
            ``(A) such agreement would reflect unfavorably on the 
        ability of the Department of the Army, any of its employees, or 
        any member of the armed forces to carry out any responsibility 
        or duty in a fair and objective manner; or
            ``(B) the Secretary determines that the use of the 
        trademark or service mark would compromise the integrity or 
        appearance of integrity of any program of the Department of the 
        Army, or any individual involved in such a program.
    ``(e) Retention and Use of Funds.--Any funds received by the 
Secretary under this section may be retained for use in support of the 
athletic programs of the Academy and shall remain available until 
expended.
    ``(f) Service on Association Board of Directors.--The Association 
is a designated entity for which authorization under sections 1033(a) 
and 1589(a) of this title may be provided.
    ``(g) Conditions.--The authority provided in this section with 
respect to the Association is available only so long as the Association 
continues--
        ``(1) to qualify as a nonprofit organization under section 
    501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and operates in 
    accordance with this section, the law of the State of New York, and 
    the constitution and bylaws of the Association; and
        ``(2) to operate exclusively to support the athletic programs 
    of the Academy.
    ``(h) Association Defined.--In this section, the term `Association' 
means the Army West Point Athletic Association.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 403 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new item:

``4362. Support of athletic programs.''.
    SEC. 558. CONDITION ON ADMISSION OF DEFENSE INDUSTRY CIVILIANS TO 
      ATTEND THE UNITED STATES AIR FORCE INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.
    Section 9314a(c)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``will be done on a space-available basis and not require an 
increase in the size of the faculty'' and inserting ``will not require 
an increase in the permanently authorized size of the faculty''.
    SEC. 559. QUALITY ASSURANCE OF CERTIFICATION PROGRAMS AND STANDARDS 
      FOR PROFESSIONAL CREDENTIALS OBTAINED BY MEMBERS OF THE ARMED 
      FORCES.
    Section 2015 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 
551 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3376), is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) 
    and (e), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Quality Assurance of Certification Programs and Standards.--
(1) Commencing not later than three years after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016, each Secretary concerned shall ensure that any credentialing 
program used in connection with the program under subsection (a) is 
accredited by an accreditation body that meets the requirements 
specified in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) The requirements for accreditation bodies specified in this 
paragraph are requirements that an accreditation body--
        ``(A) be an independent body that has in place mechanisms to 
    ensure objectivity and impartiality in its accreditation 
    activities;
        ``(B) meet a recognized national or international standard that 
    directs its policy and procedures regarding accreditation;
        ``(C) apply a recognized national or international 
    certification standard in making its accreditation decisions 
    regarding certification bodies and programs;
        ``(D) conduct on-site visits, as applicable, to verify the 
    documents and records submitted by credentialing bodies for 
    accreditation;
        ``(E) have in place policies and procedures to ensure due 
    process when addressing complaints and appeals regarding its 
    accreditation activities;
        ``(F) conduct regular training to ensure consistent and 
    reliable decisions among reviewers conducting accreditations; and
        ``(G) meet such other criteria as the Secretary concerned 
    considers appropriate in order to ensure quality in its 
    accreditation activities.''.
    SEC. 560. PROHIBITION ON RECEIPT OF UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE WHILE 
      RECEIVING POST-9/11 EDUCATION ASSISTANCE.
    (a) Effect of Receipt of Post-9/11 Education Assistance.--Section 
8525(b) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``he 
    receives'' and inserting ``the individual receives'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or'' after the semicolon;
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) except in the case of an individual described in 
    subsection (a), an educational assistance allowance under chapter 
    33 of title 38; or''.
    (b) Exception.--Section 8525 of title 5, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting before subsection (b) the following new 
subsection:
    ``(a) Subsection (b)(2) does not apply to an individual who--
        ``(1) is otherwise entitled to compensation under this 
    subchapter;
        ``(2) is described in section 3311(b) of title 38;
        ``(3) is not receiving retired pay under title 10; and
        ``(4) was discharged or released from service in the Armed 
    Forces or the Commissioned Corps of the National Oceanic and 
    Atmospheric Administration (including through a reduction in force) 
    under honorable conditions, but did not voluntarily separate from 
    such service.''.
    SEC. 561. JOB TRAINING AND POST-SERVICE PLACEMENT EXECUTIVE 
      COMMITTEE.
    Section 320 of title 38, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)(2), by inserting ``a subordinate Job 
    Training and Post-Service Placement Executive Committee,'' before 
    ``and such other committees'';
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Job Training and Post-Service Placement Executive 
Committee.--The Job Training and Post-Service Placement Executive 
Committee described in subsection (b)(2) shall--
        ``(1) review existing policies, procedures, and practices of 
    the Departments (including the military departments) with respect 
    to job training and post-service placement programs; and
        ``(2) identify changes to such policies, procedures, and 
    practices to improve job training and post-service placement.''; 
    and
        (3) in subsection (d)(2), by inserting ``, including with 
    respect to job training and post-service placement'' before the 
    period at the end.
    SEC. 562. RECOGNITION OF ADDITIONAL INVOLUNTARY MOBILIZATION DUTY 
      AUTHORITIES EXEMPT FROM FIVE-YEAR LIMIT ON REEMPLOYMENT RIGHTS OF 
      PERSONS WHO SERVE IN THE UNIFORMED SERVICES.
    Section 4312(c)(4)(A) of title 38, United States Code, is amended 
by inserting after ``12304,'' the following: ``12304a, 12304b,''.
    SEC. 563. EXPANSION OF OUTREACH FOR VETERANS TRANSITIONING FROM 
      SERVING ON ACTIVE DUTY.
    (a) Expansion of Pilot Program.--Section 5(c)(5) of the Clay Hunt 
Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (Public Law 114-2; 38 
U.S.C. 1712A note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) conducts outreach to individuals transitioning from 
        serving on active duty in the Armed Forces who are 
        participating in the Transition Assistance Program of the 
        Department of Defense or other similar transition programs to 
        inform such individuals of the community oriented veteran peer 
        support network under paragraph (1) and other support programs 
        and opportunities that are available to such individuals.''.
    (b) Inclusion of Information in Interim Report.--Section 5(d)(1) of 
the Clay Hunt Suicide Prevention for American Veterans Act (Public Law 
114-2; 38 U.S.C. 1712A note) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) the number of veterans who--
                ``(i) received outreach from the Department of Veterans 
            Affairs while serving on active duty as a member of the 
            Armed Forces; and
                ``(ii) participated in a peer support program under the 
            pilot program for veterans transitioning from serving on 
            active duty.''.

Subtitle F--Defense Dependents' Education and Military Family Readiness 
                                Matters

    SEC. 571. CONTINUATION OF AUTHORITY TO ASSIST LOCAL EDUCATIONAL 
      AGENCIES THAT BENEFIT DEPENDENTS OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      AND DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES.
    (a) Assistance to Schools With Significant Numbers of Military 
Dependent Students.--Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2016 by section 301 and available for operation and 
maintenance for Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding 
table in section 4301, $25,000,000 shall be available only for the 
purpose of providing assistance to local educational agencies under 
subsection (a) of section 572 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 20 U.S.C. 7703b).
    (b) Local Educational Agency Defined.--In this section, the term 
``local educational agency'' has the meaning given that term in section 
8013(9) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 
U.S.C. 7713(9)).
    SEC. 572. IMPACT AID FOR CHILDREN WITH SEVERE DISABILITIES.
    Of the amount authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
pursuant to section 301 and available for operation and maintenance for 
Defense-wide activities as specified in the funding table in section 
4301, $5,000,000 shall be available for payments under section 363 of 
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-77; 20 
U.S.C. 7703a).
    SEC. 573. AUTHORITY TO USE APPROPRIATED FUNDS TO SUPPORT DEPARTMENT 
      OF DEFENSE STUDENT MEAL PROGRAMS IN DOMESTIC DEPENDENT ELEMENTARY 
      AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS LOCATED OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Authority.--Section 2243 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking ``the defense dependents' education 
        system'' and inserting ``overseas defense dependents' 
        schools''; and
            (B) by striking ``students enrolled in that system'' and 
        inserting ``students enrolled in such a school'';
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``Department of Defense 
    dependents' schools which are located outside the United States'' 
    and inserting ``overseas defense dependents' schools''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Overseas Defense Dependents' School Defined.--In this 
section, the term `overseas defense dependents' school' means the 
following:
        ``(1) A school established as part of the defense dependents' 
    education system provided for under the Defense Dependents' 
    Education Act of 1978 (20 U.S.C. 921 et seq.).
        ``(2) An elementary or secondary school established pursuant to 
    section 2164 of this title that is located in a territory, 
    commonwealth, or possession of the United States.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of section 2243 of title 10, 
    United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2243. Authority to use appropriated funds to support student 
    meal programs in overseas defense dependents' schools''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter I of chapter 134 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 2243 and inserting 
    the following new item:

``2243. Authority to use appropriated funds to support student meal 
          programs in overseas defense dependents' schools.''.
    SEC. 574. FAMILY SUPPORT PROGRAMS FOR IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBERS OF 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES ASSIGNED TO SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
      FORCES.
    (a) Extension of Authority to Conduct Programs .--Section 554(f) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66; 10 U.S.C. 1785 note) is amended by striking ``2016'' and 
inserting ``2018''.
    (b) Modification of Reporting Requirement.--Subsection (g) of 
section 554 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 U.S.C. 1785 note) is amended to read as 
follows:
    ``(g) Report Required.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2016, and each March 
    1 thereafter though the conclusion of the pilot programs conducted 
    under subsection (a), the Commander, in coordination with the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Personnel and Readiness, shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report describing the 
    progress made in achieving the goals of the pilot programs.
        ``(2) Elements of report.--Each report under this subsection 
    shall include the following for each pilot program:
            ``(A) A description of the pilot program to address family 
        support requirements not being provided by the Secretary of a 
        military department to immediate family members of members of 
        the Armed Forces assigned to special operations forces.
            ``(B) An assessment of the impact of the pilot program on 
        the readiness of members of the Armed Forces assigned to 
        special operations forces.
            ``(C) A comparison of the pilot program to other programs 
        conducted by the Secretaries of the military departments to 
        provide family support to immediate family members of members 
        of the Armed Forces.
            ``(D) Recommendations for incorporating the lessons learned 
        from the pilot program into family support programs conducted 
        by the Secretaries of the military departments.
            ``(E) Any other matters considered appropriate by the 
        Commander or the Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel and 
        Readiness.''.

                   Subtitle G--Decorations and Awards

    SEC. 581. AUTHORIZATION FOR AWARD OF THE DISTINGUISHED-SERVICE 
      CROSS FOR ACTS OF EXTRAORDINARY HEROISM DURING THE KOREAN WAR.
    Notwithstanding the time limitations specified in section 3744 of 
title 10, United States Code, or any other time limitation with respect 
to the awarding of certain medals to persons who served in the Armed 
Forces, the Secretary of the Army may award the Distinguished-Service 
Cross under section 3742 of such title to Edward Halcomb who, while 
serving in Korea as a member of the United States Army in the grade of 
Private First Class in Company B, 1st Battalion, 29th Infantry 
Regiment, 24th Infantry Division, distinguished himself by acts of 
extraordinary heroism from August 20, 1950, to October 19, 1950, during 
the Korean War.

          Subtitle H--Miscellaneous Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 591. COORDINATION WITH NON-GOVERNMENT SUICIDE PREVENTION 
      ORGANIZATIONS AND AGENCIES TO ASSIST IN REDUCING SUICIDES BY 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Development of Policy.--The Secretary of Defense, in 
consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, may 
develop a policy to coordinate the efforts of the Department of Defense 
and non-government suicide prevention organizations regarding--
        (1) the use of such non-government organizations to reduce the 
    number of suicides among members of the Armed Forces by 
    comprehensively addressing the needs of members of the Armed Forces 
    who have been identified as being at risk of suicide;
        (2) the delineation of the responsibilities within the 
    Department of Defense regarding interaction with such 
    organizations;
        (3) the collection of data regarding the efficacy and cost of 
    coordinating with such organizations; and
        (4) the preparation and preservation of any reporting material 
    the Secretary determines necessary to carry out the policy.
    (b) Suicide Prevention Efforts.--The Secretary of Defense is 
authorized to take any necessary measures to prevent suicides by 
members of the Armed Forces, including by facilitating the access of 
members of the Armed Forces to successful non-governmental treatment 
regimen.
    SEC. 592. EXTENSION OF SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON THE INVOLUNTARY 
      SEPARATION OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    Section 525(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1724) is amended by striking 
``calendar years 2013 and 2014'' and ``each of calendar years 2013 
through 2017''.
    SEC. 593. REPORT ON PRELIMINARY MENTAL HEALTH SCREENINGS FOR 
      INDIVIDUALS BECOMING MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Report on Recommendations in Connection With Screenings.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the 
feasibility of conducting, before the enlistment or accession of an 
individual into the Armed Forces, a mental health screening of the 
individual to bring mental health screenings to parity with physical 
screenings of prospective members.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) Recommendations with respect to establishing a secure, 
    electronically-based preliminary mental health screening of new 
    members of the Armed Forces.
        (2) Recommendations with respect to the composition of the 
    mental health screening, evidenced-based best practices, and how to 
    track changes in mental health screenings relating to traumatic 
    brain injuries, post-traumatic stress disorder, and other 
    conditions.
    SEC. 594. REPORT REGARDING NEW RULEMAKING UNDER THE MILITARY 
      LENDING ACT AND DEFENSE MANPOWER DATA CENTER REPORTS AND 
      MEETINGS.
    (a) Report on New Military Lending Act Rulemaking.--Not later than 
60 days after the issuance by the Secretary of Defense of the 
regulation issued with regard to section 987 of title 10, United States 
Code (commonly known as the Military Lending Act), and part of 232 of 
title 32, Code of Federal Regulations (its implementing regulation), 
the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report that discusses--
        (1) the ability and reliability of the Defense Manpower Data 
    Center in meeting real-time requests for accurate information 
    needed to make a determination regarding whether a borrower is 
    covered by the Military Lending Act; or
        (2) an alternate mechanism or mechanisms for identifying such 
    covered borrowers.
    (b) Defense Manpower Data Center Reports and Meetings.--
        (1) Reports on accuracy, reliability, and integrity of 
    systems.--The Director of the Defense Manpower Data Center shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees reports on the 
    accuracy, reliability, and integrity of the Defense Manpower Data 
    Center systems used to identify covered borrowers and covered 
    policyholders under military consumer protection laws. The first 
    report is due six months after the date of the enactment of this 
    Act, and the Director shall submit additional reports every six 
    months thereafter through December 31, 2020, to show improvements 
    in the accuracy, reliability, and integrity of such systems.
        (2) Report on plan to strengthen capabilities.--Not later than 
    six months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
    Director of the Defense Manpower Data Center shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on plans to strengthen 
    the capabilities of the Defense Manpower Data Center systems, 
    including staffing levels and funding, in order to improve the 
    identification of covered borrowers and covered policyholders under 
    military consumer protection laws.
        (3) Meetings with private sector users of systems.--The 
    Director of the Defense Manpower Data Center shall meet regularly 
    with private sector users of Defense Manpower Data Center systems 
    used to identify covered borrowers and covered policyholders under 
    military consumer protection laws to learn about issues facing such 
    users and to develop ways of addressing such issues. The first 
    meeting pursuant to this requirement shall take place with three 
    months after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 595. REMOTELY PILOTED AIRCRAFT CAREER FIELD MANNING 
      SHORTFALLS.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for operation and 
maintenance for the Office of the Secretary of the Air Force, not more 
than 85 percent may be obligated or expended until a period of 15 days 
has elapsed following the date on which the Secretary of the Air Force 
submits to the congressional defense committees the report described in 
subsection (b).
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report on remotely 
    piloted aircraft career field manning levels and actions the Air 
    Force will take to rectify personnel shortfalls.
        (2) Elements.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following elements:
            (A) A description of current and projected manning 
        requirements and inventory levels for remotely piloted aircraft 
        systems.
            (B) A description of rated and non-rated officer and 
        enlisted manning policies for authorization and inventory 
        levels in effect for remotely piloted aircraft systems and 
        units, to include whether remotely piloted aircraft duty is 
        considered as a permanent Air Force Specialty Code or treated 
        as an ancillary single assignment duty, and if both are used, 
        the division of authorizations between permanently assigned 
        personnel and those who will return to a different primary 
        career field.
            (C) Comparisons to other Air Force manned combat aircraft 
        systems and units with respect to personnel policies, manpower 
        authorization levels, and projected personnel inventory.
            (D) Identification and assessment of mitigation actions to 
        increase unit manning levels, including recruitment and 
        retention bonuses, incentive pay, use of enlisted personnel, 
        and increased weighting to remotely piloted aircraft personnel 
        on promotion boards, and to ensure the school house for 
        remotely piloted aircraft personnel is sufficient to meet 
        increased manning demands.
            (E) Analysis demonstrating the requirements determination 
        for how remotely piloted aircraft pilot and sensor operators 
        are selected, including whether individuals are prior rated or 
        non-rated qualified, what prerequisite training or experience 
        is necessary, and required and types of basic and advanced 
        qualification training for each mission design series of 
        remotely piloted aircraft in the Air Force inventory.
            (F) Recommendations for changes to existing legislation 
        required to implement mitigation actions.
            (G) An assessment of the authorization levels of government 
        civilian and contractor support required for sufficiency of 
        remotely piloted aircraft career field manning.
            (H) A description and associated timeline of actions the 
        Air Force will take to increase remotely piloted aircraft 
        career field manpower authorizations and manning levels to at 
        least the equal of the normative levels of manning and 
        readiness of all other combat aircraft career fields.
            (I) A description of any other matters concerning remotely 
        piloted aircraft career field manning levels the Secretary of 
        the Air Force determines to be appropriate.
        (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) may be 
    submitted in classified form, but shall also contain an 
    unclassified executive summary and may contain an unclassified 
    annex.
        (4) Nonduplication of effort.--If any information required 
    under paragraph (1) has been included in another report or 
    notification previously submitted to Congress by law, the Secretary 
    of the Air Force may provide a list of such reports and 
    notifications at the time of submitting the report required under 
    this subsection in lieu of including such information in the 
    report.

          TITLE VI--COMPENSATION AND OTHER PERSONNEL BENEFITS

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

Sec. 601. No fiscal year 2016 increase in military basic pay for general 
          and flag officers.
Sec. 602. Limitation on eligibility for supplemental subsistence 
          allowances to members serving outside the United States and 
          associated territory.
Sec. 603. Phased-in modification of percentage of national average 
          monthly cost of housing usable in computation of basic 
          allowance for housing inside the United States.
Sec. 604. Extension of authority to provide temporary increase in rates 
          of basic allowance for housing under certain circumstances.
Sec. 605. Availability of information under the Food and Nutrition Act 
          of 2008.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

Sec. 611. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for reserve forces.
Sec. 612. One-year extension of certain bonus and special pay 
          authorities for health care professionals.
Sec. 613. One-year extension of special pay and bonus authorities for 
          nuclear officers.
Sec. 614. One-year extension of authorities relating to title 37 
          consolidated special pay, incentive pay, and bonus 
          authorities.
Sec. 615. One-year extension of authorities relating to payment of other 
          title 37 bonuses and special pays.
Sec. 616. Increase in maximum annual amount of nuclear officer bonus 
          pay.
Sec. 617. Modification to special aviation incentive pay and bonus 
          authorities for officers.
Sec. 618. Repeal of obsolete authority to pay bonus to encourage Army 
          personnel to refer persons for enlistment in the Army.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

Sec. 621. Transportation to transfer ceremonies for family and next of 
          kin of members of the Armed Forces who die overseas during 
          humanitarian operations.
Sec. 622. Repeal of obsolete special travel and transportation allowance 
          for survivors of deceased members of the Armed Forces from the 
          Vietnam conflict.
Sec. 623. Study and report on policy changes to the Joint Travel 
          Regulations.

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

                       Part I--Retired Pay Reform

Sec. 631. Modernized retirement system for members of the uniformed 
          services.
Sec. 632. Full participation for members of the uniformed services in 
          the Thrift Savings Plan.
Sec. 633. Lump sum payments of certain retired pay.
Sec. 634. Continuation pay for full TSP members with 12 years of 
          service.
Sec. 635. Effective date and implementation.

                         Part II--Other Matters

Sec. 641. Death of former spouse beneficiaries and subsequent 
          remarriages under the Survivor Benefit Plan.

    Subtitle E--Commissary and Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                         Benefits and Operations

Sec. 651. Plan to obtain budget-neutrality for the defense commissary 
          system and the military exchange system.
Sec. 652. Comptroller General of the United States report on the 
          Commissary Surcharge, Non-appropriated Fund, and Privately-
          Financed Major Construction Program.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 661. Improvement of financial literacy and preparedness of members 
          of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 662. Recordation of obligations for installment payments of 
          incentive pays, allowances, and similar benefits when payment 
          is due.

                     Subtitle A--Pay and Allowances

    SEC. 601. NO FISCAL YEAR 2016 INCREASE IN MILITARY BASIC PAY FOR 
      GENERAL AND FLAG OFFICERS.
    Section 203(a)(2) of title 37, United States Code, shall be applied 
for rates of basic pay payable for commissioned officers in pay grades 
O-7 through O-10 during calendar year 2016 by using the rate of pay for 
level II of the Executive Schedule in effect during 2014. The rates of 
basic pay payable for such officers shall not increase during calendar 
year 2016.
    SEC. 602. LIMITATION ON ELIGIBILITY FOR SUPPLEMENTAL SUBSISTENCE 
      ALLOWANCES TO MEMBERS SERVING OUTSIDE THE UNITED STATES AND 
      ASSOCIATED TERRITORY.
    Section 402a(b) of title 37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and paragraph (4)'' after 
    ``subsection (d)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) After September 30, 2016, a member is eligible for a 
supplemental subsistence allowance under this section only if the 
member is serving outside the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto 
Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or Guam.''.
    SEC. 603. PHASED-IN MODIFICATION OF PERCENTAGE OF NATIONAL AVERAGE 
      MONTHLY COST OF HOUSING USABLE IN COMPUTATION OF BASIC ALLOWANCE 
      FOR HOUSING INSIDE THE UNITED STATES.
    Section 403(b)(3)(B) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``may not exceed one percent.'' and inserting the following: 
``may not exceed the following:
        ``(i) One percent for months occurring during 2015.
        ``(ii) Two percent for months occurring during 2016.
        ``(iii) Three percent for months occurring during 2017.
        ``(iv) Four percent for months occurring during 2018.
        ``(v) Five percent for months occurring after 2018.''.
    SEC. 604. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TEMPORARY INCREASE IN 
      RATES OF BASIC ALLOWANCE FOR HOUSING UNDER CERTAIN CIRCUMSTANCES.
    Section 403(b)(7)(E) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
    SEC. 605. AVAILABILITY OF INFORMATION UNDER THE FOOD AND NUTRITION 
      ACT OF 2008.
    In administering the supplemental nutrition assistance program 
established under the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 (7 U.S.C. 2011 et 
seq.), the Secretary of Agriculture shall ensure that any safeguards 
that prevent the use or disclosure of information obtained from 
applicant households shall not prevent the use of that information by, 
or the disclosure of that information to, the Secretary of Defense for 
purposes of determining the number of applicant households that contain 
one or more members of a regular component or reserve component of the 
Armed Forces.

           Subtitle B--Bonuses and Special and Incentive Pays

    SEC. 611. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
      AUTHORITIES FOR RESERVE FORCES.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016'':
        (1) Section 308b(g), relating to Selected Reserve reenlistment 
    bonus.
        (2) Section 308c(i), relating to Selected Reserve affiliation 
    or enlistment bonus.
        (3) Section 308d(c), relating to special pay for enlisted 
    members assigned to certain high-priority units.
        (4) Section 308g(f)(2), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment 
    bonus for persons without prior service.
        (5) Section 308h(e), relating to Ready Reserve enlistment and 
    reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
        (6) Section 308i(f), relating to Selected Reserve enlistment 
    and reenlistment bonus for persons with prior service.
        (7) Section 478a(e), relating to reimbursement of travel 
    expenses for inactive-duty training outside of normal commuting 
    distance.
        (8) Section 910(g), relating to income replacement payments for 
    reserve component members experiencing extended and frequent 
    mobilization for active duty service.
    SEC. 612. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF CERTAIN BONUS AND SPECIAL PAY 
      AUTHORITIES FOR HEALTH CARE PROFESSIONALS.
    (a) Title 10 Authorities.--The following sections of title 10, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2016'':
        (1) Section 2130a(a)(1), relating to nurse officer candidate 
    accession program.
        (2) Section 16302(d), relating to repayment of education loans 
    for certain health professionals who serve in the Selected Reserve.
    (b) Title 37 Authorities.--The following sections of title 37, 
United States Code, are amended by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and 
inserting ``December 31, 2016'':
        (1) Section 302c-1(f), relating to accession and retention 
    bonuses for psychologists.
        (2) Section 302d(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for 
    registered nurses.
        (3) Section 302e(a)(1), relating to incentive special pay for 
    nurse anesthetists.
        (4) Section 302g(e), relating to special pay for Selected 
    Reserve health professionals in critically short wartime 
    specialties.
        (5) Section 302h(a)(1), relating to accession bonus for dental 
    officers.
        (6) Section 302j(a), relating to accession bonus for pharmacy 
    officers.
        (7) Section 302k(f), relating to accession bonus for medical 
    officers in critically short wartime specialties.
        (8) Section 302l(g), relating to accession bonus for dental 
    specialist officers in critically short wartime specialties.
    SEC. 613. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF SPECIAL PAY AND BONUS AUTHORITIES 
      FOR NUCLEAR OFFICERS.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016'':
        (1) Section 312(f), relating to special pay for nuclear-
    qualified officers extending period of active service.
        (2) Section 312b(c), relating to nuclear career accession 
    bonus.
        (3) Section 312c(d), relating to nuclear career annual 
    incentive bonus.
    SEC. 614. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO TITLE 37 
      CONSOLIDATED SPECIAL PAY, INCENTIVE PAY, AND BONUS AUTHORITIES.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016'':
        (1) Section 331(h), relating to general bonus authority for 
    enlisted members.
        (2) Section 332(g), relating to general bonus authority for 
    officers.
        (3) Section 333(i), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for nuclear officers.
        (4) Section 334(i), relating to special aviation incentive pay 
    and bonus authorities for officers.
        (5) Section 335(k), relating to special bonus and incentive pay 
    authorities for officers in health professions.
        (6) Section 336(g), relating to contracting bonus for cadets 
    and midshipmen enrolled in the Senior Reserve Officers' Training 
    Corps.
        (7) Section 351(h), relating to hazardous duty pay.
        (8) Section 352(g), relating to assignment pay or special duty 
    pay.
        (9) Section 353(i), relating to skill incentive pay or 
    proficiency bonus.
        (10) Section 355(h), relating to retention incentives for 
    members qualified in critical military skills or assigned to high 
    priority units.
    SEC. 615. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITIES RELATING TO PAYMENT OF 
      OTHER TITLE 37 BONUSES AND SPECIAL PAYS.
    The following sections of title 37, United States Code, are amended 
by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016'':
        (1) Section 301b(a), relating to aviation officer retention 
    bonus.
        (2) Section 307a(g), relating to assignment incentive pay.
        (3) Section 308(g), relating to reenlistment bonus for active 
    members.
        (4) Section 309(e), relating to enlistment bonus.
        (5) Section 316a(g), relating to incentive pay for members of 
    precommissioning programs pursuing foreign language proficiency.
        (6) Section 324(g), relating to accession bonus for new 
    officers in critical skills.
        (7) Section 326(g), relating to incentive bonus for conversion 
    to military occupational specialty to ease personnel shortage.
        (8) Section 327(h), relating to incentive bonus for transfer 
    between Armed Forces.
        (9) Section 330(f), relating to accession bonus for officer 
    candidates.
    SEC. 616. INCREASE IN MAXIMUM ANNUAL AMOUNT OF NUCLEAR OFFICER 
      BONUS PAY.
    Section 333(d)(1)(A) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``$35,000'' and inserting ``$50,000''.
    SEC. 617. MODIFICATION TO SPECIAL AVIATION INCENTIVE PAY AND BONUS 
      AUTHORITIES FOR OFFICERS.
    (a) Clarification of Secretarial Authority To Set Requirements for 
Aviation Incentive Pay Eligibility.--Subsection (a) of section 334 of 
title 37, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), (3), (4), and (5) as 
    subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), (D), and (E), respectively, and moving 
    the margin of such subparagraphs, as so redesignated, 2 ems to the 
    right;
        (2) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) Incentive pay authorized.--The Secretary''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph (2):
        ``(2) Officers not currently engaged in flying duty.--The 
    Secretary concerned may pay aviation incentive pay under this 
    section to an officer who is otherwise qualified for such pay but 
    who is not currently engaged in the performance of operational 
    flying duty or proficiency flying duty if the Secretary determines, 
    under regulations prescribed under section 374 of this title, that 
    payment of aviation incentive pay to that officer is in the best 
    interests of the service.''.
    (b) Restoration of Authority To Pay Aviation Incentive Pay to 
Medical Officers Performing Flight Surgeon Duties.--Subsection (h)(1) 
of such section is amended by striking ``(except a flight surgeon or 
other medical officer)''.
    (c) Increase in Maximum Amount of Aviation Special Pays for Flying 
Duty of Remotely Piloted Aircraft.--Subsection (c)(1) of such section 
is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``exceed $850 per month; 
    and'' and inserting ``exceed--
                ``(i) $1,000 per month for officers performing 
            qualifying flying duty relating to remotely piloted 
            aircraft (RPA); or
                ``(ii) $850 per month for officers performing other 
            qualifying flying duty; and''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``$25,000'' and all that 
    follows and inserting ``, for each 12-month period of obligated 
    service agreed to under subsection (d)--
                ``(i) $35,000 for officers performing qualifying flying 
            duty relating to remotely piloted aircraft; or
                ``(ii) $25,000 for officers performing other qualifying 
            flying duty.''.
    (d) Authority To Pay Aviation Bonus and Skill Incentive Pay to 
Officers Simultaneously.--Subsection (f) of such section is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``353'' and inserting 
    ``353(a)''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``a payment'' and inserting ``a bonus 
        payment''; and
            (B) by striking ``353'' and inserting ``353(b)''.
    (e) Report.--Not later than February 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
setting forth the empirical case for an increase in special and 
incentive pay for aviation officers in order to address a specific, 
statistically-based retention problem with respect to such officers. 
The report shall include the results of a study, conducted by the 
Secretary in connection with the case, on a market-based compensation 
approach to the retention of such officers that considers the pay and 
allowances offered by commercial airlines to pilots and the propensity 
of pilots to leave the Air Force to become commercial airline pilots.
    SEC. 618. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE AUTHORITY TO PAY BONUS TO ENCOURAGE 
      ARMY PERSONNEL TO REFER PERSONS FOR ENLISTMENT IN THE ARMY.
    (a) Repeal.--Section 3252 of title 10, United States Code, is 
repealed.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 333 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 3252.

            Subtitle C--Travel and Transportation Allowances

    SEC. 621. TRANSPORTATION TO TRANSFER CEREMONIES FOR FAMILY AND NEXT 
      OF KIN OF MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES WHO DIE OVERSEAS DURING 
      HUMANITARIAN OPERATIONS.
    Section 481f(e)(1) of title 37, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``(including during a humanitarian relief operation)'' after 
``located or serving overseas''.
    SEC. 622. REPEAL OF OBSOLETE SPECIAL TRAVEL AND TRANSPORTATION 
      ALLOWANCE FOR SURVIVORS OF DECEASED MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES 
      FROM THE VIETNAM CONFLICT.
    (a) Repeal and Redesignation.--Section 481f of title 37, United 
States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), and (h) as 
    subsections (d), (e), (f), and (g), respectively.
    (b) Conforming Amendment to Cross Reference.--Section 
2493(a)(4)(B)(ii) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``section 481f(e)'' and inserting ``section 481f(d)''.
    SEC. 623. STUDY AND REPORT ON POLICY CHANGES TO THE JOINT TRAVEL 
      REGULATIONS.
    (a) Study.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on the impact of the policy changes to the Joint Travel 
Regulations for the Uniformed Service Members and Department of Defense 
Civilian Employees related to flat rate per diem for long term 
temporary duty travel that took effect on November 1, 2014. The study 
shall assess the following:
        (1) The impact of such changes on shipyard workers who travel 
    on long-term temporary duty assignments.
        (2) Whether such changes have discouraged employees of the 
    Department of Defense, including civilian employees at shipyards 
    and depots, from volunteering for important temporary duty travel 
    assignments.
    (b) Report.--Not later than June 1, 2016, the Comptroller General 
shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives a report on 
the study required by subsection (a).

     Subtitle D--Disability Pay, Retired Pay, and Survivor Benefits

                       PART I--RETIRED PAY REFORM

    SEC. 631. MODERNIZED RETIREMENT SYSTEM FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED 
      SERVICES.
    (a) Regular Service.--Section 1409(b) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Modernized retirement system.--
            ``(A) Reduced multiplier for full tsp members.--
        Notwithstanding paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), in the case of a 
        member who first becomes a member of the uniformed services on 
        or after January 1, 2018, or a member who makes the election 
        described in subparagraph (B) (referred to as a `full TSP 
        member')--
                ``(i) paragraph (1)(A) shall be applied by substituting 
            `2' for `2\1/2\';
                ``(ii) clause (i) of paragraph (3)(B) shall be applied 
            by substituting `60 percent' for `75 percent'; and
                ``(iii) clause (ii)(I) of such paragraph shall be 
            applied by substituting `2' for `2\1/2\'.
            ``(B) Election to participate in modernized retirement 
        system.--Pursuant to subparagraph (C), a member of a uniformed 
        service serving on December 31, 2017, who has served in the 
        uniformed services for fewer than 12 years as of December 31, 
        2017, may elect, in exchange for the reduced multipliers 
        described in subparagraph (A) for purposes of calculating the 
        retired pay of the member, to receive Thrift Savings Plan 
        contributions pursuant to section 8440e(e) of title 5.
            ``(C) Election period.--
                ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clauses (ii) 
            and (iii), a member of a uniformed service described in 
            subparagraph (B) may make the election authorized by that 
            subparagraph only during the period that begins on January 
            1, 2018, and ends on December 31, 2018.
                ``(ii) Hardship extension.--The Secretary concerned may 
            extend the election period described in clause (i) for a 
            member who experiences a hardship as determined by the 
            Secretary concerned.
                ``(iii) Effect of break in service.--A member of a 
            uniformed service who returns to service after a break in 
            service that occurs during the election period specified in 
            clause (i) shall make the election described in 
            subparagraph (B) within 30 days after the date of the 
            reentry into service of the member.
            ``(D) No retroactive contributions pursuant to election.--
        Thrift Savings Plan contributions may not be made for a member 
        making an election pursuant to subparagraph (B) for any period 
        beginning before the date of the member's election under that 
        subparagraph by reason of the member's election.
            ``(E) Regulations.--The Secretary concerned shall prescribe 
        regulations to implement this paragraph.''.
    (b) Non-regular Service.--Section 12739 of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Modernized Retirement System.--
        ``(1) Reduced multiplier for full tsp members.--Notwithstanding 
    subsection (a) or (c), in the case of a person who first performs 
    reserve component service on or after January 1, 2018, after not 
    having performed regular or reserve component service on or before 
    that date, or a person who makes the election described in 
    paragraph (2) (referred to as a `full TSP member')--
            ``(A) subsection (a)(2) shall be applied by substituting `2 
        percent' for `2\1/2\ percent';
            ``(B) subparagraph (A) of subsection (c)(2) shall be 
        applied by substituting `60 percent' for `75 percent'; and
            ``(C) subparagraph (B)(ii) of such subsection shall be 
        applied by substituting `2 percent' for `2\1/2\ percent'.
        ``(2) Election to participate in modernized retirement 
    system.--
            ``(A) In general.--Pursuant to subparagraph (B), a person 
        performing reserve component service on December 31, 2017, who 
        has performed fewer than 12 years of service as of December 31, 
        2017 (as computed in accordance with section 12733 of this 
        title), may elect, in exchange for the reduced multipliers 
        described in paragraph (1) for purposes of calculating the 
        retired pay of the person, to receive Thrift Savings Plan 
        contributions pursuant to section 8440e(e) of title 5.
            ``(B) Election period.--
                ``(i) In general.--Except as provided in clauses (ii) 
            and (iii), a person described in subparagraph (A) may make 
            the election described in that subparagraph during the 
            period that begins on January 1, 2018, and ends on December 
            31, 2018.
                ``(ii) Hardship extension.--The Secretary concerned may 
            extend the election period described in clause (i) for a 
            person who experiences a hardship as determined by the 
            Secretary concerned.
                ``(iii) Persons experiencing break in service.--A 
            person returning to reserve component service after a break 
            in reserve component service in which falls the election 
            period specified in clause (i) shall make the election 
            described in subparagraph (A) on the date of the reentry 
            into service of the person.
            ``(C) No retroactive contributions pursuant to election.--
        Thrift Savings Plan contributions may not be made for a person 
        making an election pursuant to subparagraph (A) for any pay 
        period beginning before the date of the person's election under 
        that subparagraph by reason of the person's election.
        ``(3) Regulations.--The Secretary concerned shall prescribe 
    regulations to implement this subsection.''.
    (c) Coordinating Amendments to Other Retirement Authorities.--
        (1) Disability, warrant officers, and dopma retired pay.--
            (A) Computation of retired pay.--The table in section 
        1401(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                (i) in paragraph (1) in column 2 of formula number 1, 
            by striking ``2\1/2\% of years of service credited to him 
            under section 1208'' and inserting ``the retired pay 
            multiplier determined for the member under section 1409 of 
            this title''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (1) in column 2 of formula number 2, 
            by striking ``2\1/2\% of years of service credited to him 
            under section 1208'' and inserting ``the retired pay 
            multiplier determined for the member under section 1409 of 
            this title''; and
                (iii) in column 2 of each of formula number 4 and 
            formula number 5, by striking ``section 1409(a)'' and 
            inserting ``section 1409''.
            (B) Clarification regarding modernized retirement system.--
        Section 1401a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
                (i) by redesignating paragraph (5) as paragraph (6); 
            and
                (ii) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
            paragraph (5):
        ``(5) Adjustments for participants in modernized retirement 
    system.--Notwithstanding paragraph (3), if a member or former 
    member participates in the modernized retirement system by reason 
    of section 1409(b)(4) of this title (including pursuant to an 
    election under subparagraph (B) of that section), the Secretary 
    shall increase the retired pay of such member in accordance with 
    paragraph (2).''.
        (2) 15-year career status bonus.--Section 354 of title 37, 
    United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subsection (f)--
                (i) by striking ``If a'' and inserting ``(1) If a''; 
            and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) If a person who is paid a bonus under this section 
subsequently makes an election described in section 1409(b)(4)(B) of 
title 10, the person shall repay any bonus payments received under this 
section in the same manner as repayments are made under section 373 of 
this title.''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Sunset and Continuation of Payments.--(1) A Secretary 
concerned may not pay a new bonus under this section after December 31, 
2017.
    ``(2) Subject to subsection (f)(2), the Secretary concerned may 
continue to make payments for bonuses that were awarded under this 
section on or before the date specified in paragraph (1).''.
        (3) Application to national oceanic and atmospheric 
    administration commissioned corps.--Paragraph (2) of section 245(a) 
    of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration Commissioned 
    Officer Corps Act of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3045(a)) is amended to read as 
    follows:
        ``(2) the retired pay multiplier determined under section 1409 
    of such title for the number of years of service that may be 
    credited to the officer under section 1405 of such title as if the 
    officer's service were service as a member of the Armed Forces.''.
        (4) Application to public health service.--Section 211(a)(4) of 
    the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 212(a)(4)) is amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``at the rate of 2 \1/2\ per centum of the basic pay of the 
        highest grade held by him as such officer'' and inserting 
        ``calculated by multiplying the retired pay base determined 
        under section 1406 of title 10, United States Code, by the 
        retired pay multiplier determined under section 1409 of such 
        title for the numbers of years of service credited to the 
        officer under this paragraph''; and
            (B) in the matter following subparagraph (B)(iii)--
                (i) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``such pay, and'' 
            and inserting ``such pay,''; and
                (ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``such basic 
            pay.'' and inserting ``such basic pay, and (E) in the case 
            of any officer who participates in the modernized 
            retirement system by reason of section 1409(b) of title 10, 
            United States Code (including pursuant to an election under 
            subparagraph (B) of that section), subparagraph (C) shall 
            be applied by substituting `40 per centum' for `50 per 
            centum' each place the term appears.''.
    (d) Repeal of Reduced Cost-of-living Adjustments for Members Under 
the Age of 62.--The following amendments shall not take effect:
        (1) The amendments to be made by section 403 of the Bipartisan 
    Budget Act of 2013 (Public Law 113-67; 127 Stat. 1186), as amended 
    by section 10001(a) of the Department of Defense Appropriations 
    Act, 2014 (division C of Public Law 113-76; 128 Stat. 151), section 
    2 of Public Law 113-82 (128 Stat. 1009), and section 623 of the 
    Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
    Stat. 3403).
        (2) The amendments to be made by section 10001(b) of the 
    Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2014.
    SEC. 632. FULL PARTICIPATION FOR MEMBERS OF THE UNIFORMED SERVICES 
      IN THE THRIFT SAVINGS PLAN.
    (a) Modernized Retirement System.--
        (1) Definitions.--Section 8440e(a) of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting 
    the following new paragraphs:
        ``(1) the term `basic pay' means basic pay payable under 
    section 204 of title 37;
        ``(2) the term `full TSP member' means a member described in 
    subsection (e)(1);
        ``(3) the term `member' has the meaning given the term in 
    section 211 of title 37; and
        ``(4) the term `Secretary concerned' has the meaning given the 
    term in section 101 of title 37.''.
        (2) TSP contributions.--Subsection (e) of section 8440e of 
    title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Modernized Retirement System.--
        ``(1) TSP contributions.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
    of law, the Secretary concerned shall make contributions to the 
    Thrift Savings Fund, in accordance with section 8432 (except to the 
    extent the requirements under such section are modified by this 
    subsection), for the benefit of a member--
            ``(A) who first enters a uniformed service on or after 
        January 1, 2018; or
            ``(B) who--
                ``(i) first entered a uniformed service before January 
            1, 2018;
                ``(ii) has completed fewer than 12 years of service in 
            the uniformed services as of December 31, 2017; and
                ``(iii) makes the election described in section 
            1409(b)(4)(B) or 12729(f)(2) of title 10 to receive Thrift 
            Savings Plan contributions under this subsection in 
            exchange for the reduced multipliers described in section 
            1409(b)(4)(A) or 12739(f)(1) of title 10, as applicable, 
            for purposes of calculating the retired pay of the member.
        ``(2) Maximum amount.--The amount contributed under this 
    subsection by the Secretary concerned for the benefit of a full TSP 
    member for any pay period shall not be more than 5 percent of the 
    member's basic pay for such pay period. Any such contribution under 
    this subsection, though in accordance with section 8432 as provided 
    in paragraph (1), is instead of, and not in addition to, amounts 
    contributable under section 8432 as provided in section 8432(c).
        ``(3) Timing and duration of contributions.--
            ``(A) Automatic contributions.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall make a contribution described in section 8432(c)(1) under 
        this subsection for the benefit of a member described in 
        paragraph (1) for any pay period during the period that--
                ``(i) begins--

                    ``(I) on or after the day that is 60 days afer the 
                date the member first enters a uniformed service, in 
                the case of a member described in paragraph (1)(A); or
                    ``(II) on or after the date the member makes the 
                election described in paragraph (1)(B), in the case of 
                a member making such an election; and

                ``(ii) ends on the day such member completes 26 years 
            of service as a member of the uniformed services.
            ``(B) Matching contributions.--The Secretary concerned 
        shall make a contribution described in section 8432(c)(2) under 
        this subsection for the benefit of a member described in 
        paragraph (1) for any pay period during the period that--
                ``(i) begins--

                    ``(I) on or after the day that is 2 years and 1 day 
                after the date the member first enters a uniformed 
                service, in the case of a member described in paragraph 
                (1)(A); or
                    ``(II) on or after the date the member makes the 
                election described in paragraph (1)(B), in the case of 
                a member making such an election; and

                ``(ii) ends on the day such member completes 26 years 
            of service as a member of the uniformed services.
        ``(4) Protections for spouses and former spouses.--Section 8435 
    shall apply to a full TSP member in the same manner as such section 
    is applied to an employee or Member under such section.''.
    (b) Automatic Enrollment in Thrift Savings Plan.--Section 
8432(b)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (D)(ii), by striking ``Members'' and 
    inserting ``(ii) Except in the case of a full TSP member (as 
    defined in section 8440e(a)), members'';
        (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``8440e(a)(1)'' and 
    inserting ``8440e(b)(1)''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
    ``(F) Notwithstanding any other provision of this paragraph, if a 
full TSP member (as defined in section 8440e(a)) has declined automatic 
enrollment into the Thrift Savings Plan for a year, the full TSP member 
shall be automatically reenrolled on January 1 of the succeeding year, 
with contributions under subsection (a) at the default percentage of 
basic pay.''.
    (c) Vesting.--
        (1) Two-years of service.--Section 8432(g)(2) of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (A)(iii), by striking ``or'' after the 
        semicolon;
            (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(C) 2 years of service in the case of a member of the 
    uniformed services.''.
        (2) Separation.--Section 8432(g) of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(6) For purposes of this subsection, a member of the uniformed 
services shall be considered to have separated from Government 
employment if the member is discharged or released from service in the 
uniformed services.''.
    (d) Thrift Savings Plan Default Investment Fund.--Section 
8438(c)(2) of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(A) Consistent with the 
    requirements of subparagraph (B), if an'' and inserting ``If an''; 
    and
        (2) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (e) Repeal of Separate Contribution Agreement Authority.--
        (1) Repeal.--Section 211 of title 37, United States Code, is 
    amended--
            (A) by striking subsection (d); and
            (B) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 8432b(c)(2)(B) of title 5, 
    United States Code, is amended by striking ``(including pursuant to 
    an agreement under section 211(d) of title 37)''.
    SEC. 633. LUMP SUM PAYMENTS OF CERTAIN RETIRED PAY.
    (a) Lump Sum Payments of Certain Retired Pay.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 71 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1415. Lump sum payment of certain retired pay
    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) Covered retired pay.--The term `covered retired pay' 
    means retired pay under--
            ``(A) this title;
            ``(B) title 14;
            ``(C) the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 
        Commissioned Officer Corps Act of 2002 (33 U.S.C. 3001 et 
        seq.); or
            ``(D) the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 201 et 
        seq.).
        ``(2) Eligible person.--The term `eligible person' means a 
    person who--
            ``(A)(i) first becomes a member of a uniformed service on 
        or after January 1, 2018; or
            ``(ii) makes the election described in section 
        1409(b)(4)(B) or 12739(f)(2) of this title; and
            ``(B) does not retire or separate under chapter 61 of this 
        title.
        ``(3) Retirement age.--The term `retirement age' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 216(l) of the Social Security Act 
    (42 U.S.C. 416(l)).
    ``(b) Election of Lump Sum Payment of Certain Retired Pay.--
        ``(1) In general.--An eligible person entitled to covered 
    retired pay (including an eligible person who is entitled to such 
    pay by reason of an election described in subsection (a)(2)(A)(ii)) 
    may elect to receive--
            ``(A) a lump sum payment of the discounted present value at 
        the time of the election of an amount of the covered retired 
        pay that the eligible person is otherwise entitled to receive 
        for the period beginning on the date of retirement and ending 
        on the date the eligible person attains the eligible person's 
        retirement age equal to--
                ``(i) 50 percent of the amount of such covered retired 
            pay during such period; or
                ``(ii) 25 percent of the amount of such covered retired 
            pay during such period; and
            ``(B) a monthly amount during the period described in 
        subparagraph (A) equal to--
                ``(i) in the case of an eligible person electing to 
            receive an amount described in subparagraph (A)(i), 50 
            percent of the amount of monthly covered retired pay the 
            eligible person is otherwise entitled to receive during 
            such period; and
                ``(ii) in the case of an eligible person electing to 
            receive an amount described in subparagraph (A)(ii), 75 
            percent of the amount of monthly covered retired pay the 
            eligible person is otherwise entitled to receive during 
            such period
        ``(2) Discounted present value.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    compute the discounted present value of amounts of covered retired 
    pay that an eligible person is otherwise entitled to receive for a 
    period for purposes of paragraph (1)(A) by--
            ``(A) estimating the aggregate amount of retired pay the 
        person would receive for the period, taking into account cost-
        of-living adjustments under section 1401a of this title 
        projected by the Secretary at the time the person separates 
        from service and would otherwise begin receiving covered 
        retired pay; and
            ``(B) reducing the aggregate amount estimated pursuant to 
        subparagraph (A) by an appropriate percentage determined by the 
        Secretary--
                ``(i) using average personal discount rates (as defined 
            and calculated by the Secretary taking into consideration 
            applicable and reputable studies of personal discount rates 
            for military personnel and past actuarial experience in the 
            calculation of personal discount rates under this 
            paragraph); and
                ``(ii) in accordance with generally accepted actuarial 
            principles and practices.
        ``(3) Timing of election.--An eligible person shall make the 
    election under this subsection not later than 90 days before the 
    date of the retirement of the eligible person from the uniformed 
    services.
        ``(4) Single payment or combination of payments.--An eligible 
    person may elect to receive a lump sum payment under this 
    subsection in a single payment or in a combination of payments.
        ``(5) Commencement of payment.--An eligible person who makes an 
    election under this subsection shall receive the lump sum payment, 
    or the first installment of a combination of payments of the lump 
    sum payment if elected under paragraph (4), as follows:
            ``(A) Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
        retirement of the eligible person from the uniformed services.
            ``(B) In the case of an eligible person who is a member of 
        a reserve component, not later than 60 days after the earlier 
        of--
                ``(i) the date on which the eligible person attains 60 
            years of age; or
                ``(ii) the date on which the eligible person first 
            becomes entitled to covered retired pay.
        ``(6) No subsequent adjustment.--An eligible person who accepts 
    payment of a lump sum under this subsection may not seek the review 
    of or otherwise challenge the amount of the lump sum in light of 
    any variation in cost-of-living adjustments under section 1401a of 
    this title, actuarial assumptions, or other factors used by the 
    Secretary in calculating the amount of the lump sum that occur 
    after the Secretary pays the lump sum.
    ``(c) Resumption of Monthly Annuity.--
        ``(1) General rule.--Subject to paragraph (2), an eligible 
    person who makes an election described in subsection (b)(1) shall 
    be entitled to receive the eligible person's monthly covered 
    retired pay calculated in accordance with paragraph (2) after the 
    eligible person attains the eligible person's retirement age.
        ``(2) Restoration of full retirement amount at retirement 
    age.--The retired pay of an eligible person who makes an election 
    described in subsection (a) shall be recomputed, effective on the 
    first day of the first month beginning after the person attains the 
    eligible person's retirement age, so as to be an amount equal to 
    the amount of covered retired pay to which the eligible person 
    would otherwise be entitled on that date if the annual increases, 
    in the retired pay of the eligible person made to reflect changes 
    in the Consumer Price Index, had been made in accordance with 
    section 1401a of this title.
    ``(d) Payment of Retired Pay to Persons Not Making Election.--An 
eligible person who does not make the election described in subsection 
(b)(1) shall be paid the retired pay to which the eligible person is 
otherwise entitled under the applicable provisions of law referred to 
in subsection (a)(1).
    ``(e) Regulations.--The Secretary of Defense concerned shall 
prescribe regulations to carry out the provisions of this section.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 71 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``1415. Lump sum payment of certain retired pay.''.

        (3) Payments from department of defense military retirement 
    fund.--Section 1463(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking ``or 1414'' and inserting ``, 1414, or 1415''.
    (b) Offset of Veterans Pension and Compensation by Amount of Lump 
Sum Payments.--Section 5304 of title 38, United States Code, is amended 
by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) Other than amounts payable under section 1413a or 1414 of 
title 10, the amount of pension and compensation benefits payable to a 
person under this title shall be reduced by the amount of any lump sum 
payment made to such person under section 1415 of title 10.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall collect any reduction under paragraph (1) 
from amounts otherwise payable to the person under this title, 
including pension and compensation payable under this title, before any 
pension and compensation payments under this title may be paid to the 
person.''.
    SEC. 634. CONTINUATION PAY FOR FULL TSP MEMBERS WITH 12 YEARS OF 
      SERVICE.
    (a) Continuation Pay.--Subchapter II of chapter 5 of title 37, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
section:
``Sec. 356. Continuation pay: full TSP members with 12 years of service
    ``(a) Continuation Pay.--The Secretary concerned shall make a 
payment of continuation pay to each full TSP member (as defined in 
section 8440e(a) of title 5) of the uniformed services under the 
jurisdiction of the Secretary who--
        ``(1) completes 12 years of service; and
        ``(2) enters into an agreement with the Secretary to serve for 
    an additional 4 years of obligated service.
    ``(b) Amount.--The amount of continuation pay payable to a full TSP 
member under subsection (a) shall be the amount that is equal to--
        ``(1) in the case of a member of a regular component--
            ``(A) the monthly basic pay of the member at 12 years of 
        service multiplied by 2.5; plus
            ``(B) at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, the 
        monthly basic pay of the member at 12 years of service 
        multiplied by such number of months (not to exceed 13 months) 
        as the Secretary concerned shall specify in the agreement of 
        the member under subsection (a); and
        ``(2) in the case of a member of a reserve component--
            ``(A) the amount of monthly basic pay to which the member 
        would be entitled at 12 years of service if the member were a 
        member of a regular component multiplied by 0.5; plus
            ``(B) at the discretion of the Secretary concerned, the 
        amount of monthly basic pay described in subparagraph (A) 
        multiplied by such number of months (not to exceed 6 months) as 
        the Secretary concerned shall specify in the agreement of the 
        member under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Additional Discretionary Authority.--In addition to the 
continuation pay required under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned 
may provide continuation pay under this subsection to a full TSP member 
described in subsection (a), and subject to the service agreement 
referred to in paragraph (2) of such subsection, in an amount 
determined by the Secretary concerned.
    ``(d) Timing of Payment.--The Secretary concerned shall pay 
continuation pay under subsection (a) to a full TSP member when the 
member completes 12 years of service. If the Secretary concerned also 
provides continuation pay under subsection (c) to the member, that 
continuation pay shall be provided when the member completes 12 years 
of service.
    ``(e) Lump Sum or Installments.--A full TSP member may elect to 
receive continuation pay provided under subsection (a) or (c) in a lump 
sum or in a series of not more than four payments.
    ``(f) Relationship to Other Pay and Allowances.--Continuation pay 
under this section is in addition to any other pay or allowance to 
which the full TSP member is entitled.
    ``(g) Repayment.--A full TSP member who receives continuation pay 
under this section (a) and fails to complete the obligated service 
required under such subsection shall be subject to the repayment 
provisions of section 373 of this title.
    ``(h) Regulations.--Each Secretary concerned shall prescribe 
regulations to carry out this section.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 5 of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
end the following new item:

``356. Continuation pay: full TSP members with 12 years of service.''.
    SEC. 635. EFFECTIVE DATE AND IMPLEMENTATION.
    (a) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this part shall take 
effect on January 1, 2018.
    (b) Implementation.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretaries concerned, the Director of the 
    Office of Personnel Management, and the Federal Retirement Thrift 
    Investment Board shall each and jointly take appropriate actions to 
    ensure the full and effective implementation of the amendments made 
    by this part in order to ensure that members of the uniformed 
    services will be able to participate in the modernized retirement 
    plan provided by this part commencing on the date specified in 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Implementation plan.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the 
    Secretaries concerned shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress a report containing a plan to ensure the full and 
    effective commencement and operational implementation of the 
    amendments made by this part in accordance with paragraph (1).
    (c) Additional Technical and Conforming Amendments.--The report 
required by subsection (b) shall contain a draft of such legislation as 
may be necessary to make any additional technical and conforming 
changes to titles 10 and 37, United States Code, and other provisions 
of law that are required or should be made by reason of the amendments 
made by this part.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Natural Resources, the 
        Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and the Committee 
        on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Energy 
        and Natural Resources, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs, and the Committee on Health, Education, 
        Labor, and Pensions of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``Secretary concerned'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 101 of title 37, United States Code.

                         PART II--OTHER MATTERS

    SEC. 641. DEATH OF FORMER SPOUSE BENEFICIARIES AND SUBSEQUENT 
      REMARRIAGES UNDER THE SURVIVOR BENEFIT PLAN.
    (a) In General.--Section 1448(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(7) Effect of death of former spouse beneficiary.--
            ``(A) Termination of participation in plan.--A person who 
        elects to provide an annuity to a former spouse under paragraph 
        (2) or (3) and whose former spouse subsequently dies is no 
        longer a participant in the Plan, effective on the date of 
        death of the former spouse.
            ``(B) Authority for election of new spouse beneficiary.--If 
        a person's participation in the Plan is discontinued by reason 
        of the death of a former spouse beneficiary, the person may 
        elect to resume participation in the Plan and to elect a new 
        spouse beneficiary as follows:
                ``(i) Married on the date of death of former spouse.--A 
            person who is married at the time of the death of the 
            former spouse beneficiary may elect to provide coverage to 
            that person's spouse. Such an election must be received by 
            the Secretary concerned within one year after the date of 
            death of the former spouse beneficiary.
                ``(ii) Marriage after death of former spouse 
            beneficiary.--A person who is not married at the time of 
            the death of the former spouse beneficiary and who later 
            marries may elect to provide spouse coverage. Such an 
            election must be received by the Secretary concerned within 
            one year after the date on which that person marries.
            ``(C) Effective date of election.--The effective date of 
        election under this paragraph shall be as follows:
                ``(i) An election under subparagraph (B)(i) is 
            effective as of the first day of the first calendar month 
            following the death of the former spouse beneficiary.
                ``(ii) An election under subparagraph (B)(ii) is 
            effective as of the first day of the first calendar month 
            following the month in which the election is received by 
            the Secretary concerned.
            ``(D) Level of coverage.--A person making an election under 
        subparagraph (B) may not reduce the base amount previously 
        elected.
            ``(E) Procedures.--An election under this paragraph shall 
        be in writing, signed by the participant, and made in such form 
        and manner as the Secretary concerned may prescribe.
            ``(F) Irrevocability.--An election under this paragraph is 
        irrevocable.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--Paragraph (7) of section 1448(b) of title 10, 
United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall apply with 
respect to any person whose former spouse beneficiary dies on or after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (c) Applicability to Former Spouse Deaths Before Enactment.--
        (1) In general.--A person--
            (A) who before the date of the enactment of this Act had a 
        former spouse beneficiary under the Survivor Benefit Plan who 
        died before that date; and
            (B) who on the date of the enactment of this Act is 
        married,
    may elect to provide spouse coverage for such spouse under the 
    Plan, regardless of whether the person married such spouse before 
    or after the death of the former spouse beneficiary. Any such 
    election may only be made during the one-year period beginning on 
    the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Effective date of election if married at least a year at 
    death former spouse.--If the person providing the annuity was 
    married to the spouse beneficiary for at least one year at the time 
    of the death of the former spouse beneficiary, the effective date 
    of such election shall be the first day of the first month after 
    the death of the former spouse beneficiary.
        (3) Other effective date.--If the person providing the annuity 
    married the spouse beneficiary after (or during the one-year period 
    preceding) the death of the former spouse beneficiary, the 
    effective date of the election shall be the first day of the first 
    month following the first anniversary of the person's marriage to 
    the spouse beneficiary.
        (4) Responsibility for premiums.--A person electing to 
    participate in the Plan under this subsection shall be responsible 
    for payment of all premiums due from the effective date of the 
    election.

   Subtitle E--Commissary and Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality 
                        Benefits and Operations

    SEC. 651. PLAN TO OBTAIN BUDGET-NEUTRALITY FOR THE DEFENSE 
      COMMISSARY SYSTEM AND THE MILITARY EXCHANGE SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate 
and the House of Representatives a report setting forth a comprehensive 
plan to achieve by October 1, 2018, budget-neutrality in the delivery 
of commissary and exchange benefits while meeting the benchmarks set 
forth in subsection (c). In preparing the report, the Secretary shall 
consider the report required by section 634 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3406) and any other previous 
reports, studies, and surveys of matters appropriate to the report.
    (b) Report Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A description of any modifications to the commissary and 
    exchange benefit systems the Secretary considers appropriate to 
    obtain budget-neutrality in the delivery of commissary and exchange 
    benefits, including the following:
            (A) The establishment of common business processes, 
        practices, and systems to exploit synergies between the 
        operations of defense commissaries and exchanges and to 
        optimize the operations of the resale system and the benefits 
        provided by the commissaries and exchanges.
            (B) The privatization of the defense commissary system and 
        the military exchange system, in whole or in part.
            (C) Engagement of major commercial grocery retailers or 
        other private sector entities to determine their willingness to 
        provide eligible beneficiaries with discount savings on grocery 
        products and certain household goods.
            (D) The closure of commissaries in locations in close 
        proximity to other commissaries or in locations where 
        commercial alternatives, through major grocery retailers, may 
        be available.
        (2) An analysis of different pricing constructs to improve or 
    enhance the delivery of commissary and exchange benefits.
        (3) A description of the impact of any modifications described 
    pursuant to paragraph (1) on Morale, Welfare and Recreation (MWR) 
    quality-of-life programs.
        (4) Such recommendations for legislative action as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate to achieve by October 1, 2018, 
    budget-neutrality in the delivery of commissary and exchange 
    benefits while meeting the benchmarks set forth in subsection (c).
    (c) Benchmarks.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
ensure--
        (1) the maintenance of high levels of customer satisfaction in 
    the delivery of commissary and exchange benefits;
        (2) the provision of high quality products; and
        (3) the sustainment of discount savings to eligible 
    beneficiaries.
    (d) Comptroller General Assessment of Plan.--Not later than 120 
days after the submittal of the report required by subsection (a), the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
report setting forth an assessment by the Comptroller General of the 
plan to achieve budget-neutrality in the delivery of commissary and 
exchange benefits while meeting the benchmarks set forth in subsection 
(c) as set forth in the report required by subsection (a).
    (e) Pilot Programs.--
        (1) Programs authorized.--After the reports required by 
    subsections (a) and (d) have been submitted as described in such 
    subsections, the Secretary may, notwithstanding any requirement in 
    chapter 147 of title 10, United States Code, conduct one or more 
    pilot programs to evaluate the feasibility and advisability of 
    processes and methods for achieving budget-neutrality in the 
    delivery of commissary and exchange benefits and other applicable 
    benchmarks in accordance with this section. The Secretary may 
    authorize any commissary or exchange, or private sector entity, 
    participating in any such pilot program to establish appropriate 
    prices in response to market conditions and customer demand, 
    provided that the level of savings required by paragraph (3) is 
    maintained.
        (2) Benchmarks.--If the Secretary conducts a pilot program 
    under this subsection, the Secretary shall establish specific, 
    measurable benchmarks for measuring success in the provision of 
    high quality grocery goods and products, discount savings to 
    patrons, and high levels of customer satisfaction while achieving 
    budget-neutrality in the delivery of commissary and exchange 
    benefits under the pilot program.
        (3) Required savings to patrons.--The Secretary shall ensure 
    that the level of savings to commissary and exchange patrons under 
    any pilot program under this subsection is not less than the level 
    of savings to such patrons before the implementation of such pilot 
    program, as follows:
            (A) Before commencing a pilot program the Secretary shall 
        establish a baseline of savings to patrons achieved for each 
        commissary or exchange to participate in such pilot program by 
        comparing prices charged by such commissary or exchange for a 
        representative market basket of goods to prices charged by 
        local competitors for the same market basket of goods.
            (B) After commencement of such pilot program, the Secretary 
        shall ensure that each commissary or exchange, or private 
        sector entity, participating in such pilot program conducts 
        market-basket price comparisons not less than once a month and 
        adjusts pricing as necessary to ensure that pricing achieves 
        savings to patrons under such pilot program that are reasonably 
        consistent with the baseline savings for the commissary or 
        exchange established pursuant to subparagraph (A).
        (4) Duration of authority.--The authority of the Secretary to 
    carry out a pilot program under this subsection shall expire on the 
    date that is five years after the date of the enactment of this 
    Act. However, if a pilot program achieves budget-neutrality in the 
    delivery of commissary and exchange benefits and other applicable 
    benchmarks, as measured using the benchmarks required by paragraph 
    (2), the Secretary may continue the pilot program for an additional 
    period of up to five years.
        (5) Reports.--
            (A) Initial reports.--If the Secretary conducts a pilot 
        program under this subsection, the Secretary shall, not later 
        than 30 days before commencing the pilot program, submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program, including the 
        following:
                (i) A description of the pilot program.
                (ii) The provisions, if any, of chapter 147 of title 
            10, United States Code, that will be waived in the conduct 
            of the pilot program.
            (B) Final reports.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
        of the completion of any pilot program under this subsection or 
        the date of the commencement of an extension of a pilot program 
        under paragraph (4), the Secretary shall submit to the 
        Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
        Representatives a report on the pilot program, including the 
        following:
                (i) A description and assessment of the pilot program.
                (ii) Such recommendations for administrative or 
            legislative action as the Secretary considers appropriate 
            in light of the pilot program.
    SEC. 652. COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES REPORT ON THE 
      COMMISSARY SURCHARGE, NON-APPROPRIATED FUND, AND PRIVATELY-
      FINANCED MAJOR CONSTRUCTION PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the 
House of Representatives a report on the Commissary Surcharge, Non-
appropriated Fund and Privately-Financed Major Construction Program of 
the Department of Defense.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment whether the Secretary of Defense has 
    established policies and procedures to ensure the timely submittal 
    to the committees of Congress referred to in subsection (a) of 
    notice on construction projects proposed to be funded through the 
    program referred to in that subsection.
        (2) An assessment whether the Secretaries of the military 
    departments have developed and implemented policies and procedures 
    to comply with the policies and directives of the Department of 
    Defense for the submittal to such committees of Congress of notice 
    on such construction projects.
        (3) An assessment whether the Secretary of Defense has 
    established policies and procedures to notify such committees of 
    Congress when such construction projects have been commenced 
    without notice to Congress.
        (4) An assessment whether construction projects described in 
    paragraph (3) have been completed before submittal of notice to 
    Congress as described in that paragraph and, if so, a list of such 
    projects.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

    SEC. 661. IMPROVEMENT OF FINANCIAL LITERACY AND PREPAREDNESS OF 
      MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Sense of Congress on Financial Literacy and Preparedness of 
Members.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense should strengthen arrangements 
    with other departments and agencies of the Federal Government and 
    nonprofit organizations in order to improve the financial literacy 
    and preparedness of members of the Armed Forces; and
        (2) the Secretaries of the military departments and the Chiefs 
    of Staff of the Armed Forces should provide support for the 
    financial literacy and preparedness training carried out under 
    section 992 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
    subsections (b), (c), and (d).
    (b) Provision of Financial Literacy and Preparedness Training.--
Subsection (a) of section 992 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Consumer 
    Education'' and inserting ``Financial Literacy Training'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``education'' in the matter 
    preceding subparagraph (A) and inserting ``financial literacy 
    training'';
        (3) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph:
    ``(2) Training under this subsection shall be provided to a member 
of the armed forces--
        ``(A) as a component of the initial entry training of the 
    member;
        ``(B) upon arrival at the first duty station of the member;
        ``(C) upon arrival at each subsequent duty station, in the case 
    of a member in pay grade E-4 or below or in pay grade O-3 or below;
        ``(D) on the date of promotion of the member, in the case of a 
    member in pay grade E-5 or below or in pay grade O-4 or below;
        ``(E) when the member vests in the Thrift Savings Plan (TSP) 
    under section 8432(g)(2)(C) of title 5;
        ``(F) when the member becomes entitled to receive continuation 
    pay under section 356 of title 37, at which time the training shall 
    include, at a minimum, information on options available to the 
    member regarding the use of continuation pay;
        ``(G) at each major life event during the service of the 
    member, such as--
            ``(i) marriage;
            ``(ii) divorce;
            ``(iii) birth of first child; or
            ``(iv) disabling sickness or condition;
        ``(H) during leadership training;
        ``(I) during pre-deployment training and during post-deployment 
    training;
        ``(J) at transition points in the service of the member, such 
    as--
            ``(i) transition from a regular component to a reserve 
        component;
            ``(ii) separation from service; or
            ``(iii) retirement; and
        ``(K) as a component of periodically recurring required 
    training that is provided to the member at a military 
    installation.'';
        (4) in paragraph (3), by striking ``paragraph (2)(B)'' and 
    inserting ``paragraph (2)(J)''; and
        (5) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The Secretary concerned shall prescribe regulations setting 
forth any other events and circumstances (in addition to the events and 
circumstances described in paragraph (2)) upon which the training 
required by this subsection shall be provided.''.
    (c) Survey of Members' Financial Literacy and Preparedness.--Such 
section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Financial Literacy and Preparedness Survey.--(1) The Director 
of the Defense Manpower Data Center shall annually include in the 
status of forces survey a survey of the status of the financial 
literacy and preparedness of members of the armed forces.
    ``(2) The results of the annual financial literacy and preparedness 
survey--
        ``(A) shall be used by each of the Secretaries concerned as a 
    benchmark to evaluate and update training provided under this 
    section; and
        ``(B) shall be submitted to the Committees on Armed Services of 
    the Senate and the House of Representatives.''.
    (d) Financial Services Defined.--Subsection (e) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (c)(1) of this section, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Health insurance, budget management, Thrift Savings Plan 
    (TSP), retirement lump sum payments (including rollover options and 
    tax consequences), and Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP).''.
    (e) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading .--The heading of such section is amended 
    to read as follows:
``Sec. 992. Financial literacy training: financial services''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 50 of such title is amended by striking the item related 
    to section 992 and inserting the following new item:

``992. Financial literacy training: financial services.''.

    (f) Implementations.--Not later than six months after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the military department 
concerned and the Secretary of the Department in which the Coast Guard 
is operating shall commence providing financial literacy training under 
section 992 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by subsections 
(b), (c), and (d) of this section, to members of the Armed Forces.
    SEC. 662. RECORDATION OF OBLIGATIONS FOR INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS OF 
      INCENTIVE PAYS, ALLOWANCES, AND SIMILAR BENEFITS WHEN PAYMENT IS 
      DUE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 19 of title 37, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1015. Recordation of installment payment obligations for 
    incentive pays and similar benefits
    ``(a) In General.--In the case of any pay, allowance, bonus, or 
other benefit described in subsection (b) that is paid to a member of 
the uniformed services on an installment basis, each installment 
payment shall be charged to appropriations that are available for 
obligation at the time such payment is payable.
    ``(b) Covered Pay and Benefits.--Subsection (a) applies to any 
incentive pay, special pay, or bonus, or similar periodic payment of 
pay or allowances, or of educational benefits or stipends, that is paid 
to a member of the uniformed services under this title or title 10.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 19 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``1015. Recordation of installment payment obligations for incentive 
          pays and similar benefits.''.

                   TITLE VII--HEALTH CARE PROVISIONS

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

Sec. 701. Access to TRICARE Prime for certain beneficiaries.
Sec. 702. Modifications of cost-sharing for the TRICARE pharmacy 
          benefits program.
Sec. 703. Expansion of continued health benefits coverage to include 
          discharged and released members of the Selected Reserve.
Sec. 704. Access to health care under the TRICARE program for 
          beneficiaries of TRICARE Prime.
Sec. 705. Expansion of reimbursement for smoking cessation services for 
          certain TRICARE beneficiaries.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

Sec. 711. Waiver of recoupment of erroneous payments caused by 
          administrative error under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 712. Publication of data on patient safety, quality of care, 
          satisfaction, and health outcome measures under the TRICARE 
          program.
Sec. 713. Expansion of evaluation of effectiveness of the TRICARE 
          program to include information on patient safety, quality of 
          care, and access to care at military medical treatment 
          facilities.
Sec. 714. Portability of health plans under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 715. Joint uniform formulary for transition of care.
Sec. 716. Licensure of mental health professionals in TRICARE program.
Sec. 717. Designation of certain non-Department mental health care 
          providers with knowledge relating to treatment of members of 
          the Armed Forces.
Sec. 718. Comprehensive standards and access to contraception counseling 
          for members of the Armed Forces.

                  Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

Sec. 721. Provision of transportation of dependent patients relating to 
          obstetrical anesthesia services.
Sec. 722. Extension of authority for DOD-VA Health Care Sharing 
          Incentive Fund.
Sec. 723. Extension of authority for joint Department of Defense-
          Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration 
          Fund.
Sec. 724. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the 
          Secretary of Defense.
Sec. 725. Pilot program on urgent care under TRICARE program.
Sec. 726. Pilot program on incentive programs to improve health care 
          provided under the TRICARE program.
Sec. 727. Limitation on availability of funds for Department of Defense 
          Healthcare Management Systems Modernization.
Sec. 728. Submittal of information to Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
          relating to exposure to airborne hazards and open burn pits.
Sec. 729. Plan for development of procedures to measure data on mental 
          health care provided by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 730. Report on plans to improve experience with and eliminate 
          performance variability of health care provided by the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 731. Comptroller General study on gambling and problem gambling 
          behavior among members of the Armed Forces.

           Subtitle A--TRICARE and Other Health Care Benefits

    SEC. 701. ACCESS TO TRICARE PRIME FOR CERTAIN BENEFICIARIES.
    Section 732(c)(3) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 1097a note) is amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) Residence at time of election.--
            ``(A) Except as provided by subparagraph (B), an affected 
        eligible beneficiary may not make the one-time election under 
        paragraph (1) if, at the time of such election, the beneficiary 
        does not reside--
                ``(i) in a ZIP code that is in a region described in 
            subsection (d)(1)(B); and
                ``(ii) within 100 miles of a military medical treatment 
            facility.
            ``(B) Subparagraph (A)(ii) shall not apply with respect to 
        an affected eligible beneficiary who--
                ``(i) as of December 25, 2013, resides farther than 100 
            miles from a military medical treatment facility; and
                ``(ii) is such an eligible beneficiary by reason of 
            service in the Army, Navy, Air Force, or Marine Corps.''.
    SEC. 702. MODIFICATIONS OF COST-SHARING FOR THE TRICARE PHARMACY 
      BENEFITS PROGRAM.
    (a) Modification of Cost-sharing Amounts.--Subparagraph (A) of 
section 1074g(a)(6) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in clause (i)--
            (A) in subclause (I), by striking ``$8'' and inserting 
        ``$10''; and
            (B) in subclause (II), by striking ``$20'' and inserting 
        ``$24''; and
        (2) in clause (ii)--
            (A) in subclause (II), by striking ``$16'' and inserting 
        ``$20''; and
            (B) in subclause (III), by striking ``$46'' and inserting 
        ``$49''.
    (b) Modification of COLA Increase.--Subparagraph (C) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) in clause (i), by striking ``Beginning October 1, 2013,'' 
    and inserting ``Beginning October 1, 2016,''; and
        (2) by striking clause (ii) and inserting the following new 
    clause (ii):
    ``(ii) The amount of the increase otherwise provided for a year by 
clause (i) shall be computed as follows:
        ``(I) If the amount of the increase is equal to or greater than 
    50 cents, the amount of the increase shall be rounded to the 
    nearest multiple of $1.
        ``(II) If the amount of the increase is less than 50 cents, the 
    increase shall not be made for such year, but shall be carried over 
    to, and accumulated with, the amount of the increase for the 
    subsequent year or years and made when the aggregate amount of 
    increases under this clause for a year is equal to or greater than 
    50 cents.''.
    SEC. 703. EXPANSION OF CONTINUED HEALTH BENEFITS COVERAGE TO 
      INCLUDE DISCHARGED AND RELEASED MEMBERS OF THE SELECTED RESERVE.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (b) of section 1078a of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs 
    (3) through (5), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) A member of the Selected Reserve of the Ready Reserve of 
    a reserve component of the armed forces who--
            ``(A) is discharged or released from service in the 
        Selected Reserve, whether voluntarily or involuntarily, under 
        other than adverse conditions, as characterized by the 
        Secretary concerned;
            ``(B) immediately preceding that discharge or release, is 
        enrolled in TRICARE Reserve Select; and
            ``(C) after that discharge or release, would not otherwise 
        be eligible for any benefits under this chapter.''.
    (b) Notification of Eligibility.--Subsection (c)(2) of such section 
is amended by inserting ``or subsection (b)(2)'' after ``subsection 
(b)(1)''.
    (c) Election of Coverage.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (4) as paragraphs 
    (3) through (5), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) In the case of a member described in subsection (b)(2), 
    the written election shall be submitted to the Secretary concerned 
    before the end of the 60-day period beginning on the later of--
            ``(A) the date of the discharge or release of the member 
        from service in the Selected Reserve; and
            ``(B) the date the member receives the notification 
        required pursuant to subsection (c).''.
    (d) Coverage of Dependents.--Subsection (e) of such section is 
amended by inserting ``or subsection (b)(2)'' after ``subsection 
(b)(1)''.
    (e) Period of Continued Coverage.--Subsection (g)(1) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) through (D) as 
    subparagraphs (C) through (E); and
        (2) by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following new 
    subparagraph (B):
        ``(B) in the case of a member described in subsection (b)(2), 
    the date which is 18 months after the date the member ceases to be 
    eligible to enroll in TRICARE Reserve Select;''.
    (f) TRICARE Reserve Select Defined.--Such section is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) TRICARE Reserve Select Defined.--In this section, the term 
`TRICARE Reserve Select' means TRICARE Standard coverage provided under 
section 1076d of this title.''.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (c)--
            (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``subsection (b)(2)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (b)(3)''; and
            (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``subsection (b)(3)'' and 
        inserting ``subsection (b)(4)'';
        (2) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (3), as redesignated by subsection (c)(1), 
        by striking ``subsection (b)(2)'' and inserting ``subsection 
        (b)(3)'';
            (B) in paragraph (4), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``subsection (b)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)(4)''; and
            (C) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``subsection (b)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)(5)'';
        (3) in subsection (e), by striking ``subsection (b)(2) or 
    subsection (b)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection (b)(3) or subsection 
    (b)(4)''; and
        (4) in subsection (g)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)--
                (i) in subparagraph (C), as redesignated by subsection 
            (e)(1), by striking ``subsection (b)(2)'' and inserting 
            ``subsection (b)(3)'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated, by 
            striking ``subsection (b)(3)'' and inserting ``subsection 
            (b)(4)''; and
                (iii) in subparagraph (E), as so redesignated, by 
            striking ``subsection (b)(4)'' and inserting ``subsection 
            (b)(5)'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by striking ``paragraph (1)(B)'' and inserting 
            ``paragraph (1)(C)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``subsection (b)(2)'' and inserting 
            ``subsection (b)(3)''; and
            (C) in paragraph (3)--
                (i) by striking ``paragraph (1)(C)'' and inserting 
            ``paragraph (1)(D)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``subsection (b)(3)'' and inserting 
            ``subsection (b)(4)''.
    SEC. 704. ACCESS TO HEALTH CARE UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM FOR 
      BENEFICIARIES OF TRICARE PRIME.
    (a) Access to Health Care.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure 
that beneficiaries under TRICARE Prime who are seeking an appointment 
for health care under TRICARE Prime shall obtain such an appointment 
within the health care access standards established under subsection 
(b), including through the use of health care providers in the 
preferred provider network of TRICARE Prime.
    (b) Standards for Access to Care.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish health care 
    access standards for the receipt of health care under TRICARE 
    Prime, whether received at military medical treatment facilities or 
    from health care providers in the preferred provider network of 
    TRICARE Prime.
        (2) Categories of care.--The health care access standards 
    established under paragraph (1) shall include standards with 
    respect to the following categories of health care:
            (A) Primary care, including pediatric care, maternity care, 
        gynecological care, and other subcategories of primary care.
            (B) Specialty care, including behavioral health care and 
        other subcategories of specialty care.
        (3) Modifications.--The Secretary may modify the health care 
    access standards established under paragraph (1) whenever the 
    Secretary considers the modification of such standards appropriate.
        (4) Publication.--The Secretary shall publish the health care 
    access standards established under paragraph (1), and any 
    modifications to such standards, in the Federal Register and on a 
    publicly accessible Internet website of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) TRICARE prime.--The term ``TRICARE Prime'' means the 
    managed care option of the TRICARE program.
        (2) TRICARE program.--The term ``TRICARE program'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 1072(7) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
    SEC. 705. EXPANSION OF REIMBURSEMENT FOR SMOKING CESSATION SERVICES 
      FOR CERTAIN TRICARE BENEFICIARIES.
    Section 713(f) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4503; 10 U.S.C. 
1074 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``during fiscal year 
    2009'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)(B), by striking ``during such fiscal 
    year''; and
        (3) in paragraph (2), by striking ``during fiscal year 2009'' 
    and inserting ``after September 30, 2008''.

                 Subtitle B--Health Care Administration

    SEC. 711. WAIVER OF RECOUPMENT OF ERRONEOUS PAYMENTS CAUSED BY 
      ADMINISTRATIVE ERROR UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 55 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by inserting after section 1095f the following new section:
``Sec. 1095g. TRICARE program: waiver of recoupment of erroneous 
     payments caused by administrative error
    ``(a) Waiver of Recoupment.--The Secretary of Defense may waive 
recoupment from an individual who has benefitted from an erroneous 
TRICARE payment in a case in which each of the following applies:
        ``(1) The payment was made because of an administrative error 
    by an employee of the Department of Defense or a contractor under 
    the TRICARE program.
        ``(2) The individual (or in the case of a minor, the parent or 
    guardian of the individual) had a good faith, reasonable belief 
    that the individual was entitled to the benefit of such payment 
    under this chapter.
        ``(3) The individual relied on the expectation of such 
    entitlement.
        ``(4) The Secretary determines that a waiver of recoupment of 
    such payment is necessary to prevent an injustice.
    ``(b) Responsibility of Contractor.--In any case in which the 
Secretary waives recoupment under subsection (a) and the administrative 
error was on the part of a contractor under the TRICARE program, the 
Secretary shall, consistent with the requirements and procedures of the 
applicable contract, impose financial responsibility on the contractor 
for the erroneous payment.
    ``(c) Finality of Determinations.--Any determination by the 
Secretary under this section to waive or decline to waive recoupment 
under subsection (a) is a final determination and shall not be subject 
to appeal or judicial review.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 55 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 1095f the following new item:

``1095g. TRICARE program: waiver of recoupment of erroneous payments 
          caused by administrative error.''.
    SEC. 712. PUBLICATION OF DATA ON PATIENT SAFETY, QUALITY OF CARE, 
      SATISFACTION, AND HEALTH OUTCOME MEASURES UNDER THE TRICARE 
      PROGRAM.
    Section 1073b of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
    ``(c) Publication of Data on Patient Safety, Quality of Care, 
Satisfaction, and Health Outcome Measures.--(1) Not later than 180 days 
after the date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2016, the Secretary of Defense shall publish on a 
publically available Internet website of the Department of Defense data 
on all measures that the Secretary considers appropriate that are used 
by the Department to assess patient safety, quality of care, patient 
satisfaction, and health outcomes for health care provided under the 
TRICARE program at each military medical treatment facility.
    ``(2) The Secretary shall publish an update to the data published 
under paragraph (1) not less frequently than once each quarter during 
each fiscal year.
    ``(3) The Secretary may not include data relating to risk 
management activities of the Department in any publication under 
paragraph (1) or update under paragraph (2).
    ``(4) The Secretary shall ensure that the data published under 
paragraph (1) and updated under paragraph (2) is accessible to the 
public through the primary Internet website of the Department and the 
primary Internet website of the military medical treatment facility 
with respect to which such data applies.''.
    SEC. 713. EXPANSION OF EVALUATION OF EFFECTIVENESS OF THE TRICARE 
      PROGRAM TO INCLUDE INFORMATION ON PATIENT SAFETY, QUALITY OF 
      CARE, AND ACCESS TO CARE AT MILITARY MEDICAL TREATMENT 
      FACILITIES.
    Section 717(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 1996 (Public Law 104-106; 10 U.S.C. 1073 note)) is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), in the second 
    sentence, by striking ``address'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by inserting ``address'' before ``the impact of''; and
            (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a semicolon;
        (3) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) address patient safety, quality of care, and access to 
    care at military medical treatment facilities, including--
            ``(A) an identification of the number of practitioners 
        providing health care in military medical treatment facilities 
        that were reported to the National Practitioner Data Bank 
        during the year preceding the evaluation; and
            ``(B) with respect to each military medical treatment 
        facility, an assessment of--
                ``(i) the current accreditation status of such 
            facility, including any recommendations for corrective 
            action made by the relevant accrediting body;
                ``(ii) any policies or procedures implemented during 
            such year by the Secretary of the military department 
            concerned that were designed to improve patient safety, 
            quality of care, and access to care at such facility;
                ``(iii) data on surgical and maternity care outcomes 
            during such year;
                ``(iv) data on appointment wait times during such year; 
            and
                ``(v) data on patient safety, quality of care, and 
            access to care as compared to standards established by the 
            Department of Defense with respect to patient safety, 
            quality of care, and access to care.''.
    SEC. 714. PORTABILITY OF HEALTH PLANS UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) Health Plan Portability.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that 
    covered beneficiaries under the TRICARE program who are covered 
    under a health plan under such program are able to seamlessly 
    access health care under such health plan in each TRICARE program 
    region.
        (2) Regulations.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe regulations to 
    carry out paragraph (1).
    (b) Mechanisms To Ensure Portability.--In carrying out subsection 
(a), the Secretary shall--
        (1) establish a process for electronic notification of 
    contractors responsible for administering the TRICARE program in 
    each TRICARE region when any covered beneficiary intends to 
    relocate between such regions;
        (2) provide for the automatic electronic transfer between such 
    contractors of information relating to covered beneficiaries who 
    are relocating between such regions, including demographic, 
    enrollment, and claims information; and
        (3) ensure each such covered beneficiary is able to obtain a 
    new primary health care provider within ten days of--
            (A) arriving at the location to which the covered 
        beneficiary has relocated; and
            (B) initiating a request for a new primary health care 
        provider.
    (c) Publication.--The Secretary shall--
        (1) publish information on any modifications made pursuant to 
    subsection (a) with respect to the ability of covered beneficiaries 
    under the TRICARE program who are covered under a health plan under 
    such program to access health care in each TRICARE region on the 
    primary Internet website of the Department that is available to the 
    public; and
        (2) ensure that such information is made available on the 
    primary Internet website that is available to the public of each 
    current contractor responsible for administering the TRICARE 
    program.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given such terms 
in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 715. JOINT UNIFORM FORMULARY FOR TRANSITION OF CARE.
    (a) Joint Formulary.--Not later than June 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall jointly establish a 
joint uniform formulary for the Department of Veterans Affairs and the 
Department of Defense with respect to pharmaceutical agents that are 
critical for the transition of an individual from receiving treatment 
furnished by the Secretary of Defense to treatment furnished by the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
    (b) Selection.--The Secretaries shall select for inclusion on the 
joint uniform formulary established under subsection (a) pharmaceutical 
agents relating to--
        (1) the control of pain, sleep disorders, and psychiatric 
    conditions, including post-traumatic stress disorder; and
        (2) any other conditions determined appropriate by the 
    Secretaries.
    (c) Report.--Not later than July 1, 2016, the Secretaries shall 
jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
the joint uniform formulary established under subsection (a), including 
a list of the pharmaceutical agents selected for inclusion on the 
formulary.
    (d) Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to 
prohibit the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs 
from each maintaining the respective uniform formularies of the 
Department of the Secretary.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committees on Veterans' Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Senate.
        (2) The term ``pharmaceutical agent'' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 1074g(g) of title 10, United States Code.
    (f) Conforming Amendment.--Section 1074g(a)(2)(A) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
sentence: ``With respect to members of the uniformed services, such 
uniform formulary shall include pharmaceutical agents on the joint 
uniform formulary established under section 715 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.''.
    SEC. 716. LICENSURE OF MENTAL HEALTH PROFESSIONALS IN TRICARE 
      PROGRAM.
    (a) Qualifications for TRICARE Certified Mental Health Counselors 
During Transition Period.--During the period preceding January 1, 2021, 
for purposes of determining whether a mental health care professional 
is eligible for reimbursement under the TRICARE program as a TRICARE 
certified mental health counselor, an individual who holds a masters 
degree or doctoral degree in counseling from a program that is 
accredited by a covered institution shall be treated as holding such 
degree from a mental health counseling program or clinical mental 
health counseling program that is accredited by the Council for 
Accreditation of Counseling and Related Educational Programs.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered institution'' means any of the 
    following:
            (A) The Accrediting Commission for Community and Junior 
        Colleges Western Association of Schools and Colleges (ACCJC-
        WASC).
            (B) The Higher Learning Commission (HLC).
            (C) The Middle States Commission on Higher Education 
        (MSCHE).
            (D) The New England Association of Schools and Colleges 
        Commission on Institutions of Higher Education (NEASC-CIHE).
            (E) The Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) 
        Commission on Colleges.
            (F) The WASC Senior College and University Commission 
        (WASC-SCUC).
            (G) The Accrediting Bureau of Health Education Schools 
        (ABHES).
            (H) The Accrediting Commission of Career Schools and 
        Colleges (ACCSC).
            (I) The Accrediting Council for Independent Colleges and 
        Schools (ACICS).
            (J) The Distance Education Accreditation Commission (DEAC).
        (2) The term ``TRICARE program'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 717. DESIGNATION OF CERTAIN NON-DEPARTMENT MENTAL HEALTH CARE 
      PROVIDERS WITH KNOWLEDGE RELATING TO TREATMENT OF MEMBERS OF THE 
      ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Mental Health Provider Readiness Designation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop a 
    system by which any non-Department mental health care provider that 
    meets eligibility criteria established by the Secretary relating to 
    the knowledge described in paragraph (2) receives a mental health 
    provider readiness designation from the Department of Defense.
        (2) Knowledge described.--The knowledge described in this 
    paragraph is the following:
            (A) Knowledge and understanding with respect to the culture 
        of members of the Armed Forces and family members and 
        caregivers of members of the Armed Forces.
            (B) Knowledge with respect to evidence-based treatments 
        that have been approved by the Department for the treatment of 
        mental health issues among members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Availability of Information on Designation.--
        (1) Registry.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish and 
    update as necessary a publically available registry of all non-
    Department mental health care providers that are currently 
    designated under subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Provider list.--The Secretary shall update all lists 
    maintained by the Secretary of non-Department mental health care 
    providers that provide mental health care under the laws 
    administered by the Secretary by indicating the providers that are 
    currently designated under subsection (a)(1).
    (c) Non-Department Mental Health Care Provider Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``non-Department mental health care provider''--
        (1) means a health care provider who--
            (A) specializes in mental health;
            (B) is not a health care provider of the Department of 
        Defense at a facility of the Department; and
            (C) provides health care to members of the Armed Forces; 
        and
        (2) includes psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nurses, 
    social workers, mental health counselors, marriage and family 
    therapists, and other mental health care providers designated by 
    the Secretary of Defense.
    SEC. 718. COMPREHENSIVE STANDARDS AND ACCESS TO CONTRACEPTION 
      COUNSELING FOR MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Clinical Practice Guidelines.--
        (1) Establishment.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish 
    clinical practice guidelines for health care providers employed by 
    the Department of Defense on standards of care with respect to 
    methods of contraception and counseling on methods of contraception 
    for members of the Armed Forces.
        (2) Updates.--The Secretary shall from time to time update the 
    clinical practice guidelines established under paragraph (1) to 
    incorporate into such guidelines new or updated standards of care 
    with respect to methods of contraception and counseling on methods 
    of contraception.
    (b) Dissemination.--
        (1) Initial dissemination.--As soon as practicable, but 
    commencing not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
    of this Act, the Secretary shall provide for rapid dissemination of 
    the clinical practice guidelines to health care providers described 
    in subsection (a)(1).
        (2) Dissemination of updates.--As soon as practicable after 
    each update to the clinical practice guidelines made by the 
    Secretary pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (a), the 
    Secretary shall provide for the rapid dissemination of such updated 
    clinical practice guidelines to health care providers described in 
    paragraph (1) of such subsection.
        (3) Protocols.--The Secretary shall disseminate the clinical 
    practice guidelines under paragraph (1) and any updates to such 
    guidelines under paragraph (2) in accordance with administrative 
    protocols developed by the Secretary for such purpose.
    (c) Access to Contraception Counseling.--As soon as practicable 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall ensure 
that women members of the Armed Forces have access to comprehensive 
counseling on the full range of methods of contraception provided by 
health care providers described in subsection (a)(1) during health care 
visits, including visits as follows:
        (1) During predeployment health care visits, including 
    counseling that provides specific information women need regarding 
    the interaction between anticipated deployment conditions and 
    various methods of contraception.
        (2) During health care visits during deployment.
        (3) During annual physical examinations.

                 Subtitle C--Reports and Other Matters

    SEC. 721. PROVISION OF TRANSPORTATION OF DEPENDENT PATIENTS 
      RELATING TO OBSTETRICAL ANESTHESIA SERVICES.
    Section 1040(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subparagraph (F).
    SEC. 722. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR DOD-VA HEALTH CARE SHARING 
      INCENTIVE FUND.
    Section 8111(d)(3) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting ``September 30, 2020''.
    SEC. 723. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR JOINT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE-
      DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
      FUND.
    Section 1704(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2573), as amended by 
section 722 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), is 
further amended by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting 
``September 30, 2017''.
    SEC. 724. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR OFFICE OF THE 
      SECRETARY OF DEFENSE.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense, not more than 75 percent may be obligated or expended until 
the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits to the congressional 
defense committees the report required by section 713(a)(2) of the Carl 
Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3414).
    SEC. 725. PILOT PROGRAM ON URGENT CARE UNDER TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) Pilot Program.--
        (1) In general.--Commencing not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    carry out a pilot program to allow a covered beneficiary under the 
    TRICARE program access to urgent care visits without the need for 
    preauthorization for such visits.
        (2) Duration.--The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
    for a period of three years.
        (3) Incorporation of nurse advice line.--The Secretary shall 
    incorporate the nurse advise line of the Department into the pilot 
    program to direct covered beneficiaries seeking access to care to 
    the source of the most appropriate level of health care required to 
    treat the medical conditions of the beneficiaries, including urgent 
    care under the pilot program.
    (b) Publication.--The Secretary shall--
        (1) publish information on the pilot program under subsection 
    (a) for the receipt of urgent care under the TRICARE program--
            (A) on the primary publically available Internet website of 
        the Department; and
            (B) on the primary publically available Internet website of 
        each military medical treatment facility; and
        (2) ensure that such information is made available on the 
    primary publically available Internet website of each current 
    managed care contractor that has established a health care provider 
    network under the TRICARE program.
    (c) Reports.--
        (1) First report.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than one year after the date on 
        which the pilot program under subsection (a) commences, the 
        Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of 
        the House of Representatives and the Senate a report on the 
        pilot program.
            (B) Elements.--The report under subparagraph (1) shall 
        include the following:
                (i) An analysis of urgent care use by covered 
            beneficiaries in military medical treatment facilities and 
            the TRICARE purchased care provider network.
                (ii) A comparison of urgent care use by covered 
            beneficiaries to the use by covered beneficiaries of 
            emergency departments in military medical treatment 
            facilities and the TRICARE purchased care provider network, 
            including an analysis of whether the pilot program 
            decreases the inappropriate use of medical care in 
            emergency departments.
                (iii) A determination of the extent to which the nurse 
            advice line of the Department affected both urgent care and 
            emergency department use by covered beneficiaries in 
            military medical treatment facilities and the TRICARE 
            purchased care provider network.
                (iv) An analysis of any cost savings to the Department 
            realized through the pilot program.
                (v) A determination of the optimum number of urgent 
            care visits available to covered beneficiaries without 
            preauthorization.
                (vi) An analysis of the satisfaction of covered 
            beneficiaries with the pilot program.
        (2) Second report.--Not later than two years after the date on 
    which the pilot program commences, the Secretary shall submit to 
    the committees specified in paragraph (1)(A) an update to the 
    report required by such paragraph, including any recommendations of 
    the Secretary with respect to extending or making permanent the 
    pilot program and a description of any related legislative actions 
    that the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (3) Final report.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
    which the pilot program is completed, the Secretary shall submit to 
    the committees specified in paragraph (1)(A) a final report on the 
    pilot program that updates the report required by paragraph (2).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meaning given such terms 
in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 726. PILOT PROGRAM ON INCENTIVE PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE HEALTH 
      CARE PROVIDED UNDER THE TRICARE PROGRAM.
    (a) Pilot Program.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall commence the 
conduct of a pilot program under section 1092 of title 10, United 
States Code, to assess whether a reduction in the rate of increase in 
health care spending by the Department of Defense and an enhancement of 
the operation of the military health system may be achieved by 
developing and implementing value-based incentive programs to encourage 
health care providers under the TRICARE program (including physicians, 
hospitals, and others involved in providing health care to patients) to 
improve the following:
        (1) The quality of health care provided to covered 
    beneficiaries under the TRICARE program.
        (2) The experience of covered beneficiaries in receiving health 
    care under the TRICARE program.
        (3) The health of covered beneficiaries.
    (b) Incentive Programs.--
        (1) Development.--In developing an incentive program under this 
    section, the Secretary shall--
            (A) consider the characteristics of the population of 
        covered beneficiaries affected by the incentive program;
            (B) consider how the incentive program would impact the 
        receipt of health care under the TRICARE program by such 
        covered beneficiaries;
            (C) establish or maintain an assurance that such covered 
        beneficiaries will have timely access to health care during 
        operation of the incentive program;
            (D) ensure that there are no additional financial costs to 
        such covered beneficiaries of implementing the incentive 
        program; and
            (E) consider such other factors as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
        (2) Elements.--With respect to an incentive program developed 
    and implemented under this section, the Secretary shall ensure 
    that--
            (A) the size, scope, and duration of the incentive program 
        is reasonable in relation to the purpose of the incentive 
        program; and
            (B) appropriate criteria and data collection are used to 
        ensure adequate evaluation of the feasibility and advisability 
        of implementing the incentive program throughout the TRICARE 
        program.
        (3) Use of existing models.--In developing an incentive program 
    under this section, the Secretary may adapt a value-based incentive 
    program conducted by the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services 
    or any other governmental or commercial health care program.
    (c) Termination.--The authority of the Secretary to carry out the 
pilot program under this section shall terminate on December 31, 2019.
    (d) Reports.--
        (1) Interim report.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, and not less frequently than once each 
    year thereafter until the termination of the pilot program, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report on the pilot program.
        (2) Final report.--Not later than September 30, 2019, the 
    Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    final report on the pilot program.
        (3) Elements.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) or 
    paragraph (2) shall include the following:
            (A) An assessment of each incentive program developed and 
        implemented under this section, including whether such 
        incentive program--
                (i) improves the quality of health care provided to 
            covered beneficiaries, the experience of covered 
            beneficiaries in receiving health care under the TRICARE 
            program, or the health of covered beneficiaries;
                (ii) reduces the rate of increase in health care 
            spending by the Department of Defense; or
                (iii) enhances the operation of the military health 
            system.
            (B) Such recommendations for administrative or legislative 
        action as the Secretary considers appropriate in light of the 
        pilot program, including to implement any such incentive 
        program or programs throughout the TRICARE program.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``covered 
beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' have the meanings given those 
terms in section 1072 of title 10, United States Code.
    SEC. 727. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DEPARTMENT OF 
      DEFENSE HEALTHCARE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS MODERNIZATION.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense 
Healthcare Management Systems Modernization, not more than 75 percent 
may be obligated or expended until the date on which the Secretary of 
Defense makes the certification required by section 713(g)(2) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
113-66; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note).
    SEC. 728. SUBMITTAL OF INFORMATION TO SECRETARY OF VETERANS AFFAIRS 
      RELATING TO EXPOSURE TO AIRBORNE HAZARDS AND OPEN BURN PITS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and periodically thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs such 
information in the possession of the Secretary of Defense as the 
Secretary of Veterans Affairs considers necessary to supplement and 
support--
        (1) the development of information to be included in the 
    Airborne Hazards and Open Burn Pit Registry established by the 
    Department of Veterans Affairs under section 201 of the Dignified 
    Burial and Other Veterans' Benefits Improvement Act of 2012 (Public 
    Law 112-260; 38 U.S.C. 527 note); and
        (2) research and development activities conducted by the 
    Department of Veterans Affairs to explore the potential health 
    risks of exposure by members of the Armed Forces to environmental 
    factors in Iraq and Afghanistan, in particular the connection of 
    such exposure to respiratory illnesses such as chronic cough, 
    chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, constrictive bronchiolitis, 
    and pulmonary fibrosis.
    (b) Inclusion of Certain Information.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall include in the information submitted to the Secretary of Veterans 
Affairs under subsection (a) information on any research and 
surveillance efforts conducted by the Department of Defense to evaluate 
the incidence and prevalence of respiratory illnesses among members of 
the Armed Forces who were exposed to open burn pits while deployed 
overseas.
    SEC. 729. PLAN FOR DEVELOPMENT OF PROCEDURES TO MEASURE DATA ON 
      MENTAL HEALTH CARE PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed 
Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a plan for the 
Department of Defense to develop procedures to compile and assess data 
relating to the following:
        (1) Outcomes for mental health care provided by the Department.
        (2) Variations in such outcomes among different medical 
    facilities of the Department.
        (3) Barriers, if any, to the implementation by mental health 
    care providers of the Department of the clinical practice 
    guidelines and other evidence-based treatments and approaches 
    recommended for such providers by the Secretary.
    SEC. 730. REPORT ON PLANS TO IMPROVE EXPERIENCE WITH AND ELIMINATE 
      PERFORMANCE VARIABILITY OF HEALTH CARE PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT 
      OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Comprehensive Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a comprehensive report setting forth the current 
    and future plans of the Secretary, with estimated dates of 
    completion, to carry out the following:
            (A) To improve the experience of beneficiaries with health 
        care provided in military medical treatment facilities and 
        through purchased care.
            (B) To eliminate performance variability with respect to 
        the provision of such health care.
        (2) Elements.--The comprehensive report under paragraph (1) 
    shall include the plans of the Secretary of Defense, in 
    consultation with the Secretaries of the military departments, as 
    follows:
            (A) To align performance measures for health care provided 
        in military medical treatment facilities with performance 
        measures for health care provided through purchased care.
            (B) To improve performance in the provision of health care 
        by the Department of Defense by eliminating performance 
        variability with respect to the provision of health care in 
        military medical treatment facilities and through purchased 
        care.
            (C) To use innovative, high-technology services to improve 
        access to care, coordination of care, and the experience of 
        care in military medical treatment facilities and through 
        purchased care.
            (D) To collect and analyze data throughout the Department 
        with respect to health care provided in military medical 
        treatment facilities and through purchased care to improve the 
        quality of such care, patient safety, and patient satisfaction.
            (E) To develop a performance management system, including 
        by adoption of common measures for access to care, quality of 
        care, safety, and patient satisfaction, that holds medical 
        leadership throughout the Department accountable for sustained 
        improvement of performance.
            (F) To use such other methods as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate to improve the experience of beneficiaries with and 
        eliminate performance variability with respect to health care 
        received from the Department.
    (b) Comptroller General Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the submission 
    of the comprehensive report required by subsection (a)(1), the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of 
    Representatives a report on the plans of the Secretary of Defense 
    set forth in the comprehensive report submitted under such 
    subsection.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) An assessment of whether the plans included in the 
        comprehensive report submitted under subsection (a) will, with 
        respect to members of the Armed Forces and covered 
        beneficiaries under the TRICARE program--
                (i) improve health outcomes;
                (ii) create consistent health value; and
                (iii) ensure that such individuals receive quality 
            health care in all military medical treatment facilities 
            and through purchased care.
            (B) An assessment of whether such plans can be achieved 
        within the estimated dates of completion set forth by the 
        Department under such subsection.
            (C) An assessment of whether any such plan would require 
        legislation for the implementation of such plan.
            (D) An assessment of whether the Department of Defense has 
        adequately budgeted amounts to fund the carrying out of such 
        plans.
            (E) Metrics that can be used to evaluate the performance of 
        such plans.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``purchased care'' means health care provided 
    pursuant to a contract entered into under the TRICARE program.
        (2) The terms ``covered beneficiary'' and ``TRICARE program'' 
    have the meaning given such terms in section 1072 of title 10, 
    United States Code.
    SEC. 731. COMPTROLLER GENERAL STUDY ON GAMBLING AND PROBLEM 
      GAMBLING BEHAVIOR AMONG MEMBERS OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study on gambling among members of the Armed Forces.
    (b) Matters Included.--The study conducted under subsection (a) 
shall include the following:
        (1) With respect to gaming facilities at military 
    installations, disaggregated by each military department, the 
    number, type, and location of such gaming facilities.
        (2) An assessment of the prevalence of and particular risks for 
    problem gambling among members of the Armed Forces, including such 
    recommendations for policies and programs to be carried out by the 
    Department to address problem gambling as the Comptroller General 
    considers appropriate.
        (3) An assessment of the ability and capacity of military 
    health care personnel to adequately diagnose and provide dedicated 
    treatment for problem gambling, including--
            (A) a comparison of treatment programs of the Department 
        for alcohol abuse, illegal substance abuse, and tobacco 
        addiction with treatment programs of the Department for problem 
        gambling; and
            (B) an assessment of whether additional training for 
        military health care personnel on providing treatment for 
        problem gambling would be beneficial.
        (4) An assessment of the financial counseling and related 
    services that are available to members of the Armed Forces and 
    dependents of such members who are affected by problem gambling.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the results of the study 
conducted under subsection (a).

  TITLE VIII--ACQUISITION POLICY, ACQUISITION MANAGEMENT, AND RELATED 
                                MATTERS

              Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

Sec. 801. Required review of acquisition-related functions of the Chiefs 
          of Staff of the Armed Forces.
Sec. 802. Role of Chiefs of Staff in the acquisition process.
Sec. 803. Expansion of rapid acquisition authority.
Sec. 804. Middle tier of acquisition for rapid prototyping and rapid 
          fielding.
Sec. 805. Use of alternative acquisition paths to acquire critical 
          national security capabilities.
Sec. 806. Secretary of Defense waiver of acquisition laws to acquire 
          vital national security capabilities.
Sec. 807. Acquisition authority of the Commander of United States Cyber 
          Command.
Sec. 808. Report on linking and streamlining requirements, acquisition, 
          and budget processes within Armed Forces.
Sec. 809. Advisory panel on streamlining and codifying acquisition 
          regulations.
Sec. 810. Review of time-based requirements process and budgeting and 
          acquisition systems.

 Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                             and Limitations

Sec. 811. Amendment relating to multiyear contract authority for 
          acquisition of property.
Sec. 812. Applicability of cost and pricing data and certification 
          requirements.
Sec. 813. Rights in technical data.
Sec. 814. Procurement of supplies for experimental purposes.
Sec. 815. Amendments to other transaction authority.
Sec. 816. Amendment to acquisition threshold for special emergency 
          procurement authority.
Sec. 817. Revision of method of rounding when making inflation 
          adjustment of acquisition-related dollar thresholds.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

Sec. 821. Acquisition strategy required for each major defense 
          acquisition program, major automated information system, and 
          major system.
Sec. 822. Revision to requirements relating to risk management in 
          development of major defense acquisition programs and major 
          systems.
Sec. 823. Revision of Milestone A decision authority responsibilities 
          for major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 824. Revision of Milestone B decision authority responsibilities 
          for major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 825. Designation of milestone decision authority.
Sec. 826. Tenure and accountability of program managers for program 
          definition periods.
Sec. 827. Tenure and accountability of program managers for program 
          execution periods.
Sec. 828. Penalty for cost overruns.
Sec. 829. Streamlining of reporting requirements applicable to Assistant 
          Secretary of Defense for Research and Engineering regarding 
          major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 830. Configuration Steering Boards for cost control under major 
          defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 831. Repeal of requirement for stand-alone manpower estimates for 
          major defense acquisition programs.
Sec. 832. Revision to duties of the Deputy Assistant Secretary of 
          Defense for Developmental Test and Evaluation and the Deputy 
          Assistant Secretary of Defense for Systems Engineering.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

Sec. 841. Amendments to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
          Development Fund.
Sec. 842. Dual-track military professionals in operational and 
          acquisition specialities.
Sec. 843. Provision of joint duty assignment credit for acquisition 
          duty.
Sec. 844. Mandatory requirement for training related to the conduct of 
          market research.
Sec. 845. Independent study of implementation of defense acquisition 
          workforce improvement efforts.
Sec. 846. Extension of authority for the civilian acquisition workforce 
          personnel demonstration project.

           Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

Sec. 851. Procurement of commercial items.
Sec. 852. Modification to information required to be submitted by 
          offeror in procurement of major weapon systems as commercial 
          items.
Sec. 853. Use of recent prices paid by the Government in the 
          determination of price reasonableness.
Sec. 854. Report on defense-unique laws applicable to the procurement of 
          commercial items and commercially available off-the-shelf 
          items.
Sec. 855. Market research and preference for commercial items.
Sec. 856. Limitation on conversion of procurements from commercial 
          acquisition procedures.
Sec. 857. Treatment of goods and services provided by nontraditional 
          defense contractors as commercial items.

                   Subtitle F--Industrial Base Matters

Sec. 861. Amendment to Mentor-Protege Program.
Sec. 862. Amendments to data quality improvement plan.
Sec. 863. Notice of contract consolidation for acquisition strategies.
Sec. 864. Clarification of requirements related to small business 
          contracts for services.
Sec. 865. Certification requirements for Business Opportunity 
          Specialists, commercial market representatives, and 
          procurement center representatives.
Sec. 866. Modifications to requirements for qualified HUBZone small 
          business concerns located in a base closure area.
Sec. 867. Joint venturing and teaming.
Sec. 868. Modification to and scorecard program for small business 
          contracting goals.
Sec. 869. Establishment of an Office of Hearings and Appeals in the 
          Small Business Administration; petitions for reconsideration 
          of size standards.
Sec. 870. Additional duties of the Director of Small and Disadvantaged 
          Business Utilization.
Sec. 871. Including subcontracting goals in agency responsibilities.
Sec. 872. Reporting related to failure of contractors to meet goals 
          under negotiated comprehensive small business subcontracting 
          plans.
Sec. 873. Pilot program for streamlining awards for innovative 
          technology projects.
Sec. 874. Surety bond requirements and amount of guarantee.
Sec. 875. Review of Government access to intellectual property rights of 
          private sector firms.
Sec. 876. Inclusion in annual technology and industrial capability 
          assessments of a determination about defense acquisition 
          program requirements.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 881. Consideration of potential program cost increases and schedule 
          delays resulting from oversight of defense acquisition 
          programs.
Sec. 882. Examination and guidance relating to oversight and approval of 
          services contracts.
Sec. 883. Streamlining of requirements relating to defense business 
          systems.
Sec. 884. Procurement of personal protective equipment.
Sec. 885. Amendments concerning detection and avoidance of counterfeit 
          electronic parts.
Sec. 886. Exception for AbilityOne products from authority to acquire 
          goods and services manufactured in Afghanistan, Central Asian 
          States, and Djibouti.
Sec. 887. Effective communication between government and industry.
Sec. 888. Standards for procurement of secure information technology and 
          cyber security systems.
Sec. 889. Unified information technology services.
Sec. 890. Cloud strategy for Department of Defense.
Sec. 891. Development period for Department of Defense information 
          technology systems.
Sec. 892. Revisions to pilot program on acquisition of military purpose 
          nondevelopmental items.
Sec. 893. Improved auditing of contracts.
Sec. 894. Sense of Congress on evaluation method for procurement of 
          audit or audit readiness services.
Sec. 895. Mitigating potential unfair competitive advantage of technical 
          advisors to acquisition programs.
Sec. 896. Survey on the costs of regulatory compliance.
Sec. 897. Treatment of interagency and State and local purchases when 
          the Department of Defense acts as contract intermediary for 
          the General Services Administration.
Sec. 898. Competition for religious services contracts.
Sec. 899. Pilot program regarding risk-based contracting for smaller 
          contract actions under the Truth in Negotiations Act.

             Subtitle A--Acquisition Policy and Management

    SEC. 801. REQUIRED REVIEW OF ACQUISITION-RELATED FUNCTIONS OF THE 
      CHIEFS OF STAFF OF THE ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Review Required.--The Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of 
Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps shall conduct a review of their current 
individual authorities provided in sections 3033, 5033, 8033, and 5043 
of title 10, United States Code, and other relevant statutes and 
regulations related to defense acquisitions for the purpose of 
developing such recommendations as the Chief concerned or the 
Commandant considers necessary to further or advance the role of the 
Chief concerned or the Commandant in the development of requirements, 
acquisition processes, and the associated budget practices of the 
Department of Defense.
    (b) Reports.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Chief of Staff of 
the Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air 
Force, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps shall each submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report containing, at a minimum, the 
following:
        (1) The recommendations developed by the Chief concerned or the 
    Commandant under subsection (a) and other results of the review 
    conducted under such subsection.
        (2) The actions the Chief concerned or the Commandant is 
    taking, if any, within the Chief's or Commandant's existing 
    authority to implement such recommendations.
    SEC. 802. ROLE OF CHIEFS OF STAFF IN THE ACQUISITION PROCESS.
    (a) Chiefs of Staff as Customer of Acquisition Process.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 149 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2546 the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2546a. Customer-oriented acquisition system
    ``(a) Objective.--It shall be the objective of the defense 
acquisition system to meet the needs of its customers in the most cost-
effective manner practicable. The acquisition policies, directives, and 
regulations of the Department of Defense shall be modified as necessary 
to ensure the development and implementation of a customer-oriented 
acquisition system.
    ``(b) Customer.--The customer of the defense acquisition system is 
the armed force that will have primary responsibility for fielding the 
system or systems acquired. The customer is represented with regard to 
a major defense acquisition program by the Secretary of the military 
department concerned and the Chief of the armed force concerned.
    ``(c) Role of Customer.--The customer of a major defense 
acquisition program shall be responsible for balancing resources 
against priorities on the acquisition program and ensuring that 
appropriate trade-offs are made among cost, schedule, technical 
feasibility, and performance on a continuing basis throughout the life 
of the acquisition program.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 149 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 2546 the following new item:

``2546a. Customer-oriented acquisition system.''.

    (b) Responsibilities of Chiefs.--Section 2547(a) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (6) as paragraphs 
    (3) through (7), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(2) Decisions regarding the balancing of resources and 
    priorities, and associated trade-offs among cost, schedule, 
    technical feasibility, and performance on major defense acquisition 
    programs.''; and
        (3) in paragraph (6), as redesignated by paragraph (1) of this 
    subsection, by striking ``The development'' and inserting ``The 
    development and management''.
    (c) Responsibilities of Military Deputies.--Section 908(d) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Duties of Principal Military Deputies.--Each Principal 
Military Deputy to a service acquisition executive shall be responsible 
for--
        ``(1) keeping the Chief of Staff of the Armed Force concerned 
    informed of the progress of major defense acquisition programs;
        ``(2) informing the Chief of Staff on a continuing basis of any 
    developments on major defense acquisition programs, which may 
    require new or revisited trade-offs among cost, schedule, technical 
    feasibility, and performance, including--
            ``(A) significant cost growth or schedule slippage; and
            ``(B) requirements creep (as defined in section 2547(c)(1) 
        of title 10, United States Code); and
        ``(3) ensuring that the views of the Chief of Staff on cost, 
    schedule, technical feasibility, and performance trade-offs are 
    strongly considered by program managers and program executive 
    officers in all phases of the acquisition process.''.
    (d) Conforming Amendments.--
        (1) Joint requirements oversight council.--Section 181(d) of 
    title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new paragraph:
    ``(3) The Council shall seek, and strongly consider, the views of 
the Chiefs of Staff of the armed forces, in their roles as customers of 
the acquisition system, on matters pertaining to trade-offs among cost, 
schedule, technical feasibility, and performance under subsection 
(b)(1)(C) and the balancing of resources with priorities pursuant to 
subsection (b)(3).''.
        (2) Milestone a decisions.--The Chief of the Armed Force 
    concerned shall advise the milestone decision authority for a major 
    defense acquisition program of the Chief's views on cost, schedule, 
    technical feasibility, and performance trade-offs that have been 
    made with regard to the program, as provided in section 2366a(a)(2) 
    of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 823 of this 
    Act, prior to a Milestone A decision on the program.
        (3) Milestone b decisions.--The Chief of the Armed Force 
    concerned shall advise the milestone decision authority for a major 
    defense acquisition program of the Chief's views on cost, schedule, 
    technical feasibility, and performance trade-offs that have been 
    made with regard to the program, as provided in section 2366b(b)(3) 
    of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 824 of this 
    Act, prior to a Milestone B decision on the program.
        (4) Duties of chiefs.--
            (A) Section 3033(d)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``section 171'' and inserting ``sections 
        171 and 2547''.
            (B) Section 5033(d)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``section 171'' and inserting ``sections 
        171 and 2547''.
            (C) Section 5043(e)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``section 171'' and inserting ``sections 
        171 and 2547''.
            (D) Section 8033(d)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking ``section 171'' and inserting ``sections 
        171 and 2547''.
    SEC. 803. EXPANSION OF RAPID ACQUISITION AUTHORITY.
    Section 806(c) of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Response to Combat Emergencies and Certain Urgent Operational 
Needs.--
        ``(1) Determination of need for rapid acquisition and 
    deployment.--(A) In the case of any supplies and associated support 
    services that, as determined in writing by the Secretary of 
    Defense, are urgently needed to eliminate a documented deficiency 
    that has resulted in combat casualties, or is likely to result in 
    combat casualties, the Secretary may use the procedures developed 
    under this section in order to accomplish the rapid acquisition and 
    deployment of the needed supplies and associated support services.
        ``(B) In the case of any supplies and associated support 
    services that, as determined in writing by the Secretary of 
    Defense, are urgently needed to eliminate a documented deficiency 
    that impacts an ongoing or anticipated contingency operation and 
    that, if left unfulfilled, could potentially result in loss of life 
    or critical mission failure, the Secretary may use the procedures 
    developed under this section in order to accomplish the rapid 
    acquisition and deployment of the needed supplies and associated 
    support services.
        ``(C)(i) In the case of any supplies and associated support 
    services that, as determined in writing by the Secretary of Defense 
    without delegation, are urgently needed to eliminate a deficiency 
    that as the result of a cyber attack has resulted in critical 
    mission failure, the loss of life, property destruction, or 
    economic effects, or if left unfilled is likely to result in 
    critical mission failure, the loss of life, property destruction, 
    or economic effects, the Secretary may use the procedures developed 
    under this section in order to accomplish the rapid acquisition and 
    deployment of the needed offensive or defensive cyber capabilities, 
    supplies, and associated support services.
        ``(ii) In this subparagraph, the term `cyber attack' means a 
    deliberate action to alter, disrupt, deceive, degrade, or destroy 
    computer systems or networks or the information or programs 
    resident in or transiting these systems or networks.
        ``(2) Designation of senior official responsible.--(A) Whenever 
    the Secretary makes a determination under subparagraph (A), (B), or 
    (C) of paragraph (1) that certain supplies and associated support 
    services are urgently needed to eliminate a deficiency described in 
    that subparagraph, the Secretary shall designate a senior official 
    of the Department of Defense to ensure that the needed supplies and 
    associated support services are acquired and deployed as quickly as 
    possible, with a goal of awarding a contract for the acquisition of 
    the supplies and associated support services within 15 days.
        ``(B) Upon designation of a senior official under subparagraph 
    (A), the Secretary shall authorize that official to waive any 
    provision of law, policy, directive, or regulation described in 
    subsection (d) that such official determines in writing would 
    unnecessarily impede the rapid acquisition and deployment of the 
    needed supplies and associated support services. In a case in which 
    the needed supplies and associated support services cannot be 
    acquired without an extensive delay, the senior official shall 
    require that an interim solution be implemented and deployed using 
    the procedures developed under this section to minimize adverse 
    consequences resulting from the urgent need.
        ``(3) Use of funds.--(A) In any fiscal year in which the 
    Secretary makes a determination described in subparagraph (A), (B), 
    or (C) of paragraph (1), the Secretary may use any funds available 
    to the Department of Defense for acquisitions of supplies and 
    associated support services if the determination includes a written 
    finding that the use of such funds is necessary to address the 
    deficiency in a timely manner.
        ``(B) The authority of this section may only be used to acquire 
    supplies and associated support services--
            ``(i) in the case of determinations by the Secretary under 
        paragraph (1)(A), in an amount aggregating not more than 
        $200,000,000 during any fiscal year;
            ``(ii) in the case of determinations by the Secretary under 
        paragraph (1)(B), in an amount aggregating not more than 
        $200,000,000 during any fiscal year; and
            ``(iii) in the case of determinations by the Secretary 
        under paragraph (1)(C), in an amount aggregating not more than 
        $200,000,000 during any fiscal year.
        ``(4) Notification to congressional defense committees.--(A) In 
    the case of a determination by the Secretary under paragraph 
    (1)(A), the Secretary shall notify the congressional defense 
    committees of the determination within 15 days after the date of 
    the determination.
        ``(B) In the case of a determination by the Secretary under 
    paragraph (1)(B) the Secretary shall notify the congressional 
    defense committees of the determination at least 10 days before the 
    date on which the determination is effective.
        ``(C) A notice under this paragraph shall include the 
    following:
            ``(i) The supplies and associated support services to be 
        acquired.
            ``(ii) The amount anticipated to be expended for the 
        acquisition.
            ``(iii) The source of funds for the acquisition.
        ``(D) A notice under this paragraph shall be sufficient to 
    fulfill any requirement to provide notification to Congress for a 
    new start program.
        ``(E) A notice under this paragraph shall be provided in 
    consultation with the Director of the Office of Management and 
    Budget.
        ``(5) Time for transitioning to normal acquisition system.--Any 
    acquisition initiated under this subsection shall transition to the 
    normal acquisition system not later than two years after the date 
    on which the Secretary makes the determination described in 
    paragraph (1) with respect to the supplies and associated support 
    services concerned.
        ``(6) Limitation on officers with authority to make a 
    determination.--The authority to make a determination under 
    subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of paragraph (1) may be exercised 
    only by the Secretary or Deputy Secretary of Defense.''.
    SEC. 804. MIDDLE TIER OF ACQUISITION FOR RAPID PROTOTYPING AND 
      RAPID FIELDING.
    (a) Guidance Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, in consultation with the 
Comptroller of the Department of Defense and the Vice Chairman of the 
Joint Chiefs of Staff, shall establish guidance for a ``middle tier'' 
of acquisition programs that are intended to be completed in a period 
of two to five years.
    (b) Acquisition Pathways.--The guidance required by subsection (a) 
shall cover the following two acquisition pathways:
        (1) Rapid prototyping.--The rapid prototyping pathway shall 
    provide for the use of innovative technologies to rapidly develop 
    fieldable prototypes to demonstrate new capabilities and meet 
    emerging military needs. The objective of an acquisition program 
    under this pathway shall be to field a prototype that can be 
    demonstrated in an operational environment and provide for a 
    residual operational capability within five years of the 
    development of an approved requirement.
        (2) Rapid fielding.--The rapid fielding pathway shall provide 
    for the use of proven technologies to field production quantities 
    of new or upgraded systems with minimal development required. The 
    objective of an acquisition program under this pathway shall be to 
    begin production within six months and complete fielding within 
    five years of the development of an approved requirement.
    (c) Expedited Process.--
        (1) In general.--The guidance required by subsection (a) shall 
    provide for a streamlined and coordinated requirements, budget, and 
    acquisition process that results in the development of an approved 
    requirement for each program in a period of not more than six 
    months from the time that the process is initiated. Programs that 
    are subject to the guidance shall not be subject to the Joint 
    Capabilities Integration and Development System Manual and 
    Department of Defense Directive 5000.01, except to the extent 
    specifically provided in the guidance.
        (2) Rapid prototyping.--With respect to the rapid prototyping 
    pathway, the guidance shall include--
            (A) a merit-based process for the consideration of 
        innovative technologies and new capabilities to meet needs 
        communicated by the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the combatant 
        commanders;
            (B) a process for developing and implementing acquisition 
        and funding strategies for the program;
            (C) a process for cost-sharing with the military 
        departments on rapid prototype projects, to ensure an 
        appropriate commitment to the success of such projects;
            (D) a process for demonstrating and evaluating the 
        performance of fieldable prototypes developed pursuant to the 
        program in an operational environment; and
            (E) a process for transitioning successful prototypes to 
        new or existing acquisition programs for production and 
        fielding under the rapid fielding pathway or the traditional 
        acquisition system.
        (3) Rapid fielding.--With respect to the rapid fielding 
    pathway, the guidance shall include--
            (A) a merit-based process for the consideration of existing 
        products and proven technologies to meet needs communicated by 
        the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the combatant commanders;
            (B) a process for demonstrating performance and evaluating 
        for current operational purposes the proposed products and 
        technologies;
            (C) a process for developing and implementing acquisition 
        and funding strategies for the program; and
            (D) a process for considering lifecycle costs and 
        addressing issues of logistics support and system 
        interoperability.
        (4) Streamlined procedures.--The guidance for the programs may 
    provide for any of the following streamlined procedures:
            (A) The service acquisition executive of the military 
        department concerned shall appoint a program manager for such 
        program from among candidates from among civilian employees or 
        members of the Armed Forces who have significant and relevant 
        experience managing large and complex programs.
            (B) The program manager for each program shall report with 
        respect to such program directly, without intervening review or 
        approval, to the service acquisition executive of the military 
        department concerned.
            (C) The service acquisition executive of the military 
        department concerned shall evaluate the job performance of such 
        manager on an annual basis. In conducting an evaluation under 
        this paragraph, a service acquisition executive shall consider 
        the extent to which the manager has achieved the objectives of 
        the program for which the manager is responsible, including 
        quality, timeliness, and cost objectives.
            (D) The program manager of a defense streamlined program 
        shall be authorized staff positions for a technical staff, 
        including experts in business management, contracting, 
        auditing, engineering, testing, and logistics, to enable the 
        manager to manage the program without the technical assistance 
        of another organizational unit of an agency to the maximum 
        extent practicable.
            (E) The program manager of a defense streamlined program 
        shall be authorized, in coordination with the users of the 
        equipment and capability to be acquired and the test community, 
        to make trade-offs among life-cycle costs, requirements, and 
        schedules to meet the goals of the program.
            (F) The service acquisition executive, acting in 
        coordination with the defense acquisition executive, shall 
        serve as the milestone decision authority for the program.
            (G) The program manager of a defense streamlined program 
        shall be provided a process to expeditiously seek a waiver from 
        Congress from any statutory or regulatory requirement that the 
        program manager determines adds little or no value to the 
        management of the program.
    (d) Rapid Prototyping Fund.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall establish a 
    fund to be known as the ``Department of Defense Rapid Prototyping 
    Fund'' to provide funds, in addition to other funds that may be 
    available for acquisition programs under the rapid prototyping 
    pathway established pursuant to this section. The Fund shall be 
    managed by a senior official of the Department of Defense 
    designated by the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics. The Fund shall consist of amounts 
    appropriated to the Fund and amounts credited to the Fund pursuant 
    to section 828 of this Act.
        (2) Transfer authority.--Amounts available in the Fund may be 
    transferred to a military department for the purpose of carrying 
    out an acquisition program under the rapid prototyping pathway 
    established pursuant to this section. Any amount so transferred 
    shall be credited to the account to which it is transferred. The 
    transfer authority provided in this subsection is in addition to 
    any other transfer authority available to the Department of 
    Defense.
        (3) Congressional notice.--The senior official designated to 
    manage the Fund shall notify the congressional defense committees 
    of all transfers under paragraph (2). Each notification shall 
    specify the amount transferred, the purpose of the transfer, and 
    the total projected cost and estimated cost to complete the 
    acquisition program to which the funds were transferred.
    SEC. 805. USE OF ALTERNATIVE ACQUISITION PATHS TO ACQUIRE CRITICAL 
      NATIONAL SECURITY CAPABILITIES.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish procedures for 
alternative acquisition pathways to acquire capital assets and services 
that meet critical national security needs. The procedures shall--
        (1) be separate from existing acquisition procedures;
        (2) be supported by streamlined contracting, budgeting, and 
    requirements processes;
        (3) establish alternative acquisition paths based on the 
    capabilities being bought and the time needed to deploy these 
    capabilities; and
        (4) maximize the use of flexible authorities in existing law 
    and regulation.
    SEC. 806. SECRETARY OF DEFENSE WAIVER OF ACQUISITION LAWS TO 
      ACQUIRE VITAL NATIONAL SECURITY CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Waiver Authority.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
waive any provision of acquisition law or regulation described in 
subsection (c) for the purpose of acquiring a capability that would not 
otherwise be available to the Armed Forces of the United States, upon a 
determination that--
        (1) the acquisition of the capability is in the vital national 
    security interest of the United States;
        (2) the application of the law or regulation to be waived would 
    impede the acquisition of the capability in a manner that would 
    undermine the national security of the United States; and
        (3) the underlying purpose of the law or regulation to be 
    waived can be addressed in a different manner or at a different 
    time.
    (b) Designation of Responsible Official.--Whenever the Secretary of 
Defense makes a determination under subsection (a)(1) that the 
acquisition of a capability is in the vital national security interest 
of the United States, the Secretary shall designate a senior official 
of the Department of Defense who shall be personally responsible and 
accountable for the rapid and effective acquisition and deployment of 
the needed capability. The Secretary shall provide the designated 
official such authority as the Secretary determines necessary to 
achieve this objective, and may use the waiver authority in subsection 
(a) for this purpose.
    (c) Acquisition Laws and Regulations.--
        (1) In general.--Upon a determination described in subsection 
    (a), the Secretary of Defense is authorized to waive any provision 
    of law or regulation addressing--
            (A) the establishment of a requirement or specification for 
        the capability to be acquired;
            (B) research, development, test, and evaluation of the 
        capability to be acquired;
            (C) production, fielding, and sustainment of the capability 
        to be acquired; or
            (D) solicitation, selection of sources, and award of 
        contracts for the capability to be acquired.
        (2) Limitations.--Nothing in this subsection authorizes the 
    waiver of--
            (A) the requirements of this section;
            (B) any provision of law imposing civil or criminal 
        penalties; or
            (C) any provision of law governing the proper expenditure 
        of appropriated funds.
    (d) Report to Congress.--The Secretary of Defense shall notify the 
congressional defense committees at least 30 days before exercising the 
waiver authority under subsection (a). Each such notice shall include--
        (1) an explanation of the basis for determining that the 
    acquisition of the capability is in the vital national security 
    interest of the United States;
        (2) an identification of each provision of law or regulation to 
    be waived; and
        (3) for each provision identified pursuant to paragraph (2)--
            (A) an explanation of why the application of the provision 
        would impede the acquisition in a manner that would undermine 
        the national security of the United States; and
            (B) a description of the time or manner in which the 
        underlying purpose of the law or regulation to be waived will 
        be addressed.
    (e) Nondelegation.--The authority of the Secretary to waive 
provisions of laws and regulations under subsection (a) is 
nondelegable.
    SEC. 807. ACQUISITION AUTHORITY OF THE COMMANDER OF UNITED STATES 
      CYBER COMMAND.
    (a) Authority.--
        (1) In general.--The Commander of the United States Cyber 
    Command shall be responsible for, and shall have the authority to 
    conduct, the following acquisition activities:
            (A) Development and acquisition of cyber operations-
        peculiar equipment and capabilities.
            (B) Acquisition and sustainment of cyber capability-
        peculiar equipment, capabilities, and services.
        (2) Acquisition functions.--Subject to the authority, 
    direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Commander 
    shall have authority to exercise the functions of the head of an 
    agency under chapter 137 of title 10, United States Code.
    (b) Command Acquisition Executive.--
        (1) In general.--The staff of the Commander shall include a 
    command acquisition executive, who shall be responsible for the 
    overall supervision of acquisition matters for the United States 
    Cyber Command. The command acquisition executive shall have the 
    authority--
            (A) to negotiate memoranda of agreement with the military 
        departments and Department of Defense components to carry out 
        the acquisition of equipment, capabilities, and services 
        described in subsection (a)(1) on behalf of the Command;
            (B) to supervise the acquisition of equipment, 
        capabilities, and services described in subsection (a)(1);
            (C) to represent the Command in discussions with the 
        military departments regarding acquisition programs for which 
        the Command is a customer; and
            (D) to work with the military departments to ensure that 
        the Command is appropriately represented in any joint working 
        group or integrated product team regarding acquisition programs 
        for which the Command is a customer.
        (2) Delivery of acquisition solutions.--The command acquisition 
    executive of the United States Cyber Command shall be--
            (A) responsible to the Commander for rapidly delivering 
        acquisition solutions to meet validated cyber operations-
        peculiar requirements;
            (B) subordinate to the defense acquisition executive in 
        matters of acquisition;
            (C) subject to the same oversight as the service 
        acquisition executives; and
            (D) included on the distribution list for acquisition 
        directives and instructions of the Department of Defense.
    (c) Acquisition Personnel.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide the 
    United States Cyber Command with the personnel or funding 
    equivalent to ten full-time equivalent personnel to support the 
    Commander in fulfilling the acquisition responsibilities provided 
    for under this section with experience in--
            (A) program acquisition;
            (B) the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development 
        System Process;
            (C) program management;
            (D) system engineering; and
            (E) costing.
        (2) Existing personnel.--The personnel provided under this 
    subsection shall be provided from among the existing personnel of 
    the Department of Defense.
    (d) Budget.--In addition to the activities of a combatant command 
for which funding may be requested under section 166 of title 10, 
United States Code, the budget proposal of the United States Cyber 
Command shall include requests for funding for--
        (1) development and acquisition of cyber operations-peculiar 
    equipment; and
        (2) acquisition and sustainment of other capabilities or 
    services that are peculiar to cyber operations activities.
    (e) Cyber Operations Procurement Fund.--In exercising the authority 
granted in subsection (a), the Commander may not obligate or expend 
more than $75,000,000 out of the funds made available in each fiscal 
year from 2016 through 2021 to support acquisition activities provided 
for under this section.
    (f) Rule of Construction Regarding Intelligence and Special 
Activities.--Nothing in this section shall be construed to constitute 
authority to conduct any activity which, if carried out as an 
intelligence activity by the Department of Defense, would require a 
notice to the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
Representatives under title V of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
U.S.C. 3091 et seq.).
    (g) Implementation Plan Required.--The authority granted in 
subsection (a) shall become effective 30 days after the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional defense 
committees a plan for implementation of those authorities under 
subsection (a). The plan shall include the following:
        (1) A Department of Defense definition of--
            (A) cyber operations-peculiar equipment and capabilities; 
        and
            (B) cyber capability-peculiar equipment, capabilities, and 
        services.
        (2) Summaries of the components to be negotiated in the 
    memorandum of agreements with the military departments and other 
    Department of Defense components to carry out the development, 
    acquisition, and sustainment of equipment, capabilities, and 
    services described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of subsection 
    (a)(1).
        (3) Memorandum of agreement negotiation and approval timelines.
        (4) Plan for oversight of the command acquisition executive 
    established in subsection (b).
        (5) Assessment of the acquisition workforce needs of the United 
    States Cyber Command to support the authority in subsection (a) 
    until 2021.
        (6) Other matters as appropriate.
    (h) Annual End-of-year Assessment.--Each year, the Cyber Investment 
Management Board shall review and assess the acquisition activities of 
the United States Cyber Command, including contracting and acquisition 
documentation, for the previous fiscal year, and provide any 
recommendations or feedback to the acquisition executive of Cyber 
Command.
    (i) Sunset.--
        (1) In general.--The authority under this section shall 
    terminate on September 30, 2021.
        (2) Limitation on duration of acquisitions.--The authority 
    under this section does not include major defense acquisition 
    programs, major automated information system programs, or 
    acquisitions of foundational infrastructure or software 
    architectures the duration of which is expected to last more than 
    five years.
    SEC. 808. REPORT ON LINKING AND STREAMLINING REQUIREMENTS, 
      ACQUISITION, AND BUDGET PROCESSES WITHIN ARMED FORCES.
    (a) Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of 
Naval Operations, the Chief of Staff of the Air Force, and the 
Commandant of the Marine Corps shall each submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report on efforts to link and streamline the 
requirements, acquisition, and budget processes within the Army, Navy, 
Air Force, and Marine Corps, respectively.
    (b) Matters Included.--Each report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A specific description of--
            (A) the management actions the Chief concerned or the 
        Commandant has taken or plans to take to link and streamline 
        the requirements, acquisition, and budget processes of the 
        Armed Force concerned;
            (B) any reorganization or process changes that will link 
        and streamline the requirements, acquisition, and budget 
        processes of the Armed Force concerned; and
            (C) any cross-training or professional development 
        initiatives of the Chief concerned or the Commandant.
        (2) For each description under paragraph (1)--
            (A) the specific timeline associated with implementation;
            (B) the anticipated outcomes once implemented; and
            (C) how to measure whether or not those outcomes are 
        realized.
        (3) Any other matters the Chief concerned or the Commandant 
    considers appropriate.
    SEC. 809. ADVISORY PANEL ON STREAMLINING AND CODIFYING ACQUISITION 
      REGULATIONS.
    (a) Establishment.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish under 
the sponsorship of the Defense Acquisition University and the National 
Defense University an advisory panel on streamlining acquisition 
regulations.
    (b) Membership.--The panel shall be composed of at least nine 
individuals who are recognized experts in acquisition and procurement 
policy. In making appointments to the advisory panel, the Under 
Secretary shall ensure that the members of the panel reflect diverse 
experiences in the public and private sectors.
    (c) Duties.--The panel shall--
        (1) review the acquisition regulations applicable to the 
    Department of Defense with a view toward streamlining and improving 
    the efficiency and effectiveness of the defense acquisition process 
    and maintaining defense technology advantage; and
        (2) make any recommendations for the amendment or repeal of 
    such regulations that the panel considers necessary, as a result of 
    such review, to--
            (A) establish and administer appropriate buyer and seller 
        relationships in the procurement system;
            (B) improve the functioning of the acquisition system;
            (C) ensure the continuing financial and ethical integrity 
        of defense procurement programs;
            (D) protect the best interests of the Department of 
        Defense; and
            (E) eliminate any regulations that are unnecessary for the 
        purposes described in subparagraphs (A) through (D).
    (d) Administrative Matters.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide the 
    advisory panel established pursuant to subsection (a) with timely 
    access to appropriate information, data, resources, and analysis so 
    that the advisory panel may conduct a thorough and independent 
    assessment as required under such subsection.
        (2) Inapplicability of faca.--The requirements of the Federal 
    Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall not apply to the 
    advisory panel established pursuant to subsection (a).
    (e) Report.--
        (1) Panel report.--Not later than two years after the date on 
    which the Secretary of Defense establishes the advisory panel, the 
    panel shall transmit a final report to the Secretary.
        (2) Elements.--The final report shall contain a detailed 
    statement of the findings and conclusions of the panel, including--
            (A) a history of each current acquisition regulation and a 
        recommendation as to whether the regulation and related law (if 
        applicable) should be retained, modified, or repealed; and
            (B) such additional recommendations for legislation as the 
        panel considers appropriate.
        (3) Interim reports.--(A) Not later than 6 months and 18 months 
    after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit a report to or brief the congressional defense 
    committees on the interim findings of the panel with respect to the 
    elements set forth in paragraph (2).
        (B) The panel shall provide regular updates to the Secretary of 
    Defense for purposes of providing the interim reports required 
    under this paragraph.
        (4) Final report.--Not later than 30 days after receiving the 
    final report of the advisory panel, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    transmit the final report, together with such comments as the 
    Secretary determines appropriate, to the congressional defense 
    committees.
    (f) Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund Support.--The 
Secretary of Defense may use amounts available in the Department of 
Defense Acquisition Workforce Development Fund established under 
section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, to support activities of 
the advisory panel under this section.
    SEC. 810. REVIEW OF TIME-BASED REQUIREMENTS PROCESS AND BUDGETING 
      AND ACQUISITION SYSTEMS.
    (a) Time-based Requirements Process.--The Secretary of Defense and 
the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall review the requirements 
process with the goal of establishing an agile and streamlined system 
that develops requirements that provide stability and foundational 
direction for acquisition programs and shall determine the advisability 
of providing a time-based or phased distinction between capabilities 
needed to be deployed urgently, within 2 years, within 5 years, and 
longer than 5 years.
    (b) Budgeting and Acquisition Systems.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall review and ensure that the acquisition and budgeting systems are 
structured to meet time-based or phased requirements in a manner that 
is predictable, cost effective, and efficient and takes advantage of 
emerging technological developments.

Subtitle B--Amendments to General Contracting Authorities, Procedures, 
                            and Limitations

    SEC. 811. AMENDMENT RELATING TO MULTIYEAR CONTRACT AUTHORITY FOR 
      ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
    Subsection (a)(1) and subsection (i)(4) of section 2306b of title 
10, United States Code, are each amended by striking ``substantial'' 
and inserting ``significant''.
    SEC. 812. APPLICABILITY OF COST AND PRICING DATA AND CERTIFICATION 
      REQUIREMENTS.
    Section 2306a(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) to the extent such data--
                ``(i) relates to an offset agreement in connection with 
            a contract for the sale of a weapon system or defense-
            related item to a foreign country or foreign firm; and
                ``(ii) does not relate to a contract or subcontract 
            under the offset agreement for work performed in such 
            foreign country or by such foreign firm that is directly 
            related to the weapon system or defense-related item being 
            purchased under the contract.''.
    SEC. 813. RIGHTS IN TECHNICAL DATA.
    (a) Rights in Technical Data Relating to Major Weapon Systems.--
Paragraph (2) of section 2321(f) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(2) In the case of a challenge to a use or release restriction 
that is asserted with respect to technical data of a contractor or 
subcontractor for a major system or a subsystem or component thereof on 
the basis that the major weapon system, subsystem, or component was 
developed exclusively at private expense--
        ``(A) the presumption in paragraph (1) shall apply--
            ``(i) with regard to a commercial subsystem or component of 
        a major system, if the major system was acquired as a 
        commercial item in accordance with section 2379(a) of this 
        title;
            ``(ii) with regard to a component of a subsystem, if the 
        subsystem was acquired as a commercial item in accordance with 
        section 2379(b) of this title; and
            ``(iii) with regard to any other component, if the 
        component is a commercially available off-the-shelf item or a 
        commercially available off-the-shelf item with modifications of 
        a type customarily available in the commercial marketplace or 
        minor modifications made to meet Federal Government 
        requirements; and
        ``(B) in all other cases, the challenge to the use or release 
    restriction shall be sustained unless information provided by the 
    contractor or subcontractor demonstrates that the item was 
    developed exclusively at private expense.''.
    (b) Government-industry Advisory Panel.--
        (1) Establishment.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through 
    the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics, shall establish a Government-industry advisory panel for 
    the purpose of reviewing sections 2320 and 2321 of title 10, United 
    States Code, regarding rights in technical data and the validation 
    of proprietary data restrictions and the regulations implementing 
    such sections, for the purpose of ensuring that such statutory and 
    regulatory requirements are best structured to serve the interests 
    of the taxpayers and the national defense.
        (2) Membership.--The panel shall be chaired by an individual 
    selected by the Under Secretary, and the Under Secretary shall 
    ensure that--
            (A) the government members of the advisory panel are 
        knowledgeable about technical data issues and appropriately 
        represent the three military departments, as well as the legal, 
        acquisition, logistics, and research and development 
        communities in the Department of Defense; and
            (B) the private sector members of the advisory panel 
        include independent experts and individuals appropriately 
        representative of the diversity of interested parties, 
        including large and small businesses, traditional and non-
        traditional government contractors, prime contractors and 
        subcontractors, suppliers of hardware and software, and 
        institutions of higher education.
        (3) Scope of review.--In conducting the review required by 
    paragraph (1), the advisory panel shall give appropriate 
    consideration to the following factors:
            (A) Ensuring that the Department of Defense does not pay 
        more than once for the same work.
            (B) Ensuring that Department of Defense contractors are 
        appropriately rewarded for their innovation and invention.
            (C) Providing for cost-effective reprocurement, 
        sustainment, modification, and upgrades to Department of 
        Defense systems.
            (D) Encouraging the private sector to invest in new 
        products, technologies, and processes relevant to the missions 
        of the Department of Defense.
            (E) Ensuring that the Department of Defense has appropriate 
        access to innovative products, technologies, and processes 
        developed by the private sector for commercial use.
        (4) Final report.--Not later than September 30, 2016, the 
    advisory panel shall submit its final report and recommendations to 
    the Secretary of Defense. Not later than 60 days after receiving 
    the report, the Secretary shall submit a copy of the report, 
    together with any comments or recommendations, to the congressional 
    defense committees.
    SEC. 814. PROCUREMENT OF SUPPLIES FOR EXPERIMENTAL PURPOSES.
    (a) Additional Procurement Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 
2373 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
``transportation, energy, medical, space-flight,'' before ``and 
aeronautical supplies''.
    (b) Applicability of Chapter 137 of Title 10, United States Code.--
Subsection (b) of such section is amended by striking ``only when such 
purchases are made in quantity'' and inserting ``only when such 
purchases are made in quantities greater than necessary for 
experimentation, technical evaluation, assessment of operational 
utility, or safety or to provide a residual operational capability''.
    SEC. 815. AMENDMENTS TO OTHER TRANSACTION AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority of the Department of Defense To Carry Out Certain 
Prototype Projects.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2371a the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 2371b. Authority of the Department of Defense to carry out 
     certain prototype projects
    ``(a) Authority.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the Director of the 
Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, the Secretary of a military 
department, or any other official designated by the Secretary of 
Defense may, under the authority of section 2371 of this title, carry 
out prototype projects that are directly relevant to enhancing the 
mission effectiveness of military personnel and the supporting 
platforms, systems, components, or materials proposed to be acquired or 
developed by the Department of Defense, or to improvement of platforms, 
systems, components, or materials in use by the armed forces.
    ``(2) The authority of this section--
        ``(A) may be exercised for a prototype project that is expected 
    to cost the Department of Defense in excess of $50,000,000 but not 
    in excess of $250,000,000 (including all options) only upon a 
    written determination by the senior procurement executive for the 
    agency as designated for the purpose of section 1702(c) of title 
    41, or, for the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency or the 
    Missile Defense Agency, the director of the agency that--
            ``(i) the requirements of subsection (d) will be met; and
            ``(ii) the use of the authority of this section is 
        essential to promoting the success of the prototype project; 
        and
        ``(B) may be exercised for a prototype project that is expected 
    to cost the Department of Defense in excess of $250,000,000 
    (including all options) only if--
            ``(i) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics determines in writing that--
                ``(I) the requirements of subsection (d) will be met; 
            and
                ``(II) the use of the authority of this section is 
            essential to meet critical national security objectives; 
            and
            ``(ii) the congressional defense committees are notified in 
        writing at least 30 days before such authority is exercised.
    ``(3) The authority of a senior procurement executive or director 
of the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency or Missile Defense 
Agency under paragraph (2)(A), and the authority of the Under Secretary 
of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics under paragraph 
(2)(B), may not be delegated.
    ``(b) Exercise of Authority.--
        ``(1) Subsections (e)(1)(B) and (e)(2) of such section 2371 
    shall not apply to projects carried out under subsection (a).
        ``(2) To the maximum extent practicable, competitive procedures 
    shall be used when entering into agreements to carry out projects 
    under subsection (a).
    ``(c) Comptroller General Access to Information.--(1) Each 
agreement entered into by an official referred to in subsection (a) to 
carry out a project under that subsection that provides for payments in 
a total amount in excess of $5,000,000 shall include a clause that 
provides for the Comptroller General, in the discretion of the 
Comptroller General, to examine the records of any party to the 
agreement or any entity that participates in the performance of the 
agreement.
    ``(2) The requirement in paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect 
to a party or entity, or a subordinate element of a party or entity, 
that has not entered into any other agreement that provides for audit 
access by a Government entity in the year prior to the date of the 
agreement.
    ``(3)(A) The right provided to the Comptroller General in a clause 
of an agreement under paragraph (1) is limited as provided in 
subparagraph (B) in the case of a party to the agreement, an entity 
that participates in the performance of the agreement, or a subordinate 
element of that party or entity if the only agreements or other 
transactions that the party, entity, or subordinate element entered 
into with Government entities in the year prior to the date of that 
agreement are cooperative agreements or transactions that were entered 
into under this section or section 2371 of this title.
    ``(B) The only records of a party, other entity, or subordinate 
element referred to in subparagraph (A) that the Comptroller General 
may examine in the exercise of the right referred to in that 
subparagraph are records of the same type as the records that the 
Government has had the right to examine under the audit access clauses 
of the previous agreements or transactions referred to in such 
subparagraph that were entered into by that particular party, entity, 
or subordinate element.
    ``(4) The head of the contracting activity that is carrying out the 
agreement may waive the applicability of the requirement in paragraph 
(1) to the agreement if the head of the contracting activity determines 
that it would not be in the public interest to apply the requirement to 
the agreement. The waiver shall be effective with respect to the 
agreement only if the head of the contracting activity transmits a 
notification of the waiver to Congress and the Comptroller General 
before entering into the agreement. The notification shall include the 
rationale for the determination.
    ``(5) The Comptroller General may not examine records pursuant to a 
clause included in an agreement under paragraph (1) more than three 
years after the final payment is made by the United States under the 
agreement.
    ``(d) Appropriate Use of Authority.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall ensure that no official of an agency enters into a transaction 
(other than a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement) for a 
prototype project under the authority of this section unless one of the 
following conditions is met:
        ``(A) There is at least one nontraditional defense contractor 
    participating to a significant extent in the prototype project.
        ``(B) All significant participants in the transaction other 
    than the Federal Government are small businesses or nontraditional 
    defense contractors.
        ``(C) At least one third of the total cost of the prototype 
    project is to be paid out of funds provided by parties to the 
    transaction other than the Federal Government.
        ``(D) The senior procurement executive for the agency 
    determines in writing that exceptional circumstances justify the 
    use of a transaction that provides for innovative business 
    arrangements or structures that would not be feasible or 
    appropriate under a contract, or would provide an opportunity to 
    expand the defense supply base in a manner that would not be 
    practical or feasible under a contract.
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the amounts 
counted for the purposes of this subsection as being provided, or to be 
provided, by a party to a transaction with respect to a prototype 
project that is entered into under this section other than the Federal 
Government do not include costs that were incurred before the date on 
which the transaction becomes effective.
    ``(B) Costs that were incurred for a prototype project by a party 
after the beginning of negotiations resulting in a transaction (other 
than a contract, grant, or cooperative agreement) with respect to the 
project before the date on which the transaction becomes effective may 
be counted for purposes of this subsection as being provided, or to be 
provided, by the party to the transaction if and to the extent that the 
official responsible for entering into the transaction determines in 
writing that--
        ``(i) the party incurred the costs in anticipation of entering 
    into the transaction; and
        ``(ii) it was appropriate for the party to incur the costs 
    before the transaction became effective in order to ensure the 
    successful implementation of the transaction.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `nontraditional defense contractor' has the 
    meaning given the term under section 2302(9) of this title.
        ``(2) The term `small business' means a small business concern 
    as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    632).
    ``(f) Follow-on Production Contracts or Transactions.--(1) A 
transaction entered into under this section for a prototype project may 
provide for the award of a follow-on production contract or transaction 
to the participants in the transaction.
    ``(2) A follow-on production contract or transaction provided for 
in a transaction under paragraph (1) may be awarded to the participants 
in the transaction without the use of competitive procedures, 
notwithstanding the requirements of section 2304 of this title, if--
        ``(A) competitive procedures were used for the selection of 
    parties for participation in the transaction; and
        ``(B) the participants in the transaction successfully 
    completed the prototype project provided for in the transaction.
    ``(3) Contracts and transactions entered into pursuant to this 
subsection may be awarded using the authority in subsection (a), under 
the authority of chapter 137 of this title, or under such procedures, 
terms, and conditions as the Secretary of Defense may establish by 
regulation.
    ``(g) Authority To Provide Prototypes and Follow-on Production 
Items as Government-furnished Equipment.--An agreement entered into 
pursuant to the authority of subsection (a) or a follow-on contract or 
transaction entered into pursuant to the authority of subsection (f) 
may provide for prototypes or follow-on production items to be provided 
to another contractor as Government-furnished equipment.
    ``(h) Applicability of Procurement Ethics Requirements.--An 
agreement entered into under the authority of this section shall be 
treated as a Federal agency procurement for the purposes of chapter 21 
of title 41.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 139 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
    relating to section 2371a the following new item:

``2371b. Authority of the Department of Defense to carry out certain 
          prototype projects.''.

    (b) Modification to Definition of Nontraditional Defense 
Contractor.--Section 2302(9) of such title is amended to read as 
follows:
        ``(9) The term `nontraditional defense contractor', with 
    respect to a procurement or with respect to a transaction 
    authorized under section 2371(a) or 2371b of this title, means an 
    entity that is not currently performing and has not performed, for 
    at least the one-year period preceding the solicitation of sources 
    by the Department of Defense for the procurement or transaction, 
    any contract or subcontract for the Department of Defense that is 
    subject to full coverage under the cost accounting standards 
    prescribed pursuant to section 1502 of title 41 and the regulations 
    implementing such section.''.
    (c) Repeal of Obsolete Authority.--Section 845 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1994 (Public Law 103-160; 10 
U.S.C. 2371 note) is hereby repealed. Transactions entered into under 
the authority of such section 845 shall remain in force and effect and 
shall be modified as appropriate to reflect the amendments made by this 
section.
    (d) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--Subparagraph (B) of 
section 1601(c)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2004 (Public Law 108-136; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended to read 
as follows:
        ``(B) sections 2371 and 2371b of title 10, United States 
    Code.''.
    (e) Updated Guidance.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall issue updated 
guidance to implement the amendments made by this section.
    (f) Assessment Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an assessment of--
        (1) the benefits and risks of permitting not-for-profit defense 
    contractors to be awarded transaction agreements under section 
    2371b of title 10, United States Code, for the purposes of cost-
    sharing requirements of subsection (d)(1)(C) of such section; and
        (2) the benefits and risks of removing the cost-sharing 
    requirements of subsection (d)(1)(C) of such section in their 
    entirety.
    SEC. 816. AMENDMENT TO ACQUISITION THRESHOLD FOR SPECIAL EMERGENCY 
      PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY.
    Section 1903(b)(2) of title 41, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``$250,000'' and inserting 
    ``$750,000''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``$1,000,000'' and 
    inserting ``$1,500,000''.
    SEC. 817. REVISION OF METHOD OF ROUNDING WHEN MAKING INFLATION 
      ADJUSTMENT OF ACQUISITION-RELATED DOLLAR THRESHOLDS.
    Section 1908(e)(2) of title 41, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking ``on 
    the day before the adjustment'' and inserting ``as calculated under 
    paragraph (1)'';
        (2) by striking ``and'' at the end of subparagraph (C); and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the following 
    new subparagraphs:
            ``(D) not less than $1,000,000, but less than $10,000,000, 
        to the nearest $500,000;
            ``(E) not less than $10,000,000, but less than 
        $100,000,000, to the nearest $5,000,000;
            ``(F) not less than $100,000,000, but less than 
        $1,000,000,000, to the nearest $50,000,000; and
            ``(G) $1,000,000,000 or more, to the nearest 
        $500,000,000.''.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Major Defense Acquisition Programs

    SEC. 821. ACQUISITION STRATEGY REQUIRED FOR EACH MAJOR DEFENSE 
      ACQUISITION PROGRAM, MAJOR AUTOMATED INFORMATION SYSTEM, AND 
      MAJOR SYSTEM.
    (a) Consolidation of Requirements Relating to Acquisition 
Strategy.--
        (1) New title 10 section.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2431 the 
    following new section:
``Sec. 2431a. Acquisition strategy
    ``(a) Acquisition Strategy Required.--There shall be an acquisition 
strategy for each major defense acquisition program, each major 
automated information system, and each major system approved by a 
milestone decision authority.
    ``(b) Responsible Official.--For each acquisition strategy required 
by subsection (a), the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics is responsible for issuing and maintaining 
the requirements for--
        ``(1) the content of the strategy; and
        ``(2) the review and approval process for the strategy.
    ``(c) Considerations.--(1) In issuing requirements for the content 
of an acquisition strategy for a major defense acquisition program, 
major automated information system, or major system, the Under 
Secretary shall ensure that--
        ``(A) the strategy clearly describes the proposed top-level 
    business and technical management approach for the program or 
    system, in sufficient detail to allow the milestone decision 
    authority to assess the viability of the proposed approach, the 
    method of implementing laws and policies, and program objectives;
        ``(B) the strategy contains a clear explanation of how the 
    strategy is designed to be implemented with available resources, 
    such as time, funding, and management capacity;
        ``(C) the strategy is tailored to address program requirements 
    and constraints; and
        ``(D) the strategy considers the items listed in paragraph (2).
    ``(2) Each strategy shall, where appropriate, consider the 
following:
        ``(A) An approach that delivers required capability in 
    increments, each depending on available mature technology, and that 
    recognizes up front the need for future capability improvements.
        ``(B) Acquisition approach, including industrial base 
    considerations in accordance with section 2440 of this title.
        ``(C) Risk management, including such methods as competitive 
    prototyping at the system, subsystem, or component level, in 
    accordance with section 2431b of this title.
        ``(D) Business strategy, including measures to ensure 
    competition at the system and subsystem level throughout the life-
    cycle of the program or system in accordance with section 2337 of 
    this title.
        ``(E) Contracting strategy, including--
            ``(i) contract type and how the type selected relates to 
        level of program risk in each acquisition phase;
            ``(ii) how the plans for the program or system to reduce 
        risk enable the use of fixed-price elements in subsequent 
        contracts and the timing of the use of those fixed price 
        elements;
            ``(iii) market research; and
            ``(iv) consideration of small business participation.
        ``(F) Intellectual property strategy in accordance with section 
    2320 of this title.
        ``(G) International involvement, including foreign military 
    sales and cooperative opportunities, in accordance with section 
    2350a of this title.
        ``(H) Multiyear procurement in accordance with section 2306b of 
    this title.
        ``(I) Integration of current intelligence assessments into the 
    acquisition process.
        ``(J) Requirements related to logistics, maintenance, and 
    sustainment in accordance with sections 2464 and 2466 of this 
    title.
    ``(d) Review.--(1) Subject to the authority, direction, and control 
of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics, the milestone decision authority shall review and approve, 
as appropriate, the acquisition strategy for a major defense 
acquisition program, major automated information system, or major 
system at each of the following times:
            ``(A) Milestone A approval.
            ``(B) The decision to release the request for proposals for 
        development of the program or system.
            ``(C) Milestone B approval.
            ``(D) Each subsequent milestone.
            ``(E) Review of any decision to enter into full-rate 
        production.
            ``(F) When there has been--
                ``(i) a significant change to the cost of the program 
            or system;
                ``(ii) a critical change to the cost of the program or 
            system;
                ``(iii) a significant change to the schedule of the 
            program or system; or
                ``(iv) a significant change to the performance of the 
            program or system.
            ``(G) Any other time considered relevant by the milestone 
        decision authority.
    ``(2) If the milestone decision authority revises an acquisition 
strategy for a program or system, the milestone decision authority 
shall provide notice of the revision to the congressional defense 
committees.
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `major defense acquisition program' has the 
    meaning provided in section 2430 of this title.
        ``(2) The term `major system' has the meaning provided in 
    section 2302(5) of this title.
        ``(3) The term `Milestone A approval' means a decision to enter 
    into technology maturation and risk reduction pursuant to guidance 
    prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for the management of 
    Department of Defense acquisition programs.
        ``(4) The term `Milestone B approval' has the meaning provided 
    in section 2366(e)(7) of this title.
        ``(5) The term `milestone decision authority', with respect to 
    a major defense acquisition program, major automated information 
    system, or major system, means the official within the Department 
    of Defense designated with the overall responsibility and authority 
    for acquisition decisions for the program or system, including 
    authority to approve entry of the program or system into the next 
    phase of the acquisition process.
        ``(6) The term `management capacity', with respect to a major 
    defense acquisition program, major automated information system, or 
    major system, means the capacity to manage the program or system 
    through the use of highly qualified organizations and personnel 
    with appropriate experience, knowledge, and skills.
        ``(7) The term `significant change to the cost', with respect 
    to a major defense acquisition program or major system, means a 
    significant cost growth threshold, as that term is defined in 
    section 2433(a)(4) of this title.
        ``(8) The term `critical change to the cost', with respect to a 
    major defense acquisition program or major system, means a critical 
    cost growth threshold, as that term is defined in section 
    2433(a)(5) of this title.
        ``(9) The term `significant change to the schedule', with 
    respect to a major defense acquisition program, major automated 
    information system, or major system, means any schedule delay 
    greater than six months in a reported event.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 2431 the following new item:

``2431a. Acquisition strategy.''.

    (b)  Additional Amendments.--
        (1) Section 2350a(e) of such title is amended--
            (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Document'';
            (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the Under Secretary of 
        Defense for'' and all that follows through ``of the Board'' and 
        inserting ``opportunities for such cooperative research and 
        development shall be addressed in the acquisition strategy for 
        the project''; and
            (C) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A)--

                    (I) by striking ``document'' and inserting 
                ``discussion''; and
                    (II) by striking ``include'' and inserting 
                ``consider'';

                (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``A statement 
            indicating whether'' and inserting ``Whether'';
                (iii) in subparagraph (B)--

                    (I) by striking ``by the Under Secretary of Defense 
                for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics''; and
                    (II) by striking ``of the United States under 
                consideration by the Department of Defense''; and

                (iv) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``The 
            recommendation of the Under Secretary'' and inserting ``A 
            recommendation to the milestone decision authority''.
        (2) Section 803 of the Bob Stump National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) 
    is repealed.
    SEC. 822. REVISION TO REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO RISK MANAGEMENT IN 
      DEVELOPMENT OF MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS AND MAJOR 
      SYSTEMS.
    (a) Risk Management and Mitigation Requirements.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 144 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by inserting after section 2431a (as added by section 
    821) the following new section:
``Sec. 2431b. Risk management and mitigation in major defense 
     acquisition programs and major systems
    ``(a) Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
initial acquisition strategy (required under section 2431a of this 
title) approved by the milestone decision authority and any subsequent 
revisions include the following:
        ``(1) A comprehensive approach for managing and mitigating risk 
    (including technical, cost, and schedule risk) during each of the 
    following periods or when determined appropriate by the milestone 
    decision authority:
            ``(A) The period preceding engineering manufacturing 
        development, or its equivalent.
            ``(B) The period preceding initial production.
            ``(C) The period preceding full-rate production.
        ``(2) An identification of the major sources of risk in each of 
    the periods listed in paragraph (1) to improve programmatic 
    decisionmaking and appropriately minimize and manage program 
    concurrency.
    ``(b) Approach to Manage and Mitigate Risks.--The comprehensive 
approach to manage and mitigate risk included in the acquisition 
strategy for purposes of subsection (a)(1) shall, at a minimum, include 
consideration of risk mitigation techniques such as the following:
        ``(1) Prototyping (including prototyping at the system, 
    subsystem, or component level and competitive prototyping, where 
    appropriate) and, if prototyping at either the system, subsystem, 
    or component level is not used, an explanation of why it is not 
    appropriate.
        ``(2) Modeling and simulation, the areas that modeling and 
    simulation will assess, and identification of the need for 
    development of any new modeling and simulation tools in order to 
    support the comprehensive strategy.
        ``(3) Technology demonstrations and decision points for 
    disciplined transition of planned technologies into programs or the 
    selection of alternative technologies.
        ``(4) Multiple design approaches.
        ``(5) Alternative designs, including any designs that meet 
    requirements but do so with reduced performance.
        ``(6) Phasing of program activities or related technology 
    development efforts in order to address high-risk areas as early as 
    feasible.
        ``(7) Manufacturability and industrial base availability.
        ``(8) Independent risk element assessments by outside subject 
    matter experts.
        ``(9) Schedule and funding margins for identified risks.
    ``(c) Preference for Prototyping.--To the maximum extent 
practicable and consistent with the economical use of available 
financial resources, the milestone decision authority for each major 
defense acquisition program shall ensure that the acquisition strategy 
for the program provides for--
        ``(1) the production of competitive prototypes at the system or 
    subsystem level before Milestone B approval; or
        ``(2) if the production of competitive prototypes is not 
    practicable, the production of single prototypes at the system or 
    subsystem level.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section, the terms `major defense 
acquisition program' and `major system' have the meanings provided in 
section 2431a of this title.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 2431a, as so added, the following new item:

``2431b. Risk reduction in major defense acquisition programs and major 
          systems.''.

    (b) Repeal of Superseded Provision.--Section 203 of the Weapon 
Systems Acquisition Reform Act of 2009 (10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is 
repealed.
    SEC. 823. REVISION OF MILESTONE A DECISION AUTHORITY 
      RESPONSIBILITIES FOR MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Revision to Milestone a Requirements.--Section 2366a of title 
10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2366a. Major defense acquisition programs: determination 
     required before Milestone A approval
    ``(a) Responsibilities.--Before granting Milestone A approval for a 
major defense acquisition program or a major subprogram, the milestone 
decision authority for the program or subprogram shall ensure that--
        ``(1) information about the program or subprogram is sufficient 
    to warrant entry of the program or subprogram into the risk 
    reduction phase;
        ``(2) the Secretary of the military department concerned and 
    the Chief of the armed force concerned concur in the cost, 
    schedule, technical feasibility, and performance trade-offs that 
    have been made with regard to the program; and
        ``(3) there are sound plans for progression of the program or 
    subprogram to the development phase.
    ``(b) Written Determination Required.--A major defense acquisition 
program or subprogram may not receive Milestone A approval or otherwise 
be initiated prior to Milestone B approval until the milestone decision 
authority determines in writing, after consultation with the Joint 
Requirements Oversight Council on matters related to program 
requirements and military needs--
        ``(1) that the program fulfills an approved initial 
    capabilities document;
        ``(2) that the program has been developed in light of 
    appropriate market research;
        ``(3) if the program duplicates a capability already provided 
    by an existing system, the duplication provided by such program is 
    necessary and appropriate;
        ``(4) that, with respect to any identified areas of risk, there 
    is a plan to reduce the risk;
        ``(5) that planning for sustainment has been addressed and that 
    a determination of applicability of core logistics capabilities 
    requirements has been made;
        ``(6) that an analysis of alternatives has been performed 
    consistent with study guidance developed by the Director of Cost 
    Assessment and Program Evaluation;
        ``(7) that a cost estimate for the program has been submitted, 
    with the concurrence of the Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
    Evaluation, and that the level of resources required to develop, 
    procure, and sustain the program is sufficient for successful 
    program execution; and
        ``(8) that the program or subprogram meets any other 
    considerations the milestone decision authority considers relevant.
    ``(c) Submission to Congress.--At the request of any of the 
congressional defense committees, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the committee an explanation of the basis for a determination made 
under subsection (b) with respect to a major defense acquisition 
program, together with a copy of the written determination. The 
explanation shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a 
classified annex.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `major defense acquisition program' has the 
    meaning provided in section 2430 of this title.
        ``(2) The term `initial capabilities document' means any 
    capabilities requirement document approved by the Joint 
    Requirements Oversight Council that establishes the need for a 
    materiel approach to resolve a capability gap.
        ``(3) The term `Milestone A approval' means a decision to enter 
    into technology maturation and risk reduction pursuant to guidance 
    prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for the management of 
    Department of Defense acquisition programs.
        ``(4) The term `Milestone B approval' has the meaning provided 
    that term in section 2366(e)(7) of this title.
        ``(5) The term `core logistics capabilities' means the core 
    logistics capabilities identified under section 2464(a) of this 
    title.
        ``(6) the term `major subprogram' means a major subprogram of a 
    major defense acquisition program designated under section 
    2430a(a)(1) of this title.
        ``(7) The term `milestone decision authority', with respect to 
    a major defense acquisition program or a major subprogram, means 
    the official within the Department of Defense designated with the 
    overall responsibility and authority for acquisition decisions for 
    the program or subprogram, including authority to approve entry of 
    the program or subprogram into the next phase of the acquisition 
    process.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 139 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to 
section 2366a and inserting the following:

``2366a. Major defense acquisition programs: determination required 
          before Milestone A approval.''.
    SEC. 824. REVISION OF MILESTONE B DECISION AUTHORITY 
      RESPONSIBILITIES FOR MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Revision to Milestone B Requirements.--Section 2366b of title 
10, United Stated Code, is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2366b. Major defense acquisition programs: certification 
     required before Milestone B approval
    ``(a) Certifications and Determination Required.--A major defense 
acquisition program may not receive Milestone B approval until the 
milestone decision authority--
        ``(1) has received a preliminary design review and conducted a 
    formal post-preliminary design review assessment, and certifies on 
    the basis of such assessment that the program demonstrates a high 
    likelihood of accomplishing its intended mission;
        ``(2) further certifies that the technology in the program has 
    been demonstrated in a relevant environment, as determined by the 
    milestone decision authority on the basis of an independent review 
    and assessment by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for Research 
    and Engineering, in consultation with the Deputy Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Developmental Test and Evaluation;
        ``(3) determines in writing that--
            ``(A) the program is affordable when considering the 
        ability of the Department of Defense to accomplish the 
        program's mission using alternative systems;
            ``(B) appropriate trade-offs among cost, schedule, 
        technical feasibility, and performance objectives have been 
        made to ensure that the program is affordable when considering 
        the per unit cost and the total acquisition cost in the context 
        of the total resources available during the period covered by 
        the future-years defense program submitted during the fiscal 
        year in which the certification is made;
            ``(C) reasonable cost and schedule estimates have been 
        developed to execute, with the concurrence of the Director of 
        Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, the product development 
        and production plan under the program; and
            ``(D) funding is available to execute the product 
        development and production plan under the program, through the 
        period covered by the future-years defense program submitted 
        during the fiscal year in which the certification is made, 
        consistent with the estimates described in subparagraph (C) for 
        the program;
            ``(E) appropriate market research has been conducted prior 
        to technology development to reduce duplication of existing 
        technology and products;
            ``(F) the Department of Defense has completed an analysis 
        of alternatives with respect to the program;
            ``(G) the Joint Requirements Oversight Council has 
        accomplished its duties with respect to the program pursuant to 
        section 181(b) of this title, including an analysis of the 
        operational requirements for the program;
            ``(H) life-cycle sustainment planning, including corrosion 
        prevention and mitigation planning, has identified and 
        evaluated relevant sustainment costs throughout development, 
        production, operation, sustainment, and disposal of the 
        program, and any alternatives, and that such costs are 
        reasonable and have been accurately estimated;
            ``(I) an estimate has been made of the requirements for 
        core logistics capabilities and the associated sustaining 
        workloads required to support such requirements;
            ``(J) there is a plan to mitigate and account for any costs 
        in connection with any anticipated de-certification of 
        cryptographic systems and components during the production and 
        procurement of the major defense acquisition program to be 
        acquired;
            ``(K) the program complies with all relevant policies, 
        regulations, and directives of the Department of Defense; and
            ``(L) the Secretary of the military department concerned 
        and the Chief of the armed force concerned concur in the trade-
        offs made in accordance with subparagraph (B); and
        ``(4) in the case of a space system, performs a cost benefit 
    analysis for any new or follow-on satellite system using a 
    dedicated ground control system instead of a shared ground control 
    system, except that no cost benefit analysis is required to be 
    performed under this paragraph for any Milestone B approval of a 
    space system after December 31, 2019.
    ``(b) Changes to Certifications or Determination.--(1) The program 
manager for a major defense acquisition program that has received 
certifications or a determination under subsection (a) shall 
immediately notify the milestone decision authority of any changes to 
the program or a designated major subprogram of such program that--
        ``(A) alter the substantive basis for the certifications or 
    determination of the milestone decision authority relating to any 
    component of such certifications or determination specified in 
    paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a); or
        ``(B) otherwise cause the program or subprogram to deviate 
    significantly from the material provided to the milestone decision 
    authority in support of such certifications or determination.
    ``(2) Upon receipt of information under paragraph (1), the 
milestone decision authority may withdraw the certifications or 
determination concerned or rescind Milestone B approval if the 
milestone decision authority determines that such certifications, 
determination, or approval are no longer valid.
    ``(c) Submission to Congress.--(1) The certifications and 
determination under subsection (a) with respect to a major defense 
acquisition program shall be submitted to the congressional defense 
committees with the first Selected Acquisition Report submitted under 
section 2432 of this title after completion of the certification.
    ``(2) The milestone decision authority shall retain records of the 
basis for the certifications and determination under paragraphs (1), 
(2), and (3) of subsection (a).
    ``(3) At the request of any of the congressional defense 
committees, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the committee an 
explanation of the basis for the certifications and determination under 
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) with respect to a major 
defense acquisition program. The explanation shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    ``(d) Waiver for National Security.--(1) The milestone decision 
authority may, at the time of Milestone B approval or at the time that 
such milestone decision authority withdraws a certification or rescinds 
Milestone B approval pursuant to subsection (b)(2), waive the 
applicability to a major defense acquisition program of one or more 
components (as specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection 
(a)) of the certification and determination requirements if the 
milestone decision authority determines that, but for such a waiver, 
the Department would be unable to meet critical national security 
objectives.
    ``(2) Whenever the milestone decision authority makes such a 
determination and authorizes such a waiver--
        ``(A) the waiver, the waiver determination, and the reasons for 
    the waiver determination shall be submitted in writing to the 
    congressional defense committees within 30 days after the waiver is 
    authorized; and
        ``(B) the milestone decision authority shall review the program 
    not less often than annually to determine the extent to which such 
    program currently satisfies the certification and determination 
    components specified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection 
    (a) until such time as the milestone decision authority determines 
    that the program satisfies all such certification and determination 
    components.
    ``(3) The requirement in paragraph (2)(B) shall not apply to a 
program for which a certification was required pursuant to section 
2433a(c) of this title if the milestone decision authority--
        ``(A) determines in writing that--
            ``(i) the program has reached a stage in the acquisition 
        process at which it would not be practicable to meet the 
        certification component that was waived; and
            ``(ii) the milestone decision authority has taken 
        appropriate alternative actions to address the underlying 
        purposes of such certification component; and
        ``(B) submits the written determination, and an explanation of 
    the basis for the determination, to the congressional defense 
    committees.
    ``(e) Designation of Certification Status in Budget 
Documentation.--Any budget request, budget justification material, 
budget display, reprogramming request, Selected Acquisition Report, or 
other budget documentation or performance report submitted by the 
Secretary of Defense to the President regarding a major defense 
acquisition program receiving a waiver pursuant to subsection (d) shall 
prominently and clearly indicate that such program has not fully 
satisfied the certification requirements of this section until such 
time as the milestone decision authority makes the determination that 
such program has satisfied all such certification requirements.
    ``(f) Nondelegation.--The milestone decision authority may not 
delegate the certification requirement under subsection (a) or the 
authority to waive any component of such requirement under subsection 
(d).
    ``(g) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `major defense acquisition program' means a 
    Department of Defense acquisition program that is a major defense 
    acquisition program for purposes of section 2430 of this title.
        ``(2) The term `designated major subprogram' means a major 
    subprogram of a major defense acquisition program designated under 
    section 2430a(a)(1) of this title.
        ``(3) The term `milestone decision authority', with respect to 
    a major defense acquisition program, means the official within the 
    Department of Defense designated with the overall responsibility 
    and authority for acquisition decisions for the program, including 
    authority to approve entry of the program into the next phase of 
    the acquisition process.
        ``(4) The term `Milestone B approval' has the meaning provided 
    that term in section 2366(e)(7) of this title.
        ``(5) The term `core logistics capabilities' means the core 
    logistics capabilities identified under section 2464(a) of this 
    title.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 2334(a) of title 10, United 
States Code, is amended in paragraph (6)(A)(i) by striking ``any 
certification under'' and inserting ``any decision to grant milestone 
approval pursuant to''.
    SEC. 825. DESIGNATION OF MILESTONE DECISION AUTHORITY.
    (a) In General.--Section 2430 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d)(1) The milestone decision authority for a major defense 
acquisition program reaching Milestone A after October 1, 2016, shall 
be the service acquisition executive of the military department that is 
managing the program, unless the Secretary of Defense designates, under 
paragraph (2), another official to serve as the milestone decision 
authority.
    ``(2) The Secretary of Defense may designate an alternate milestone 
decision authority for a program with respect to which--
        ``(A) the Secretary determines that the program is addressing a 
    joint requirement;
        ``(B) the Secretary determines that the program is best managed 
    by a Defense Agency;
        ``(C) the program has incurred a unit cost increase greater 
    than the significant cost threshold or critical cost threshold 
    under section 2433 of this title;
        ``(D) the program is critical to a major interagency 
    requirement or technology development effort, or has significant 
    international partner involvement; or
        ``(E) the Secretary determines that an alternate official 
    serving as the milestone decision authority will best provide for 
    the program to achieve desired cost, schedule, and performance 
    outcomes.
    ``(3)(A) After designating an alternate milestone decision 
authority under paragraph (2) for a program, the Secretary of Defense 
may revert the position of milestone decision authority for the program 
back to the service acquisition executive upon request of the Secretary 
of the military department concerned. A decision on the request shall 
be made within 180 days after receipt of the request from the Secretary 
of the military department concerned.
    ``(B) If the Secretary of Defense denies the request for reversion 
of the milestone decision authority back to the service acquisition 
executive, the Secretary shall report to the congressional defense 
committees on the basis of the Secretary's decision that an alternate 
official serving as milestone decision authority will best provide for 
the program to achieve desired cost, schedule, and performance 
outcomes. No such reversion is authorized after a program has incurred 
a unit cost increase greater than the significant cost threshold or 
critical cost threshold under section 2433 of this title, except in 
exceptional circumstances.
    ``(4)(A) For each major defense acquisition program, the Secretary 
of the military department concerned and the Chief of the armed force 
concerned shall, in each Selected Acquisition Report required under 
section 2432 of this title, certify that program requirements are 
stable and funding is adequate to meet cost, schedule, and performance 
objectives for the program and identify and report to the congressional 
defense committees on any increased risk to the program since the last 
report.
    ``(B) The Secretary of Defense shall review the acquisition 
oversight process for major defense acquisition programs and shall 
limit outside requirements for documentation to an absolute minimum on 
those programs where the service acquisition executive of the military 
department that is managing the program is the milestone decision 
authority and ensure that any policies, procedures, and activities 
related to oversight efforts conducted outside of the military 
departments with regard to major defense acquisition programs shall be 
implemented in a manner that does not unnecessarily increase program 
costs or impede program schedules.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 133(b)(5) of such title is 
amended by inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, 
except that the Under Secretary shall exercise advisory authority, 
subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of 
Defense, over service acquisition programs for which the service 
acquisition executive is the milestone decision authority''.
    (c) Implementation.--
        (1) Implementation plan.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the congressional defense committees a plan for 
    implementing subsection (d) of section 2430 of title 10, United 
    States Code, as added by subsection (a) of this section.
        (2) Guidance.--The Deputy Chief Management Officer of the 
    Department of Defense, in consultation with the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the service 
    acquisition executives, shall issue guidance to ensure that by not 
    later than October 1, 2016, the acquisition policy, guidance, and 
    practices of the Department of Defense conform to the requirements 
    of subsection (d) of section 2430 of title 10, United States Code, 
    as added by subsection (a) of this section. The guidance shall be 
    designed to ensure a streamlined decisionmaking and approval 
    process and to minimize any information requests, consistent with 
    the requirement of paragraph (4)(A) of such subsection (d).
        (3) Effective date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and 
    (b) shall take effect on October 1, 2016.
    SEC. 826. TENURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF PROGRAM MANAGERS FOR PROGRAM 
      DEFINITION PERIODS.
    (a) Revised Guidance Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
revise Department of Defense guidance for major defense acquisition 
programs to address the tenure and accountability of program managers 
for the program definition period of major defense acquisition 
programs.
    (b) Program Definition Period.--For the purposes of this section, 
the term ``program definition period'', with respect to a major defense 
acquisition program, means the period beginning with initiation of the 
program and ending with Milestone B approval (or Key Decision Point B 
approval in the case of a space program).
    (c) Responsibilities.--The revised guidance required by subsection 
(a) shall provide that the program manager for the program definition 
period of a major defense acquisition program is responsible for--
        (1) bringing technologies to maturity and identifying the 
    manufacturing processes that will be needed to carry out the 
    program;
        (2) ensuring continuing focus during program development on 
    meeting stated mission requirements and other requirements of the 
    Department of Defense;
        (3) recommending trade-offs between program cost, schedule, and 
    performance for the life-cycle of the program;
        (4) developing a business case for the program; and
        (5) ensuring that appropriate information is available to the 
    milestone decision authority to make a decision on Milestone B 
    approval (or Key Decision Point B approval in the case of a space 
    program), including information necessary to make the certification 
    required by section 2366a of title 10, United States Code.
    (d) Qualifications, Resources, and Tenure.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that each program manager for the program 
definition period of a major defense acquisition program--
        (1) has the appropriate management, engineering, technical, and 
    financial expertise needed to meet the responsibilities assigned 
    pursuant to subsection (c);
        (2) is provided the resources and support (including systems 
    engineering expertise, cost-estimating expertise, and software 
    development expertise) needed to meet such responsibilities; and
        (3) is assigned to the program manager position for such 
    program until such time as such program receives Milestone B 
    approval (or Key Decision Point B approval in the case of a space 
    program), unless removed for cause or due to exceptional 
    circumstances.
    (e) Waiver Authority.--The Secretary may waive the requirement in 
paragraph (3) of subsection (d) upon a determination that the program 
definition period will take so long that it would not be appropriate 
for a single individual to serve as program manager for the entire 
period covered by such paragraph.
    SEC. 827. TENURE AND ACCOUNTABILITY OF PROGRAM MANAGERS FOR PROGRAM 
      EXECUTION PERIODS.
    (a) Revised Guidance Required.--Not later than 180 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
revise Department of Defense guidance for major defense acquisition 
programs to address the tenure and accountability of program managers 
for the program execution period of major defense acquisition programs.
    (b) Program Execution Period.--For purposes of this section, the 
term ``program execution period'', with respect to a major defense 
acquisition program, means the period beginning with Milestone B 
approval (or Key Decision Point B approval in the case of a space 
program) and ending with declaration of initial operational capability.
    (c) Responsibilities.--The revised guidance required by subsection 
(a) shall--
        (1) require the program manager for the program execution 
    period of a major defense acquisition program to enter into a 
    performance agreement with the manager's immediate supervisor for 
    such program within six months of assignment, that--
            (A) establishes expected parameters for the cost, schedule, 
        and performance of the program consistent with the business 
        case for the program;
            (B) provides the commitment of the supervisor to provide 
        the level of funding and resources required to meet such 
        parameters; and
            (C) provides the assurance of the program manager that such 
        parameters are achievable and that the program manager will be 
        accountable for meeting such parameters; and
        (2) provide the program manager with the authority to--
            (A) consult on the addition of new program requirements 
        that would be inconsistent with the parameters established in 
        the performance agreement entered into pursuant to paragraph 
        (1);
            (B) recommend trade-offs between cost, schedule, and 
        performance, provided that such trade-offs are consistent with 
        the parameters established in the performance agreement entered 
        into pursuant to paragraph (1); and
            (C) develop such interim goals and milestones as may be 
        required to achieve the parameters established in the 
        performance agreement entered into pursuant to paragraph (1).
    (d) Qualifications, Resources, and Tenure.--The Secretary shall 
ensure that each program manager for the program execution period of a 
defense acquisition program--
        (1) has the appropriate management, engineering, technical, and 
    financial expertise needed to meet the responsibilities assigned 
    pursuant to subsection (c);
        (2) is provided the resources and support (including systems 
    engineering expertise, cost estimating expertise, and software 
    development expertise) needed to meet such responsibilities; and
        (3) is assigned to the program manager position for such 
    program during the program execution period, unless removed for 
    cause or due to exceptional circumstances.
    (e) Waiver Authority.--The immediate supervisor of a program 
manager for a major defense acquisition program may waive the 
requirement in paragraph (3) of subsection (d) upon a determination 
that the program execution period will take so long that it would not 
be appropriate for a single individual to serve as program manager for 
the entire program execution period.
    SEC. 828. PENALTY FOR COST OVERRUNS.
    (a) In General.--For each fiscal year beginning with fiscal year 
2015, the Secretary of each military department shall pay a penalty for 
cost overruns on the covered major defense acquisition programs of the 
military department.
    (b) Calculation of Penalty.--For the purposes of this section:
        (1) The amount of the cost overrun or underrun on any major 
    defense acquisition program or subprogram in a fiscal year is the 
    difference between the current program acquisition unit cost for 
    the program or subprogram and the program acquisition unit cost for 
    the program as shown in the original Baseline Estimate for the 
    program or subprogram, multiplied by the quantity of items to be 
    purchased under the program or subprogram, as reported in the final 
    Selected Acquisition Report for the fiscal year in accordance with 
    section 2432 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Cost overruns or underruns for covered major defense 
    acquisition programs that are joint programs of more than one 
    military department shall be allocated among the military 
    departments in percentages determined by the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics.
        (3) The cumulative amount of cost overruns for a military 
    department in a fiscal year is the sum of the cost overruns and 
    cost underruns for all covered major defense acquisition programs 
    of the department in the fiscal year (including cost overruns or 
    underruns allocated to the military department in accordance with 
    paragraph (2)).
        (4) The cost overrun penalty for a military department in a 
    fiscal year is three percent of the cumulative amount of cost 
    overruns of the military department in the fiscal year, as 
    determined pursuant to paragraph (3), except that the cost overrun 
    penalty may not be a negative amount.
    (c) Transfer of Funds.--
        (1) Reduction of research, development, test, and evaluation 
    accounts.--Not later than 60 days after the end of each fiscal year 
    beginning with fiscal year 2015, the Secretary of each military 
    department shall reduce each research, development, test, and 
    evaluation account of the military department by the percentage 
    determined under paragraph (2), and remit such amount to the 
    Secretary of Defense.
        (2) Determination of amount.--The percentage reduction to 
    research, development, test, and evaluation accounts of a military 
    department referred to in paragraph (1) is the percentage reduction 
    to such accounts necessary to equal the cost overrun penalty for 
    the fiscal year for such department determined pursuant to 
    subsection (b)(4).
        (3) Crediting of funds.--Any amount remitted under paragraph 
    (1) shall be credited to the Rapid Prototyping Fund established 
    pursuant to section 804 of this Act.
    (d) Covered Programs.--A major defense acquisition program is 
covered under this section if the original Baseline Estimate was 
established for such program under paragraph (1) or (2) of section 
2435(d) of title 10, United States Code, on or after May 22, 2009 
(which is the date of the enactment of the Weapon Systems Acquisition 
Reform Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-23)).
    SEC. 829. STREAMLINING OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO 
      ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING 
      REGARDING MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Reporting to Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics Before Milestone B Approval.--Subparagraph 
(A) of paragraph (8) of section 138(b) of title 10, United States Code, 
as amended by section 901(h)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3466), is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``periodically'';
        (2) by striking ``the major defense acquisition programs'' and 
    inserting ``each major defense acquisition program'';
        (3) by inserting ``before the Milestone B approval for that 
    program'' after ``Department of Defense''; and
        (4) by striking ``such reviews and assessments'' and inserting 
    ``such review and assessment''.
    (b) Annual Report to Secretary of Defense and Congressional Defense 
Committees.--Subparagraph (B) of such paragraph is amended by inserting 
``for which a Milestone B approval occurred during the preceding fiscal 
year'' after ``Department of Defense''.
    SEC. 830. CONFIGURATION STEERING BOARDS FOR COST CONTROL UNDER 
      MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    Section 814(c)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4529; 10 U.S.C. 2430 note) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) as 
    subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after ``for the following:'' the following new 
    subparagraph:
            ``(A) Monitoring changes in program requirements and 
        ensuring the Chief of Staff of the Armed Force concerned, in 
        consultation with the Secretary of the military department 
        concerned, approves of any proposed changes that could have an 
        adverse effect on program cost or schedule.''.
    SEC. 831. REPEAL OF REQUIREMENT FOR STAND-ALONE MANPOWER ESTIMATES 
      FOR MAJOR DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Repeal of Requirement.--Subsection (a)(1) of section 2434 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking ``and a manpower 
estimate for the program have'' and inserting ``has''.
    (b) Conforming Amendments Relating to Regulations.--Subsection (b) 
of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (2);
        (2) by striking ``shall require--'' and all that follows 
    through ``that the independent'' and inserting ``shall require that 
    the independent'';
        (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as paragraphs 
    (1) and (2), respectively, and moving those paragraphs, as so 
    redesignated, two ems to the left; and
        (4) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--
            (A) by striking ``and operations and support,'' and 
        inserting ``operations and support, and trained manpower to 
        operate, maintain, and support the program upon full 
        operational deployment,''; and
            (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period.
    (c) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is amended to 
    read as follows:
``Sec. 2434. Independent cost estimates''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 144 of such title is amended by striking the item 
    relating to section 2434 and inserting the following:

``2434. Independent cost estimates.''.
    SEC. 832. REVISION TO DUTIES OF THE DEPUTY ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF 
      DEFENSE FOR DEVELOPMENTAL TEST AND EVALUATION AND THE DEPUTY 
      ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR SYSTEMS ENGINEERING.
     Section 139b of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(5)--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and approve or 
        disapprove''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``in order to advise 
        relevant technical authorities for such programs on the 
        incorporation of best practices for developmental test from 
        across the Department'' after ``in accordance with subsection 
        (c))''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(5)--
            (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and approve''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (C), by inserting ``in order to advise 
        relevant technical authorities for such programs on the 
        incorporation of best practices for systems engineering from 
        across the Department'' after ``programs''.

        Subtitle D--Provisions Relating to Acquisition Workforce

    SEC. 841. AMENDMENTS TO DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE 
      DEVELOPMENT FUND.
    (a) Modifications to Department of Defense Acquisition Workforce 
Development Fund.--Section 1705 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (d)--
            (A) in paragraph (2), by amending subparagraph (C) to read 
        as follows:
            ``(C) For purposes of this paragraph, the applicable 
        percentage for a fiscal year is the percentage that results in 
        the credit to the Fund of $500,000,000 in each fiscal year.'';
            (B) in paragraph (2), in subparagraph (D)--
                (i) by striking ``an amount specified in subparagraph 
            (C)'' and inserting ``the amount specified in subparagraph 
            (C)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``an amount that is less than'' and 
            all that follows through the end and inserting ``an amount 
            that is less than $400,000,000.''; and
            (C) in paragraph (3), by striking ``24-month period'' and 
        inserting ``36-month period'';
        (2) in subsection (f), by striking ``60 days'' and inserting 
    ``120 days''; and
        (3) in subsection (g)--
            (A) by striking paragraph (2);
            (B) by striking ``acquisition workforce positions'' and 
        inserting ``of positions in the acquisition workforce, as 
        defined in subsection (h),'';
            (C) by striking ``Authority.--'' and all that follows 
        through ``For purposes of'' in paragraph (1) and inserting 
        ``Authority.--For purposes of'';
            (D) by striking ``(A)'' and inserting ``(1)'';
            (E) by striking ``(B)'' and inserting ``(2)''; and
            (F) by aligning paragraphs (1) and (2), as designated by 
        subparagraphs (D) and (E), so as to be two ems from the left 
        margin.
    (b) Modifications to Biennial Strategic Workforce Plan.--Section 
115b(d) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``the defense acquisition 
    workforce, including both military and civilian personnel'' and 
    inserting ``the military, civilian, and contractor personnel that 
    directly support the acquisition processes of the Department of 
    Defense, including persons serving in acquisition-related positions 
    designated by the Secretary of Defense under section 1721 of this 
    title'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)(D)--
            (A) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (B) by redesignating clause (ii) as clause (iii); and
            (C) by inserting after clause (i) the following new clause:
            ``(ii) a description of steps that will be taken to address 
        any new or expanded critical skills and competencies the 
        civilian employee workforce will need to address recent trends 
        in defense acquisition, emerging best practices, changes in the 
        Government and commercial marketplace, and new requirements 
        established in law or regulation; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) For the purposes of paragraph (1), contractor personnel shall 
be treated as directly supporting the acquisition processes of the 
Department if, and to the extent that, such contractor personnel 
perform functions in support of personnel in Department of Defense 
positions designated by the Secretary of Defense under section 1721 of 
this title.''.
    SEC. 842. DUAL-TRACK MILITARY PROFESSIONALS IN OPERATIONAL AND 
      ACQUISITION SPECIALITIES.
    (a) Requirement for Chief of Staff Involvement.--Section 1722a(a) 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after 
``military department)'' the following: ``, in collaboration with the 
Chief of Staff of the Army, the Chief of Naval Operations, the Chief of 
Staff of the Air Force, and the Commandant of the Marine Corps (with 
respect to the Army, Navy, Air Force, and Marine Corps, 
respectively),''.
    (b) Dual-track Career Path.--Section 1722a(b) of such title is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs (3) 
    and (4), respectively;
        (2) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``single-track'' before 
    ``career path''; and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) A dual-track career path that attracts the highest 
    quality officers and enlisted personnel and allows them to gain 
    experience in and receive credit for a primary career in combat 
    arms and a functional secondary career in the acquisition field in 
    order to more closely align the military operational, requirements, 
    and acquisition workforces of each armed force.''.
    SEC. 843. PROVISION OF JOINT DUTY ASSIGNMENT CREDIT FOR ACQUISITION 
      DUTY.
    Section 668(a)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking ``or'' at the end of subparagraph (D);
        (2) by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and 
    inserting ``; or''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(F) acquisition matters addressed by military personnel and 
    covered under chapter 87 of this title.''.
    SEC. 844. MANDATORY REQUIREMENT FOR TRAINING RELATED TO THE CONDUCT 
      OF MARKET RESEARCH.
    (a) Mandatory Market Research Training.--Section 2377 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(d) Market Research Training Required.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall provide mandatory training for members of the armed forces and 
employees of the Department of Defense responsible for the conduct of 
market research required under subsection (c). Such mandatory training 
shall, at a minimum--
        ``(1) provide comprehensive information on the subject of 
    market research and the function of market research in the 
    acquisition of commercial items;
        ``(2) teach best practices for conducting and documenting 
    market research; and
        ``(3) provide methodologies for establishing standard processes 
    and reports for collecting and sharing market research across the 
    Department.''.
    (b) Incorporation Into Management Certification Training Mandate.--
The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall ensure that the 
requirements of section 2377(d) of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a), are incorporated into the requirements 
management certification training mandate of the Joint Capabilities 
Integration Development System.
    SEC. 845. INDEPENDENT STUDY OF IMPLEMENTATION OF DEFENSE 
      ACQUISITION WORKFORCE IMPROVEMENT EFFORTS.
    (a) Requirement for Study.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into 
a contract with an independent research entity described in subsection 
(b) to carry out a comprehensive study of the strategic planning of the 
Department of Defense related to the defense acquisition workforce. The 
study shall provide a comprehensive examination of the Department's 
efforts to recruit, develop, and retain the acquisition workforce with 
a specific review of the following:
        (1) The implementation of the Defense Acquisition Workforce 
    Improvement Act (including chapter 87 of title 10, United States 
    Code).
        (2) The application of the Department of Defense Acquisition 
    Workforce Development Fund (as established under section 1705 of 
    title 10, United States Code).
        (3) The effectiveness of professional military education 
    programs, including fellowships and exchanges with industry.
    (b) Independent Research Entity.--The entity described in this 
subsection is an independent research entity that is a not-for-profit 
entity or a federally funded research and development center with 
appropriate expertise and analytical capability.
    (c) Reports.--
        (1) To secretary.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the independent research entity shall 
    provide to the Secretary a report containing--
            (A) the results of the study required by subsection (a); 
        and
            (B) such recommendations to improve the acquisition 
        workforce as the independent research entity considers to be 
        appropriate.
        (2) To congress.--Not later than 30 days after receipt of the 
    report under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    such report, together with any additional views or recommendations 
    of the Secretary, to the congressional defense committees.
    SEC. 846. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR THE CIVILIAN ACQUISITION 
      WORKFORCE PERSONNEL DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Section 1762(g) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 
2020''.
    (b) Technical Amendment.--Such section is further amended by 
striking ``demonstration program'' and inserting ``demonstration 
project''.

          Subtitle E--Provisions Relating to Commercial Items

    SEC. 851. PROCUREMENT OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    (a) Commercial Item Determinations by Department of Defense.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 140 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2380. Commercial item determinations by Department of Defense
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall--
        ``(1) establish and maintain a centralized capability with 
    necessary expertise and resources to oversee the making of 
    commercial item determinations for the purposes of procurements by 
    the Department of Defense; and
        ``(2) provide public access to Department of Defense commercial 
    item determinations for the purposes of procurements by the 
    Department of Defense.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``2380. Commercial item determinations by Department of Defense.''.

    (b) Commercial Item Exception to Submission of Cost and Pricing 
Data.--Section 2306a(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Commercial item determination.--(A) For purposes of 
    applying the commercial item exception under paragraph (1)(B) to 
    the required submission of certified cost or pricing data, the 
    contracting officer may presume that a prior commercial item 
    determination made by a military department, a Defense Agency, or 
    another component of the Department of Defense shall serve as a 
    determination for subsequent procurements of such item.
        ``(B) If the contracting officer does not make the presumption 
    described in subparagraph (A) and instead chooses to proceed with a 
    procurement of an item previously determined to be a commercial 
    item using procedures other than the procedures authorized for the 
    procurement of a commercial item, the contracting officer shall 
    request a review of the commercial item determination by the head 
    of the contracting activity.
        ``(C) Not later than 30 days after receiving a request for 
    review of a commercial item determination under subparagraph (B), 
    the head of a contracting activity shall--
            ``(i) confirm that the prior determination was appropriate 
        and still applicable; or
            ``(ii) issue a revised determination with a written 
        explanation of the basis for the revision.''.
    (c) Definition of Commercial Item.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section shall affect the meaning of the term 
``commercial item'' under subsection (a)(5) of section 2464 of title 
10, United States Code, or any requirement under subsection (a)(3) or 
subsection (c) of such section.
    (d) Regulations Update.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Defense Federal Acquisition Regulation 
Supplement shall be updated to reflect the requirements of this section 
and the amendments made by this section.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section or the 
amendments made by this section shall be construed to preclude the 
contracting officer for the procurement of a commercial item from 
requiring the contractor to supply information that is sufficient to 
determine the reasonableness of price, regardless of whether or not the 
contractor was required to provide such information in connection with 
any earlier procurement.
    SEC. 852. MODIFICATION TO INFORMATION REQUIRED TO BE SUBMITTED BY 
      OFFEROR IN PROCUREMENT OF MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS AS COMMERCIAL 
      ITEMS.
    (a) Requirement for Determination.--Subsection (a) of section 2379 
of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)(B), by inserting ``and'' after the 
    semicolon;
        (2) by striking paragraph (2); and
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
    (b) Treatment of Subsystems as Commercial Items.--Subsection (b) of 
such section is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``only 
    if'' and inserting ``if either'';
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) by striking ``that--'' and all that follows through 
        ``the subsystem is a'' and inserting ``that the subsystem is 
        a'';
            (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; and
            (C) by striking subparagraph (B).
    (c) Treatment of Components as Commercial Items.--Subsection (c)(1) 
of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``title only if'' and inserting ``title if 
    either''; and
        (2) in subparagraph (B)--
            (A) by striking ``that--'' and all that follows through 
        ``the component or'' and inserting ``that the component or'';
            (B) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period; and
            (C) by striking clause (ii).
    (d) Information Submitted.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended to read as follows:
    ``(d) Information Submitted.--(1) To the extent necessary to 
determine the reasonableness of the price for items acquired under this 
section, the contracting officer shall require the offeror to submit--
        ``(A) prices paid for the same or similar commercial items 
    under comparable terms and conditions by both Government and 
    commercial customers;
        ``(B) if the contracting officer determines that the offeror 
    does not have access to and cannot provide sufficient information 
    described in subparagraph (A) to determine the reasonableness of 
    price, information on--
            ``(i) prices for the same or similar items sold under 
        different terms and conditions;
            ``(ii) prices for similar levels of work or effort on 
        related products or services;
            ``(iii) prices for alternative solutions or approaches; and
            ``(iv) other relevant information that can serve as the 
        basis for a price assessment; and
        ``(C) if the contracting officer determines that the 
    information submitted pursuant to subparagraphs (A) and (B) is not 
    sufficient to determine the reasonableness of price, other relevant 
    information regarding the basis for price or cost, including 
    information on labor costs, material costs, and overhead rates.
    ``(2) An offeror may not be required to submit information 
described in paragraph (1)(C) with regard to a commercially available 
off-the-shelf item and may be required to submit such information with 
regard to any other item that was developed exclusively at private 
expense only after the head of the contracting activity determines in 
writing that the information submitted pursuant to paragraphs (1)(A) 
and (1)(B) is not sufficient to determine the reasonableness of 
price.''.
    (e) Conforming Amendment to Truth in Negotiations Act.--Section 
2306a(d)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at 
the end the following new sentence: ``If the contracting officer 
determines that the offeror does not have access to and cannot provide 
sufficient information on prices for the same or similar items to 
determine the reasonableness of price, the contracting officer shall 
require the submission of information on prices for similar levels of 
work or effort on related products or services, prices for alternative 
solutions or approaches, and other information that is relevant to the 
determination of a fair and reasonable price.''.
    SEC. 853. USE OF RECENT PRICES PAID BY THE GOVERNMENT IN THE 
      DETERMINATION OF PRICE REASONABLENESS.
     Section 2306a(b) of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
section 851, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraph:
        ``(5) A contracting officer shall consider evidence provided by 
    an offeror of recent purchase prices paid by the Government for the 
    same or similar commercial items in establishing price 
    reasonableness on a subsequent purchase if the contracting officer 
    is satisfied that the prices previously paid remain a valid 
    reference for comparison after considering the totality of other 
    relevant factors such as the time elapsed since the prior purchase 
    and any differences in the quantities purchased or applicable terms 
    and conditions.''.
    SEC. 854. REPORT ON DEFENSE-UNIQUE LAWS APPLICABLE TO THE 
      PROCUREMENT OF COMMERCIAL ITEMS AND COMMERCIALLY AVAILABLE OFF-
      THE-SHELF ITEMS.
    (a) Report Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report identifying the defense-
unique provisions of law that are applicable for procurement of 
commercial items or commercial off-the-shelf items, both at the prime 
contract and subcontract level. The report--
        (1) shall discuss the impact--
            (A) of limiting the inclusion of clauses in contracts for 
        commercial items or commercial off-the-shelf items to those 
        that are required to implement law or Executive orders or are 
        determined to be consistent with standard commercial practice; 
        and
            (B) of limiting flow down of clauses in subcontracts for 
        commercial items or commercial off the shelf-items to those 
        that are required to implement law or Executive order; and
        (2) shall provide a listing of all standard clauses used in 
    Federal Acquisition Regulation Part 12 contracts, including a 
    justification for the inclusion of each.
    (b) Deadline for Submission.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
be submitted not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
this Act.
    SEC. 855. MARKET RESEARCH AND PREFERENCE FOR COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    (a) Guidance Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall issue guidance to ensure 
that acquisition officials of the Department of Defense fully comply 
with the requirements of section 2377 of title 10, United States Code, 
regarding market research and commercial items. The guidance issued 
pursuant to this subsection shall, at a minimum--
        (1) provide that the head of an agency may not enter into a 
    contract in excess of the simplified acquisition threshold for 
    information technology products or services that are not commercial 
    items unless the head of the agency determines in writing that no 
    commercial items are suitable to meet the agency's needs as 
    provided in subsection (c)(2) of such section; and
        (2) ensure that market research conducted in accordance with 
    subsection (c) of such section is used, where appropriate, to 
    inform price reasonableness determinations.
    (b) Review Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman and the Vice Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense 
for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, shall review Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff Instruction 3170.01, the Manual for the 
Operation of the Joint Capabilities Integration and Development System, 
and other documents governing the requirements development process and 
revise these documents as necessary to ensure that the Department of 
Defense fully complies with the requirement in section 2377(c) of title 
10, United States Code, and section 10.001 of the Federal Acquisition 
Regulation for Federal agencies to conduct appropriate market research 
before developing new requirements.
    (c) Market Research Defined.--For the purposes of this section, the 
term ``market research'' means a review of existing systems, 
subsystems, capabilities, and technologies that are available or could 
be made available to meet the needs of the Department of Defense in 
whole or in part. The review may include any of the techniques for 
conducting market research provided in section 10.002(b)(2) of the 
Federal Acquisition Regulation and shall include, at a minimum, 
contacting knowledgeable individuals in Government and industry 
regarding existing market capabilities.
    SEC. 856. LIMITATION ON CONVERSION OF PROCUREMENTS FROM COMMERCIAL 
      ACQUISITION PROCEDURES.
    (a) Limitation.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), prior to 
    converting the procurement of commercial items or services valued 
    at more than $1,000,000 from commercial acquisition procedures 
    under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation to 
    noncommercial acquisition procedures under part 15 of the Federal 
    Acquisition Regulation, the contracting officer for the procurement 
    shall determine in writing that--
            (A) the earlier use of commercial acquisition procedures 
        under part 12 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation was in 
        error or based on inadequate information; and
            (B) the Department of Defense will realize a cost savings 
        compared to the cost of procuring a similar quantity or level 
        of such item or service using commercial acquisition 
        procedures.
        (2) Requirement for approval of determination by head of 
    contracting activity.--In the case of a procurement valued at more 
    than $100,000,000, a contract may not be awarded pursuant to a 
    conversion of the procurement described in paragraph (1) until--
            (A) the head of the contracting activity approves the 
        determination made under paragraph (1); and
            (B) a copy of the determination so approved is provided to 
        the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
        Technology, and Logistics.
    (b) Factors to Be Considered.--In making a determination under 
paragraph (1), the determining official shall, at a minimum, consider 
the following factors:
        (1) The estimated cost of research and development to be 
    performed by the existing contractor to improve future products or 
    services.
        (2) The transaction costs for the Department of Defense and the 
    contractor in assessing and responding to data requests to support 
    a conversion to noncommercial acquisition procedures.
        (3) Changes in purchase quantities.
        (4) Costs associated with potential procurement delays 
    resulting from the conversion.
    (c) Procedures.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall develop 
procedures to track conversions of future contracts and subcontracts 
for improved analysis and reporting and shall revise the Defense 
Federal Acquisition Regulation Supplement to reflect the requirement in 
subsection (a).
    (d) Reporting Requirement.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a report on the implementation of 
subsection (a), including any procurements converted as described in 
that subsection.
    (e) Sunset.--The requirements of this section shall terminate 5 
years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 857. TREATMENT OF GOODS AND SERVICES PROVIDED BY 
      NONTRADITIONAL DEFENSE CONTRACTORS AS COMMERCIAL ITEMS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 140 of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 851, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 2380A. Treatment of goods and services provided by 
     nontraditional defense contractors as commercial items
    ``Notwithstanding section 2376(1) of this title, items and services 
provided by nontraditional defense contractors (as that term is defined 
in section 2302(9) of this title) may be treated by the head of an 
agency as commercial items for purposes of this chapter.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 140 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2380, as added by section 851, the following new 
item:

``2380A. Treatment of goods and services provided by nontraditional 
          defense contractors as commercial items.''.

                  Subtitle F--Industrial Base Matters

    SEC. 861. AMENDMENT TO MENTOR-PROTEGE PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--Section 831 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1607; 10 U.S.C. 
2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``designed to enhance'' and 
    all that follows through the period at the end and inserting the 
    following: ``designed to--
    ``(1) enhance the capabilities of disadvantaged small business 
concerns to perform as subcontractors and suppliers under Department of 
Defense contracts and other contracts and subcontracts; and
    ``(2) increase the participation of such business concerns as 
subcontractors and suppliers under Department of Defense contracts, 
other Federal Government contracts, and commercial contracts.'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``to receive such 
    assistance at any time'' and inserting ``concurrently, and the 
    authority to enter into agreements under subsection (e) shall only 
    be available to such concern during the 5-year period beginning on 
    the date such concern enters into the first such agreement'';
        (3) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as clauses (i) 
        and (ii), respectively (and conforming the margins 
        accordingly); and
            (B) by inserting before clause (i) (as so redesignated) the 
        following:
        ``(1) the mentor firm is not affiliated with the protege firm 
    prior to the approval of that agreement; and
        ``(2) the mentor firm demonstrates that it--
            ``(A) is qualified to provide assistance that will 
        contribute to the purpose of the program;
            ``(B) is of good financial health and character and does 
        not appear on a Federal list of debarred or suspended 
        contractors; and
            ``(C) can impart value to a protege firm because of 
        experience gained as a Department of Defense contractor or 
        through knowledge of general business operations and government 
        contracting, as demonstrated by evidence that--'';
        (4) by amending subsection (e)(1) to read as follows:
        ``(1) A developmental program for the protege firm, in such 
    detail as may be reasonable, including--
            ``(A) factors to assess the protege firm's developmental 
        progress under the program;
            ``(B) a description of the quantitative and qualitative 
        benefits to the Department of Defense from the agreement, if 
        applicable; and
            ``(C) goals for additional awards that protege firm can 
        compete for outside the Mentor-Protege Program.'';
        (5) in subsection (f)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``business 
        development,'';
            (B) by striking paragraph (6); and
            (C) by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (6);
        (6) in subsection (g)--
            (A) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``paragraphs (1) 
            and (7) of subsection (f)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (1) 
            and (6) of subsection (f) (except as provided in 
            subparagraph (D))'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``under 
            subsection (l)(2)''; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
        ``(D) The Secretary may not reimburse any fee assessed by the 
    mentor firm for services provided to the protege firm pursuant to 
    subsection (f)(6) or for business development expenses incurred by 
    the mentor firm under a contract awarded to the mentor firm while 
    participating in a joint venture with the protege firm.''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3)(B)(i), by striking ``subsection 
        (f)(7)'' and inserting ``subsection (f)(6)'';
        (7) in subsection (h)(1), by inserting ``(15 U.S.C. 631 et 
    seq.)'' after ``Small Business Act'';
        (8) in subsection (j)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``September 30, 2015'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2018''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``September 30, 2018'' 
        and inserting ``September 30, 2021'';
        (9) by redesignating subsection (l) as subsection (n);
        (10) by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(l) Report by Mentor Firms.--To comply with section 8(d)(7) of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(7)), each mentor firm shall 
submit a report to the Secretary not less than once each fiscal year 
that includes, for the preceding fiscal year--
        ``(1) all technical or management assistance provided by mentor 
    firm personnel for the purposes described in subsection (f)(1);
        ``(2) any new awards of subcontracts on a competitive or 
    noncompetitive basis to the protege firm under Department of 
    Defense contracts or other contracts, including the value of such 
    subcontracts;
        ``(3) any extensions, increases in the scope of work, or 
    additional payments not previously reported for prior awards of 
    subcontracts on a competitive or noncompetitive basis to the 
    protege firm under Department of Defense contracts or other 
    contracts, including the value of such subcontracts;
        ``(4) the amount of any payment of progress payments or advance 
    payments made to the protege firm for performance under any 
    subcontract made under the Mentor-Protege Program;
        ``(5) any loans made by mentor firm to the protege firm;
        ``(6) all Federal contracts awarded to the mentor firm and the 
    protege firm as a joint venture, designating whether the award was 
    a restricted competition or a full and open competition;
        ``(7) any assistance obtained by the mentor firm for the 
    protege firm from one or more--
            ``(A) small business development centers established 
        pursuant to section 21 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
        648);
            ``(B) entities providing procurement technical assistance 
        pursuant to chapter 142 of title 10, United States Code; or
            ``(C) historically Black colleges or universities or 
        minority institutions of higher education;
        ``(8) whether there have been any changes to the terms of the 
    mentor-protege agreement; and
        ``(9) a narrative describing the success assistance provided 
    under subsection (f) has had in addressing the developmental needs 
    of the protege firm, the impact on Department of Defense contracts, 
    and addressing any problems encountered.
    ``(m) Review of Report by the Office of Small Business Programs.--
The Office of Small Business Programs of the Department of Defense 
shall review the report required by subsection (l) and, if the Office 
finds that the mentor-protege agreement is not furthering the purpose 
of the Mentor-Protege Program, decide not to approve any continuation 
of the agreement.''; and
        (11) in subsection (n) (as so redesignated)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``means a business 
        concern that meets the requirements of section 3(a) of the 
        Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632(a)) and the regulations 
        promulgated pursuant thereto'' and inserting ``has the meaning 
        given such term under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 
        U.S.C. 632)'';
            (B) in paragraph (2)--
                (i) by striking ``means:'' and inserting ``means a firm 
            that has less than half the size standard corresponding to 
            its primary North American Industry Classification System 
            code, is not owned or managed by individuals or entities 
            that directly or indirectly have stock options or 
            convertible securities in the mentor firm, and is--'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``the severely 
            disabled'' and inserting ``severely disabled individuals'';
                (iii) in subparagraph (G), by striking ``Small Business 
            Act.'' and inserting ``Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
            632(p)); or''; and
                (iv) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraph:
            ``(H) a small business concern that--
                ``(i) is a nontraditional defense contractor, as such 
            term is defined in section 2302 of title 10, United States 
            Code; or
                ``(ii) currently provides goods or services in the 
            private sector that are critical to enhancing the 
            capabilities of the defense supplier base and fulfilling 
            key Department of Defense needs.'';
            (C) by amending paragraph (8) to read as follows:
        ``(8) The term `severely disabled individual' means an 
    individual who is blind (as defined in section 8501 of title 41, 
    United States Code) or a severely disabled individual (as defined 
    in such section).''; and
            (D) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(9) The term `affiliated', with respect to the relationship 
    between a mentor firm and a protege firm, means--
            ``(A) the mentor firm shares, directly or indirectly, with 
        the protege firm ownership or management of the protege firm;
            ``(B) the mentor firm has an agreement, at the time the 
        mentor firm enters into a mentor-protege agreement under 
        subsection (e), to merge with the protege firm;
            ``(C) the owners and managers of the mentor firm are the 
        parent, child, spouse, sibling, aunt, uncle, niece, nephew, 
        grandparent, grandchild, or first cousin of an owner or manager 
        of the protege firm;
            ``(D) the mentor firm has, during the 2-year period before 
        entering into a mentor-protege agreement, employed any officer, 
        director, principal stock holder, managing member, or key 
        employee of the protege firm;
            ``(E) the mentor firm has engaged in a joint venture with 
        the protege firm during the 2-year period before entering into 
        a mentor-protege agreement, unless such joint venture was 
        approved by the Small Business Administration prior to making 
        any offer on a contract;
            ``(F) the mentor firm is, directly or indirectly, the 
        primary party providing contracts to the protege firm, as 
        measured by the dollar value of the contracts; and
            ``(G) the Small Business Administration has made a 
        determination of affiliation or control under subsection 
        (h).''.
    (b) Application.--
        (1) In general.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
    apply to a mentor-protege agreement made pursuant to section 831 of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public 
    Law 101-510; 104 Stat. 1607; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) entered into 
    after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
        (2) Retroactivity of report and review requirements.--The 
    amendments made by subsection (a)(10) shall apply to a mentor-
    protege agreement made pursuant to section 831 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1991 (Public Law 101-510; 
    104 Stat. 1607; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) entered into before, on, or 
    after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.
    SEC. 862. AMENDMENTS TO DATA QUALITY IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
    (a) In General.--Section 15(s) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
644(s)) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (6); and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
    paragraphs:
        ``(4) Implementation.--Not later than October 1, 2016, the 
    Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall implement 
    the plan described in this subsection.
        ``(5) Certification.--The Administrator shall annually provide 
    to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
    Senate a certification of the accuracy and completeness of data 
    reported on bundled and consolidated contracts.''.
    (b) GAO Study.--
        (1) Study.--Not later than October 1, 2017, the Comptroller 
    General of the United States shall initiate a study on the 
    effectiveness of the plan described in section 15(s) of the Small 
    Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(s)) that shall assess whether contracts 
    were accurately labeled as bundled or consolidated.
        (2) Contracts evaluated.--For the purposes of conducting the 
    study described in paragraph (1), the Comptroller General of the 
    United States--
            (A) shall evaluate, for work in each of sectors 23, 33, 54, 
        and 56 (as defined by the North American Industry 
        Classification System), not fewer than 100 contracts in each 
        sector;
            (B) shall evaluate only those contracts--
                (i) awarded by an agency listed in section 901(b) of 
            title 31, United States Code; and
                (ii) that have a Base and Exercised Options Value, an 
            Action Obligation, or a Base and All Options Value (as such 
            terms are defined in the Federal Procurement Data System 
            described in section 1122(a)(4)(A) of title 41, United 
            States Code, or any successor system); and
            (C) shall not evaluate contracts that have used any set-
        aside authority.
        (3) Report.--Not later than 12 months after initiating the 
    study required by paragraph (1), the Comptroller General of the 
    United States shall report to the Committee on Small Business of 
    the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small Business 
    and Entrepreneurship of the Senate on the results from such study 
    and, if warranted, any recommendations on how to improve the 
    quality of data reported on bundled and consolidated contracts.
    SEC. 863. NOTICE OF CONTRACT CONSOLIDATION FOR ACQUISITION 
      STRATEGIES.
    (a) Notice Requirement for the Head of a Contracting Agency.--
Section 15(e)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(e)(3)) is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(3) Strategy specifications.--If the head of a contracting 
    agency determines that an acquisition plan for a procurement 
    involves a substantial bundling of contract requirements, the head 
    of a contracting agency shall publish a notice on a public website 
    that such determination has been made not later than 7 days after 
    making such determination. Any solicitation for a procurement 
    related to the acquisition plan may not be published earlier than 7 
    days after such notice is published. Along with the publication of 
    the solicitation, the head of a contracting agency shall publish a 
    justification for the determination, which shall include the 
    following information:
            ``(A) The specific benefits anticipated to be derived from 
        the bundling of contract requirements and a determination that 
        such benefits justify the bundling.
            ``(B) An identification of any alternative contracting 
        approaches that would involve a lesser degree of bundling of 
        contract requirements.
            ``(C) An assessment of--
                ``(i) the specific impediments to participation by 
            small business concerns as prime contractors that result 
            from the bundling of contract requirements; and
                ``(ii) the specific actions designed to maximize 
            participation of small business concerns as subcontractors 
            (including suppliers) at various tiers under the contract 
            or contracts that are awarded to meet the requirements.''.
    (b) Notice Requirement for the Senior Procurement Executive or 
Chief Acquisition Officer.--Section 44(c)(2) of the Small Business Act 
(15 U.S.C. 657q(c)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) Notice.--Not later than 7 days after making a 
        determination that an acquisition strategy involving a 
        consolidation of contract requirements is necessary and 
        justified under subparagraph (A), the senior procurement 
        executive or Chief Acquisition Officer shall publish a notice 
        on a public website that such determination has been made. Any 
        solicitation for a procurement related to the acquisition 
        strategy may not be published earlier than 7 days after such 
        notice is published. Along with the publication of the 
        solicitation, the senior procurement executive or Chief 
        Acquisition Officer shall publish a justification for the 
        determination, which shall include the information in 
        subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1).''.
    (c) Technical Amendment.--Section 44(c)(1) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 657q(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``Subject to 
paragraph (4), the head'' and inserting ``The head''.
    SEC. 864. CLARIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO SMALL BUSINESS 
      CONTRACTS FOR SERVICES.
    (a) Procurement Contracts.--Section 8(a)(17) of the Small Business 
Act (15 U.S.C. 637(a)(17)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``any procurement 
    contract'' and all that follows through ``section 15'' and 
    inserting ``any procurement contract, which contract has as its 
    principal purpose the supply of a product to be let pursuant to 
    this subsection, subsection (m), section 15(a), section 31, or 
    section 36,''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(C) Limitation.--This paragraph shall not apply to a contract 
    that has as its principal purpose the acquisition of services or 
    construction.''.
    (b) Subcontractor Contracts.--Section 46(a)(4) of the Small 
Business Act (15 U.S.C. 657s(a)(4)) is amended by striking ``for 
supplies from a regular dealer in such supplies'' and inserting ``which 
is principally for supplies from a regular dealer in such supplies, and 
which is not a contract principally for services or construction''.
    SEC. 865. CERTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS FOR BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY 
      SPECIALISTS, COMMERCIAL MARKET REPRESENTATIVES, AND PROCUREMENT 
      CENTER REPRESENTATIVES.
    (a) Business Opportunity Specialist Requirements.--
        (1) In general.--Section 4 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    633) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Certification Requirements for Business Opportunity 
Specialists.--
        ``(1) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
    paragraph (2), a Business Opportunity Specialist described under 
    section 7(j)(10)(D) shall have a Level I Federal Acquisition 
    Certification in Contracting (or any successor certification) or 
    the equivalent Department of Defense certification, except that a 
    Business Opportunity Specialist who was serving on or before 
    January 3, 2013, may continue to serve as a Business Opportunity 
    Specialist for a period of 5 years beginning on such date without 
    such a certification.
        ``(2) Delay of certification requirement.--
            ``(A) Timing.--The certification described in paragraph (1) 
        is not required for any person serving as a Business 
        Opportunity Specialist until the date that is one calendar year 
        after the date such person is appointed as a Business 
        Opportunity Specialist.
            ``(B) Application.--The requirements of subparagraph (A) 
        shall--
                ``(i) be included in any initial job posting for the 
            position of a Business Opportunity Specialist; and
                ``(ii) apply to any person appointed as a Business 
            Opportunity Specialist after January 3, 2013.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 7(j)(10)(D)(i) of such Act 
    (15 U.S.C. 636(j)(10)(D)(i)) is amended by striking the second 
    sentence.
    (b) Commercial Market Representative Requirements.--Section 4 of 
the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 633), as amended by subsection 
(a)(1), is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(h) Certification Requirements for Commercial Market 
Representatives.--
        ``(1) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
    paragraph (2), a commercial market representative referred to in 
    section 15(q)(3) shall have a Level I Federal Acquisition 
    Certification in Contracting (or any successor certification) or 
    the equivalent Department of Defense certification, except that a 
    commercial market representative who was serving on or before the 
    date of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016 may continue to serve as a commercial market 
    representative for a period of 5 years beginning on such date 
    without such a certification.
        ``(2) Delay of certification requirement.--
            ``(A) Timing.--The certification described in paragraph (1) 
        is not required for any person serving as a commercial market 
        representative until the date that is one calendar year after 
        the date such person is appointed as a commercial market 
        representative.
            ``(B) Application.--The requirements of subparagraph (A) 
        shall--
                ``(i) be included in any initial job posting for the 
            position of a commercial market representative; and
                ``(ii) apply to any person appointed as a commercial 
            market representative after the date of the enactment of 
            the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
            2016.''.
    (c) Procurement Center Representative Requirements.--Section 
15(l)(5) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(l)(5)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by amending clause (iii) to read as 
    follows:
                ``(iii) have the certification described in 
            subparagraph (C).''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) Certification requirements.--
                ``(i) In general.--Consistent with the requirements of 
            clause (ii), a procurement center representative shall have 
            a Level III Federal Acquisition Certification in 
            Contracting (or any successor certification) or the 
            equivalent Department of Defense certification, except that 
            any person serving in such a position on or before January 
            3, 2013, may continue to serve in that position for a 
            period of 5 years without the required certification.
                ``(ii) Delay of certification requirements.--

                    ``(I) Timing.--The certification described in 
                clause (i) is not required for any person serving as a 
                procurement center representative until the date that 
                is one calendar year after the date such person is 
                appointed as a procurement center representative.
                    ``(II) Application.--The requirements of subclause 
                (I) shall--

                        ``(aa) be included in any initial job posting 
                    for the position of a procurement center 
                    representative; and
                        ``(bb) apply to any person appointed as a 
                    procurement center representative after January 3, 
                    2013.''.
    SEC. 866. MODIFICATIONS TO REQUIREMENTS FOR QUALIFIED HUBZONE SMALL 
      BUSINESS CONCERNS LOCATED IN A BASE CLOSURE AREA.
    (a) In General.--Section 3(p) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
632(p)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``or'';
            (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(F) qualified disaster areas.'';
        (2) in paragraph (3)--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (D) and (E) as 
        subparagraphs (E) and (F), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after subparagraph (C) the following:
            ``(D) a small business concern--
                ``(i) that is wholly owned by one or more Native 
            Hawaiian Organizations (as defined in section 8(a)(15)), or 
            by a corporation that is wholly owned by one or more Native 
            Hawaiian Organizations; or
                ``(ii) that is owned in part by one or more Native 
            Hawaiian Organizations, or by a corporation that is wholly 
            owned by one or more Native Hawaiian Organizations, if all 
            other owners are either United States citizens or small 
            business concerns;'';
        (3) in paragraph (4)--
            (A) by amending subparagraph (D) to read as follows:
            ``(D) Base closure area.--
                ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), the term 
            `base closure area' means--

                    ``(I) lands within the external boundaries of a 
                military installation that were closed through a 
                privatization process under the authority of--

                        ``(aa) the Defense Base Closure and Realignment 
                    Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of division B of 
                    Public Law 101-510; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note);
                        ``(bb) title II of the Defense Authorization 
                    Amendments and Base Closure and Realignment Act 
                    (Public Law 100-526; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note);
                        ``(cc) section 2687 of title 10, United States 
                    Code; or
                        ``(dd) any other provision of law authorizing 
                    or directing the Secretary of Defense or the 
                    Secretary of a military department to dispose of 
                    real property at the military installation for 
                    purposes relating to base closures of 
                    redevelopment, while retaining the authority to 
                    enter into a leaseback of all or a portion of the 
                    property for military use;

                    ``(II) the census tract or nonmetropolitan county 
                in which the lands described in subclause (I) are 
                wholly contained;
                    ``(III) a census tract or nonmetropolitan county 
                the boundaries of which intersect the area described in 
                subclause (I); and
                    ``(IV) a census tract or nonmetropolitan county the 
                boundaries of which are contiguous to the area 
                described in subclause (II) or subclause (III).

                ``(ii) Limitation.--A base closure area shall be 
            treated as a HUBZone--

                    ``(I) with respect to a census tract or 
                nonmetropolitan county described in clause (i), for a 
                period of not less than 8 years, beginning on the date 
                the military installation undergoes final closure and 
                ending on the date the Administrator makes a final 
                determination as to whether or not to implement the 
                applicable designation described in subparagraph (A) or 
                (B) in accordance with the results of the decennial 
                census conducted after the area was initially 
                designated as a base closure area; and
                    ``(II) if such area was treated as a HUBZone at any 
                time after 2010, until such time as the Administrator 
                makes a final determination as to whether or not to 
                implement the applicable designation described in 
                subparagraph (A) or (B), after the 2020 decennial 
                census.

                ``(iii) Definitions.--In this subparagraph:

                    ``(I) Census tract.--The term `census tract' means 
                a census tract delineated by the United States Bureau 
                of the Census in the most recent decennial census that 
                is not located in a nonmetropolitan county and does not 
                otherwise qualify as a qualified census tract.
                    ``(II) Nonmetropolitan county.--The term 
                `nonmetropolitan county' means a county that was not 
                located in a metropolitan statistical area (as defined 
                in section 143(k)(2)(B) of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986) at the time of the most recent census taken for 
                purposes of selecting qualified census tracts and does 
                not otherwise qualify as a qualified nonmetropolitan 
                county.''; and

            (B) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(E) Qualified disaster area.--
                ``(i) In general.--Subject to clause (ii), the term 
            `qualified disaster area' means any census tract or 
            nonmetropolitan county located in an area for which the 
            President has declared a major disaster under section 401 
            of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency 
            Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) or located in an area in 
            which a catastrophic incident has occurred if such census 
            tract or nonmetropolitan county ceased to be qualified 
            under subparagraph (A) or (B), as applicable, during the 
            period beginning 5 years before the date on which the 
            President declared the major disaster or the catastrophic 
            incident occurred and ending 2 years after such date, 
            except that such census tract or nonmetropolitan county may 
            be a `qualified disaster area' only--

                    ``(I) in the case of a major disaster declared by 
                the President, during the 5-year period beginning on 
                the date on which the President declared the major 
                disaster for the area in which the census tract or 
                nonmetropolitan county, as applicable, is located; and
                    ``(II) in the case of a catastrophic incident, 
                during the 10-year period beginning on the date on 
                which the catastrophic incident occurred in the area in 
                which the census tract or nonmetropolitan county, as 
                applicable, is located.

                ``(ii) Limitation.--A qualified disaster area described 
            in clause (i) shall be treated as a HUBZone for a period of 
            not less than 8 years, beginning on the date the 
            Administrator makes a final determination as to whether or 
            not to implement the designations described in 
            subparagraphs (A) and (B) in accordance with the results of 
            the decennial census conducted after the area was initially 
            designated as a qualified disaster area.''; and
        (4) in paragraph (5)(A)(i)(I)--
            (A) in item (aa)--
                (i) by striking ``subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), or 
            (E) of paragraph (3)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (A), 
            (B), (C), (D), (E), or (F) of paragraph (3)''; and
                (ii) by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (B) by redesignating item (bb) as item (cc); and
            (C) by inserting after item (aa) the following new item:
                        ``(bb) pursuant to subparagraph (A), (B), (C), 
                    (D), (E), or (F) of paragraph (3), that its 
                    principal office is located within a base closure 
                    area and that not fewer than 35 percent of its 
                    employees reside in such base closure area or in 
                    another HUBZone; or''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendments made by subsection (a)(3)(B) 
shall apply to a major disaster declared by the President under section 
401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance 
Act (42 U.S.C. 5170) or a catastrophic incident that occurs on or after 
the date of enactment of such subsection.
    (c) Including FEMA in Agencies That May Provide Data for HUBZone 
Program.--Section 31(c)(3) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
657a(c)(3)) is amended by inserting ``the Administrator of the Federal 
Emergency Management Agency,'' after ``the Secretary of Labor,''.
    (d) GAO Study of Improvement to Oversight of the HUBZone Program.--
Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall complete a study on and 
submit a report to the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship of the Senate that includes--
        (1) an assessment of the evaluation process, including any 
    weaknesses in the process, used by the Small Business 
    Administration to approve or deny participation in the HUBZone 
    program established under section 31 of the Small Business Act (15 
    U.S.C. 657a);
        (2) an assessment of the oversight of HUBZone program 
    participants by the Small Business Administration, including 
    Administration actions taken to prevent fraud, waste, and abuse; 
    and
        (3) recommendations on how to improve the evaluation process 
    and oversight mechanisms to further reduce fraud, waste, and abuse.
    SEC. 867. JOINT VENTURING AND TEAMING.
    (a) Joint Venture Offers for Bundled or Consolidated Contracts.--
Section 15(e)(4) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(e)(4)) is 
amended to read as follows:
        ``(4) Contract teaming.--
            ``(A) In general.--In the case of a solicitation of offers 
        for a bundled or consolidated contract that is issued by the 
        head of an agency, a small business concern that provides for 
        use of a particular team of subcontractors or a joint venture 
        of small business concerns may submit an offer for the 
        performance of the contract.
            ``(B) Evaluation of offers.--The head of the agency shall 
        evaluate an offer described in subparagraph (A) in the same 
        manner as other offers, with due consideration to the 
        capabilities of all of the proposed subcontractors or members 
        of the joint venture as follows:
                ``(i) Teams.--When evaluating an offer of a small 
            business prime contractor that includes a proposed team of 
            small business subcontractors, the head of the agency shall 
            consider the capabilities and past performance of each 
            first tier subcontractor that is part of the team as the 
            capabilities and past performance of the small business 
            prime contractor.
                ``(ii) Joint ventures.--When evaluating an offer of a 
            joint venture of small business concerns, if the joint 
            venture does not demonstrate sufficient capabilities or 
            past performance to be considered for award of a contract 
            opportunity, the head of the agency shall consider the 
            capabilities and past performance of each member of the 
            joint venture as the capabilities and past performance of 
            the joint venture.
            ``(C) Status as a small business concern.--Participation of 
        a small business concern in a team or a joint venture under 
        this paragraph shall not affect the status of that concern as a 
        small business concern for any other purpose.''.
    (b) Team and Joint Ventures Offers for Multiple Award Contracts.--
Section 15(q)(1) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 644(q)(1)) is amended--
        (1) in the heading, by inserting ``and joint venture'' before 
    ``requirements'';
        (2) by striking ``Each Federal agency'' and inserting the 
    following:
            ``(A) In general.--Each Federal agency''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(B) Teams.--When evaluating an offer of a small business 
        prime contractor that includes a proposed team of small 
        business subcontractors for any multiple award contract above 
        the substantial bundling threshold of the Federal agency, the 
        head of the agency shall consider the capabilities and past 
        performance of each first tier subcontractor that is part of 
        the team as the capabilities and past performance of the small 
        business prime contractor.
            ``(C) Joint ventures.--When evaluating an offer of a joint 
        venture of small business concerns for any multiple award 
        contract above the substantial bundling threshold of the 
        Federal agency, if the joint venture does not demonstrate 
        sufficient capabilities or past performance to be considered 
        for award of a contract opportunity, the head of the agency 
        shall consider the capabilities and past performance of each 
        member of the joint venture as the capabilities and past 
        performance of the joint venture.''.
    SEC. 868. MODIFICATION TO AND SCORECARD PROGRAM FOR SMALL BUSINESS 
      CONTRACTING GOALS.
    (a) Amendment to Governmentwide Goal for Small Business 
Participation in Procurement Contracts.--Section 15(g)(1)(A)(i) of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(A)(i)) is amended by adding at 
the end the following: ``In meeting this goal, the Government shall 
ensure the participation of small business concerns from a wide variety 
of industries and from a broad spectrum of small business concerns 
within each industry.''.
    (b) Scorecard Program for Evaluating Federal Agency Compliance With 
Small Business Contracting Goals.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2016, the 
    Administrator of the Small Business Administration, in consultation 
    with the Federal agencies, shall--
            (A) develop a methodology for calculating a score to be 
        used to evaluate the compliance of each Federal agency with 
        meeting the goals established pursuant to section 15(g)(1)(B) 
        of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(B)) based on 
        each such goal; and
            (B) develop a scorecard based on such methodology.
        (2) Use of scorecard.--Beginning in fiscal year 2017, the 
    Administrator shall establish and carry out a program to use the 
    scorecard developed under paragraph (1) to evaluate whether each 
    Federal agency is creating the maximum practicable opportunities 
    for the award of prime contracts and subcontracts to small business 
    concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by service-
    disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small 
    business concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
    disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned and 
    controlled by women, by assigning a score to each Federal agency 
    for the previous fiscal year.
        (3) Contents of scorecard.--The scorecard developed under 
    paragraph (1) shall include, for each Federal agency, the following 
    information:
            (A) A determination of whether the Federal agency met each 
        of the prime contract goals established pursuant to section 
        15(g)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(B)) 
        with respect to small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, 
        qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
        disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by women.
            (B) A determination of whether the Federal agency met each 
        of the subcontract goals established pursuant to such section 
        with respect to small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, 
        qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
        disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by women.
            (C) The number of small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, 
        qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
        disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by women awarded prime contracts in each North 
        American Industry Classification System code during the fiscal 
        year and a comparison to the number of awarded contracts during 
        the prior fiscal year, if available.
            (D) The number of small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, 
        qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
        disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by women awarded subcontracts in each North 
        American Industry Classification System code during the fiscal 
        year and a comparison to the number of awarded subcontracts 
        during the prior fiscal year, if available.
            (E) Any other factors that the Administrator deems 
        important to achieve the maximum practicable utilization of 
        small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
        controlled by service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone 
        small business concerns, small business concerns owned and 
        controlled by socially and economically disadvantaged 
        individuals, and small business concerns owned and controlled 
        by women.
        (4) Weighted factors.--In using the scorecard to evaluate and 
    assign a score to a Federal agency, the Administrator shall base--
            (A) fifty percent of the score on the dollar value of prime 
        contracts described in paragraph (3)(A); and
            (B) fifty percent of the score on the information provided 
        in subparagraphs (B) through (E) of paragraph (3), weighted in 
        a manner determined by the Administrator to encourage the 
        maximum practicable opportunity for the award of prime 
        contracts and subcontracts to small business concerns, small 
        business concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled 
        veterans, qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small 
        business concerns owned and controlled by socially and 
        economically disadvantaged individuals, and small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by women.
        (5) Publication.--The scorecard used by the Administrator under 
    this subsection shall be submitted to the President and Congress 
    along with the report submitted under section 15(h)(2) of the Small 
    Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(h)(2)).
        (6) Report.--After the Administrator uses the scorecard for 
    fiscal year 2018 to assign scores to Federal agencies, but not 
    later than March 31, 2019, the Administrator shall submit a report 
    to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives 
    and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the 
    Senate. Such report shall include the following:
            (A) A description of any increase in the dollar amount of 
        prime contracts and subcontracts awarded to small business 
        concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by 
        service-disabled veterans, qualified HUBZone small business 
        concerns, small business concerns owned and controlled by 
        socially and economically disadvantaged individuals, and small 
        business concerns owned and controlled by women.
            (B) A description of any increase in the dollar amount of 
        prime contracts and subcontracts, and the total number of 
        contracts, awarded to small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, 
        qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business 
        concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
        disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns owned 
        and controlled by women in each North American Industry 
        Classification System code.
            (C) The recommendation of the Administrator on continuing, 
        modifying, expanding, or terminating the program established 
        under this subsection.
        (7) GAO report on scorecard methodology.--Not later than 
    September 30, 2018, the Comptroller General of the United States 
    shall submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and 
    Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report that--
            (A) evaluates whether the methodology used to calculate a 
        score under this subsection accurately and effectively--
                (i) measures the compliance of each Federal agency with 
            meeting the goals established pursuant to section 
            15(g)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
            644(g)(1)(B)); and
                (ii) encourages Federal agencies to expand 
            opportunities for small business concerns, small business 
            concerns owned and controlled by service-disabled veterans, 
            qualified HUBZone small business concerns, small business 
            concerns owned and controlled by socially and economically 
            disadvantaged individuals, and small business concerns 
            owned and controlled by women to compete for and be awarded 
            Federal procurement contracts across North American 
            Industry Classification System codes; and
            (B) if warranted, makes recommendations on how to improve 
        such methodology to improve its accuracy and effectiveness.
        (8) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
            (B) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``agency'' by section 551(1) of title 5, 
        United States Code, but does not include the United States 
        Postal Service or the Government Accountability Office.
            (C) Scorecard.--The term ``scorecard'' shall mean any 
        summary using a rating system to evaluate a Federal agency's 
        efforts to meet goals established under section 15(g)(1)(B) of 
        the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(g)(1)(B)) that--
                (i) includes the measures described in paragraph (3); 
            and
                (ii) assigns a score to each Federal agency evaluated.
            (D) Small business act definitions.--
                (i) In general.--The terms ``small business concern'', 
            ``small business concern owned and controlled by service-
            disabled veterans'', ``qualified HUBZone small business 
            concern'', and ``small business concern owned and 
            controlled by women'' have the meanings given such terms 
            under section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
                (ii) Small business concerns owned and controlled by 
            socially and economically disadvantaged individuals.--The 
            term ``small business concern owned and controlled by 
            socially and economically disadvantaged individuals'' has 
            the meaning given that term under section 8(d)(3)(C) of the 
            Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 637(d)(3)(C)).
    SEC. 869. ESTABLISHMENT OF AN OFFICE OF HEARINGS AND APPEALS IN THE 
      SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION; PETITIONS FOR RECONSIDERATION OF 
      SIZE STANDARDS.
    (a) Establishment of an Office of Hearings and Appeals in the Small 
Business Administration.--
        (1) In general.--Section 5 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
    634) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(i) Office of Hearings and Appeals.--
        ``(1) Establishment.--
            ``(A) Office.--There is established in the Administration 
        an Office of Hearings and Appeals--
                ``(i) to impartially decide matters relating to program 
            decisions of the Administrator--

                    ``(I) for which Congress requires a hearing on the 
                record; or
                    ``(II) that the Administrator designates for 
                hearing by regulation; and

                ``(ii) which shall contain the office of the 
            Administration that handles requests submitted pursuant to 
            sections 552 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
            referred to as the `Freedom of Information Act') and 
            maintains records pursuant to section 552a of title 5, 
            United States Code (commonly referred to as the `Privacy 
            Act of 1974').
            ``(B) Jurisdiction.--The Office of Hearings and Appeals 
        shall only hear appeals of matters as described in this Act, 
        the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 661 et 
        seq.), and title 13 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
            ``(C) Associate administrator.--The head of the Office of 
        Hearings and Appeals shall be the Chief Hearing Officer 
        appointed under section 4(b)(1), who shall be responsible to 
        the Administrator.
        ``(2) Chief hearing officer duties.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Chief Hearing Officer shall--
                ``(i) be a career appointee in the Senior Executive 
            Service and an attorney licensed by a State, commonwealth, 
            territory or possession of the United States, or the 
            District of Columbia; and
                ``(ii) be responsible for the operation and management 
            of the Office of Hearings and Appeals.
            ``(B) Alternative dispute resolution.--The Chief Hearing 
        Officer may assign a matter for mediation or other means of 
        alternative dispute resolution.
        ``(3) Hearing officers.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Office of Hearings and Appeals shall 
        appoint Hearing Officers to carry out the duties described in 
        paragraph (1)(A)(i).
            ``(B) Conditions of employment.--A Hearing Officer 
        appointed under this paragraph--
                ``(i) shall serve in the excepted service as an 
            employee of the Administration under section 2103 of title 
            5, United States Code, and under the supervision of the 
            Chief Hearing Officer;
                ``(ii) shall be classified at a position to which 
            section 5376 of title 5, United States Code, applies; and
                ``(iii) shall be compensated at a rate not exceeding 
            the maximum rate payable under such section.
            ``(C) Authority; powers.--Notwithstanding section 556(b) of 
        title 5, United States Code--
                ``(i) a Hearing Officer may hear cases arising under 
            section 554 of such title;
                ``(ii) a Hearing Officer shall have the powers 
            described in section 556(c) of such title; and
                ``(iii) the relevant provisions of subchapter II of 
            chapter 5 of such title (except for section 556(b) of such 
            title) shall apply to such Hearing Officer.
            ``(D) Treatment of current personnel.--An individual 
        serving as a Judge in the Office of Hearings and Appeals (as 
        that position and office are designated in section 134.101 of 
        title 13, Code of Federal Regulations) on the effective date of 
        this subsection shall be considered as qualified to be, and 
        redesignated as, a Hearing Officer.
        ``(4) Hearing officer defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    `Hearing Officer' means an individual appointed or redesignated 
    under this subsection who is an attorney licensed by a State, 
    commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, or the 
    District of Columbia.''.
        (2) Associate administrator as chief hearing officer.--Section 
    4(b)(1) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 633(b)) is amended by adding at the 
    end the following: ``One such Associate Administrator shall be the 
    Chief Hearing Officer, who shall administer the Office of Hearings 
    and Appeals established under section 5(i).''.
        (3) Repeal of regulation.--Section 134.102(t) of title 13, Code 
    of Federal Regulations, as in effect on January 1, 2015 (relating 
    to types of hearings within the jurisdiction of the Office of 
    Hearings and Appeals), shall have no force or effect.
    (b) Petitions for Reconsideration of Size Standards for Small 
Business Concerns.--Section 3(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
632(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(9) Petitions for reconsideration of size standards.--
            ``(A) In general.--A person may file a petition for 
        reconsideration with the Office of Hearings and Appeals (as 
        established under section 5(i)) of a size standard revised, 
        modified, or established by the Administrator pursuant to this 
        subsection.
            ``(B) Time limit.--A person filing a petition for 
        reconsideration described in subparagraph (A) shall file such 
        petition not later than 30 days after the publication in the 
        Federal Register of the notice of final rule to revise, modify, 
        or establish size standards described in paragraph (6).
            ``(C) Process for agency review.--The Office of Hearings 
        and Appeals shall use the same process it uses to decide 
        challenges to the size of a small business concern to decide a 
        petition for review pursuant to this paragraph.
            ``(D) Judicial review.--The publication of a final rule in 
        the Federal Register described in subparagraph (B) shall be 
        considered final agency action for purposes of seeking judicial 
        review. Filing a petition for reconsideration under 
        subparagraph (A) shall not be a condition precedent to judicial 
        review of any such size standard.''.
    SEC. 870. ADDITIONAL DUTIES OF THE DIRECTOR OF SMALL AND 
      DISADVANTAGED BUSINESS UTILIZATION.
    Section 15(k) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 644(k)) is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (15), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in paragraph (16)(C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by inserting after paragraph (16) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(17) shall, when notified by a small business concern prior 
    to the award of a contract that the small business concern believes 
    that a solicitation, request for proposal, or request for quotation 
    unduly restricts the ability of the small business concern to 
    compete for the award--
            ``(A) submit the notice of the small business concern to 
        the contracting officer and, if necessary, recommend ways in 
        which the solicitation, request for proposal, or request for 
        quotation may be altered to increase the opportunity for 
        competition;
            ``(B) inform the advocate for competition of such agency 
        (as established under section 1705 of title 41, United States 
        Code, or section 2318 of title 10, United States Code) of such 
        notice; and
            ``(C) ensure that the small business concern is aware of 
        other resources and processes available to address unduly 
        restrictive provisions in a solicitation, request for proposal, 
        or request for quotation, even if such resources and processes 
        are provided by such agency, the Administration, the 
        Comptroller General, or a procurement technical assistance 
        program established under chapter 142 of title 10, United 
        States Code.''.
    SEC. 871. INCLUDING SUBCONTRACTING GOALS IN AGENCY 
      RESPONSIBILITIES.
    Section 1633(b) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2076; 15 U.S.C. 631 
note) is amended by striking ``assume responsibility for of the 
agency's success in achieving small business contracting goals and 
percentages'' and inserting ``assume responsibility for the agency's 
success in achieving each of the small business prime contracting and 
subcontracting goals and percentages''.
    SEC. 872. REPORTING RELATED TO FAILURE OF CONTRACTORS TO MEET GOALS 
      UNDER NEGOTIATED COMPREHENSIVE SMALL BUSINESS SUBCONTRACTING 
      PLANS.
    Paragraph (2) of section 834(d) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Years 1990 and 1991 (15 U.S.C. 637 note), 
as added by section 821(d)(2) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3434), is amended by striking ``may not 
negotiate'' and all that follows through the period at the end and 
inserting ``shall report to Congress on any negotiated comprehensive 
subcontracting plan that the Secretary determines did not meet the 
subcontracting goals negotiated in the plan for the prior fiscal 
year.''.
    SEC. 873. PILOT PROGRAM FOR STREAMLINING AWARDS FOR INNOVATIVE 
      TECHNOLOGY PROJECTS.
    (a) Exception From Certified Cost and Pricing Data Requirements.--
The requirements under section 2306a(a) of title 10, United States 
Code, shall not apply to a contract, subcontract, or modification of a 
contract or subcontract valued at less than $7,500,000 awarded to a 
small business or nontraditional defense contractor pursuant to--
        (1) a technical, merit-based selection procedure, such as a 
    broad agency announcement, or
        (2) the Small Business Innovation Research Program,
unless the head of the agency determines that submission of cost and 
pricing data should be required based on past performance of the 
specific small business or nontraditional defense contractor, or based 
on analysis of other information specific to the award.
    (b) Exception From Records Examination Requirement.--The 
requirements under subsection (b) of section 2313 of title 10, United 
States Code, shall not apply to a contract valued at less than 
$7,500,000 awarded to a small business or nontraditional defense 
contractor pursuant to--
        (1) a technical, merit-based selection procedure, such as a 
    broad agency announcement, or
        (2) the Small Business Innovation Research Program,
unless the head of the agency determines that auditing of records 
should be required based on past performance of the specific small 
business or nontraditional defense contractor, or based on analysis of 
other information specific to the award.
    (c) Sunset.--The exceptions under subsections (a) and (b) shall 
terminate on October 1, 2020.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Small business.--The term ``small business'' has the 
    meaning given the term ``small business concern'' under section 3 
    of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632).
        (2) Nontraditional defense contractor.--The term 
    ``nontraditional defense contractor'' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 2302(9) of title 10, United States Code.
    (e) Small Business Innovation Research Program Administrative Fee 
Extension.--Section 9(mm)(1) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 
638(mm)(1)) is amended by striking ``, for the 3 fiscal years beginning 
after the date of enactment of this subsection,'' and inserting ``and 
until September 30, 2017,''.
    SEC. 874. SURETY BOND REQUIREMENTS AND AMOUNT OF GUARANTEE.
    (a) Surety Bond Requirements.--Chapter 93 of subtitle VI of title 
31, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 9310. Individual sureties
    ``If another applicable Federal law or regulation permits the 
acceptance of a bond from a surety that is not subject to sections 9305 
and 9306 and is based on a pledge of assets by the surety, the assets 
pledged by such surety shall--
        ``(1) consist of eligible obligations described under section 
    9303(a); and
        ``(2) be submitted to the official of the Government required 
    to approve or accept the bond, who shall deposit the obligations as 
    described under section 9303(b).''; and
        (2) in the table of contents for such chapter, by adding at the 
    end the following:

``9310. Individual sureties.''.

    (b) Amount of Surety Bond Guarantee From Small Business 
Administration.--Section 411(c)(1) of the Small Business Investment Act 
of 1958 (15 U.S.C. 694b(c)(1)) is amended by striking ``70'' and 
inserting ``90''.
    (c) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    SEC. 875. REVIEW OF GOVERNMENT ACCESS TO INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
      RIGHTS OF PRIVATE SECTOR FIRMS.
    (a) Review Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall enter into a 
    contract with an independent entity with appropriate expertise to 
    conduct a review of--
            (A) Department of Defense regulations, practices, and 
        sustainment requirements related to Government access to and 
        use of intellectual property rights of private sector firms; 
        and
            (B) Department of Defense practices related to the 
        procurement, management, and use of intellectual property 
        rights to facilitate competition in sustainment of weapon 
        systems throughout their life-cycle.
        (2) Consultation required.--The contract shall require that in 
    conducting the review, the independent entity shall consult with 
    the National Defense Technology and Industrial Base Council 
    (described in section 2502 of title 10, United States Code) and 
    each Center of Industrial and Technical Excellence (described in 
    section 2474 of title 10, United States Code).
    (b) Report.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the findings 
of the independent entity, along with a description of any actions that 
the Secretary proposes to revise and clarify laws or that the Secretary 
may take to revise or clarify regulations related to intellectual 
property rights.
    SEC. 876. INCLUSION IN ANNUAL TECHNOLOGY AND INDUSTRIAL CAPABILITY 
      ASSESSMENTS OF A DETERMINATION ABOUT DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROGRAM 
      REQUIREMENTS.
    Section 2505(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (5) 
    and (6), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new 
    paragraphs (3) and (4):
        ``(3) determine the extent to which the requirements associated 
    with defense acquisition programs can be satisfied by the present 
    and projected performance capacities of industries supporting the 
    sectors or capabilities in the assessment, evaluate the reasons for 
    any variance from applicable preceding determinations, and identify 
    the extent to which those industries are comprised of only one 
    potential source in the national technology and industrial base or 
    have multiple potential sources;
        ``(4) determine the extent to which the requirements associated 
    with defense acquisition programs can be satisfied by the present 
    and projected performance capacities of industries that do not 
    actively support Department of Defense acquisition programs and 
    identify the barriers to the participation of those industries;''.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

    SEC. 881. CONSIDERATION OF POTENTIAL PROGRAM COST INCREASES AND 
      SCHEDULE DELAYS RESULTING FROM OVERSIGHT OF DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
      PROGRAMS.
    (a) Avoidance of Unnecessary Cost Increases and Schedule Delays.--
The Director of Operational Test and Evaluation, the Deputy Chief 
Management Officer, the Director of the Defense Contract Management 
Agency, the Director of the Defense Contract Audit Agency, the 
Inspector General of the Department of Defense, and the heads of other 
defense audit, testing, acquisition, and management agencies shall 
ensure that policies, procedures, and activities implemented by their 
offices and agencies in connection with defense acquisition program 
oversight do not result in unnecessary increases in program costs or 
cost estimates or delays in schedule or schedule estimates.
    (b) Consideration of Private Sector Best Practices.--In considering 
potential cost increases and schedule delays as a result of oversight 
efforts pursuant to subsection (a), the officials described in such 
subsection shall consider private sector best practices with respect to 
oversight implementation.
    SEC. 882. EXAMINATION AND GUIDANCE RELATING TO OVERSIGHT AND 
      APPROVAL OF SERVICES CONTRACTS.
    Not later than March 1, 2016, the Under Secretary of Defense for 
Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall--
        (1) complete an examination of the decision authority related 
    to acquisition of services; and
        (2) develop and issue guidance to improve capabilities and 
    processes related to requirements development and source selection 
    for, and oversight and management of, services contracts.
    SEC. 883. STREAMLINING OF REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO DEFENSE BUSINESS 
      SYSTEMS.
    (a) In General.--
        (1) Revision.--Section 2222 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 2222. Defense business systems: business process reengineering; 
    enterprise architecture; management
    ``(a) Defense Business Processes Generally.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall ensure that defense business processes are reviewed, and 
as appropriate revised, through business process reengineering to match 
best commercial practices, to the maximum extent practicable, so as to 
minimize customization of commercial business systems.
    ``(b) Defense Business Systems Generally.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall ensure that each covered defense business system developed, 
deployed, and operated by the Department of Defense--
        ``(1) supports efficient business processes that have been 
    reviewed, and as appropriate revised, through business process 
    reengineering;
        ``(2) is integrated into a comprehensive defense business 
    enterprise architecture;
        ``(3) is managed in a manner that provides visibility into, and 
    traceability of, expenditures for the system; and
        ``(4) uses an acquisition and sustainment strategy that 
    prioritizes the use of commercial software and business practices.
    ``(c) Issuance of Guidance.--
        ``(1) Secretary of defense guidance.--The Secretary shall issue 
    guidance to provide for the coordination of, and decision making 
    for, the planning, programming, and control of investments in 
    covered defense business systems.
        ``(2) Supporting guidance.--The Secretary shall direct the 
    Deputy Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, the 
    Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
    Logistics, the Chief Information Officer, and the Chief Management 
    Officer of each of the military departments to issue and maintain 
    supporting guidance, as appropriate and within their respective 
    areas of responsibility, for the guidance of the Secretary issued 
    under paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Guidance Elements.--The guidance issued under subsection 
(c)(1) shall include the following elements:
        ``(1) Policy to ensure that the business processes of the 
    Department of Defense are continuously reviewed and revised--
            ``(A) to implement the most streamlined and efficient 
        business processes practicable; and
            ``(B) eliminate or reduce the need to tailor commercial 
        off-the-shelf systems to meet or incorporate requirements or 
        interfaces that are unique to the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) A process to establish requirements for covered defense 
    business systems.
        ``(3) Mechanisms for the planning and control of investments in 
    covered defense business systems, including a process for the 
    collection and review of programming and budgeting information for 
    covered defense business systems.
        ``(4) Policy requiring the periodic review of covered defense 
    business systems that have been fully deployed, by portfolio, to 
    ensure that investments in such portfolios are appropriate.
        ``(5) Policy to ensure full consideration of sustainability and 
    technological refreshment requirements, and the appropriate use of 
    open architectures.
        ``(6) Policy to ensure that best acquisition and systems 
    engineering practices are used in the procurement and deployment of 
    commercial systems, modified commercial systems, and defense-unique 
    systems to meet Department of Defense missions.
    ``(e) Defense Business Enterprise Architecture.--
        ``(1) Blueprint.--The Secretary, working through the Deputy 
    Chief Management Officer of the Department of Defense, shall 
    develop and maintain a blueprint to guide the development of 
    integrated business processes within the Department of Defense. 
    Such blueprint shall be known as the `defense business enterprise 
    architecture'.
        ``(2) Purpose.--The defense business enterprise architecture 
    shall be sufficiently defined to effectively guide implementation 
    of interoperable defense business system solutions and shall be 
    consistent with the policies and procedures established by the 
    Director of the Office of Management and Budget.
        ``(3) Elements.--The defense business enterprise architecture 
    shall--
            ``(A) include policies, procedures, business data 
        standards, business performance measures, and business 
        information requirements that apply uniformly throughout the 
        Department of Defense; and
            ``(B) enable the Department of Defense to--
                ``(i) comply with all applicable law, including Federal 
            accounting, financial management, and reporting 
            requirements;
                ``(ii) routinely produce verifiable, timely, accurate, 
            and reliable business and financial information for 
            management purposes;
                ``(iii) integrate budget, accounting, and program 
            information and systems; and
                ``(iv) identify whether each existing business system 
            is a part of the business systems environment outlined by 
            the defense business enterprise architecture, will become a 
            part of that environment with appropriate modifications, or 
            is not a part of that environment.
        ``(4) Integration into information technology architecture.--
    (A) The defense business enterprise architecture shall be 
    integrated into the information technology enterprise architecture 
    required under subparagraph (B).
        ``(B) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense shall develop an information technology enterprise 
    architecture. The architecture shall describe a plan for improving 
    the information technology and computing infrastructure of the 
    Department of Defense, including for each of the major business 
    processes conducted by the Department of Defense.
    ``(f) Defense Business Council.--
        ``(1) Requirement for council.--The Secretary shall establish a 
    Defense Business Council to provide advice to the Secretary on 
    developing the defense business enterprise architecture, 
    reengineering the Department's business processes, developing and 
    deploying defense business systems, and developing requirements for 
    defense business systems. The Council shall be chaired by the 
    Deputy Chief Management Officer and the Chief Information Officer 
    of the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Membership.--The membership of the Council shall include 
    the following:
            ``(A) The Chief Management Officers of the military 
        departments, or their designees.
            ``(B) The following officials of the Department of Defense, 
        or their designees:
                ``(i) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
            Technology, and Logistics with respect to acquisition, 
            logistics, and installations management processes.
                ``(ii) The Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) 
            with respect to financial management and planning and 
            budgeting processes.
                ``(iii) The Under Secretary of Defense for Personnel 
            and Readiness with respect to human resources management 
            processes.
    ``(g) Approvals Required for Development.--
        ``(1) Initial approval required.--The Secretary shall ensure 
    that a covered defense business system program cannot proceed into 
    development (or, if no development is required, into production or 
    fielding) unless the appropriate approval official (as specified in 
    paragraph (2)) determines that--
            ``(A) the system has been, or is being, reengineered to be 
        as streamlined and efficient as practicable, and the 
        implementation of the system will maximize the elimination of 
        unique software requirements and unique interfaces;
            ``(B) the system and business system portfolio are or will 
        be in compliance with the defense business enterprise 
        architecture developed pursuant to subsection (e) or will be in 
        compliance as a result of modifications planned;
            ``(C) the system has valid, achievable requirements and a 
        viable plan for implementing those requirements (including, as 
        appropriate, market research, business process reengineering, 
        and prototyping activities);
            ``(D) the system has an acquisition strategy designed to 
        eliminate or reduce the need to tailor commercial off-the-shelf 
        systems to meet unique requirements, incorporate unique 
        requirements, or incorporate unique interfaces to the maximum 
        extent practicable; and
            ``(E) is in compliance with the Department's auditability 
        requirements.
        ``(2) Appropriate official.--For purposes of paragraph (1), the 
    appropriate approval official with respect to a covered defense 
    business system is the following:
            ``(A) Except as may be provided in subparagraph (C), in the 
        case of a priority defense business system, the Deputy Chief 
        Management Officer of the Department of Defense.
            ``(B) Except as may be provided in subparagraph (C), for 
        any defense business system other than a priority defense 
        business system--
                ``(i) in the case of a system of a military department, 
            the Chief Management Officer of that military department; 
            and
                ``(ii) in the case of a system of a Defense Agency or 
            Department of Defense Field Activity, or a system that will 
            support the business process of more than one military 
            department or Defense Agency or Department of Defense Field 
            Activity, the Deputy Chief Management Officer of the 
            Department of Defense.
            ``(C) In the case of any defense business system, such 
        official other than the applicable official under subparagraph 
        (A) or (B) as the Secretary designates for such purpose.
        ``(3) Annual certification.--For any fiscal year in which funds 
    are expended for development or sustainment pursuant to a covered 
    defense business system program, the appropriate approval official 
    shall review the system and certify, certify with conditions, or 
    decline to certify, as the case may be, that it continues to 
    satisfy the requirements of paragraph (1). If the approval official 
    determines that certification cannot be granted, the approval 
    official shall notify the milestone decision authority for the 
    program and provide a recommendation for corrective action.
        ``(4) Obligation of funds in violation of requirements.--The 
    obligation of Department of Defense funds for a covered defense 
    business system program that has not been certified in accordance 
    with paragraph (3) is a violation of section 1341(a)(1)(A) of title 
    31.
    ``(h) Responsibility of Milestone Decision Authority.--The 
milestone decision authority for a covered defense business system 
program shall be responsible for the acquisition of such system and 
shall ensure that acquisition process approvals are not considered for 
such system until the relevant certifications and approvals have been 
made under this section.
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1)(A) Defense business system.--The term `defense business 
    system' means an information system that is operated by, for, or on 
    behalf of the Department of Defense, including any of the 
    following:
            ``(i) A financial system.
            ``(ii) A financial data feeder system.
            ``(iii) A contracting system.
            ``(iv) A logistics system.
            ``(v) A planning and budgeting system.
            ``(vi) An installations management system.
            ``(vii) A human resources management system.
            ``(viii) A training and readiness system.
        ``(B) The term does not include--
            ``(i) a national security system; or
            ``(ii) an information system used exclusively by and within 
        the defense commissary system or the exchange system or other 
        instrumentality of the Department of Defense conducted for the 
        morale, welfare, and recreation of members of the armed forces 
        using nonappropriated funds.
        ``(2) Covered defense business system.--The term `covered 
    defense business system' means a defense business system that is 
    expected to have a total amount of budget authority, over the 
    period of the current future-years defense program submitted to 
    Congress under section 221 of this title, in excess of $50,000,000.
        ``(3) Business system portfolio.--The term `business system 
    portfolio' means all business systems performing functions closely 
    related to the functions performed or to be performed by a covered 
    defense business system.
        ``(4) Covered defense business system program.--The term 
    `covered defense business system program' means a defense 
    acquisition program to develop and field a covered defense business 
    system or an increment of a covered defense business system.
        ``(5) Priority defense business system program.--The term 
    `priority defense business system' means a defense business system 
    that is--
            ``(A) expected to have a total amount of budget authority 
        over the period of the current future-years defense program 
        submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title in excess 
        of $250,000,000; or
            ``(B) designated by the Deputy Chief Management Officer of 
        the Department of Defense as a priority defense business 
        system, based on specific program analyses of factors including 
        complexity, scope, and technical risk, and after notification 
        to Congress of such designation.
        ``(6) Enterprise architecture.--The term `enterprise 
    architecture' has the meaning given that term in section 3601(4) of 
    title 44.
        ``(7) Information system.--The term `information system' has 
    the meaning given that term in section 11101 of title 40, United 
    States Code.
        ``(8) National security system.--The term `national security 
    system' has the meaning given that term in section 3552(b)(6)(A) of 
    title 44.
        ``(9) Business process mapping.--The term `business process 
    mapping' means a procedure in which the steps in a business process 
    are clarified and documented in both written form and in a flow 
    chart.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    2222 and inserting the following new item:

``2222. Defense business systems: business process reengineering; 
          enterprise architecture; management.''.

    (b) Deadline for Guidance.--The guidance required by subsection 
(c)(1) of section 2222 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
subsection (a)(1), shall be issued not later than December 31, 2016.
    (c) Repeal.--Section 811 of the John Warner National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 
2222 note) is repealed.
    (d) Comptroller General Assessment.--
        (1) Assessment required.--In each odd-numbered year, the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees an assessment of the extent to 
    which the actions taken by the Department of Defense comply with 
    the requirements of section 2222 of title 10, United States Code.
        (2) Repeal of superseded provision.--Subsection (d) of section 
    332 of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 1856) is repealed.
    (e) Guidance on Acquisition of Business Systems.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall issue guidance for major automated information systems 
acquisition programs to promote the use of best acquisition, 
contracting, requirement development, systems engineering, program 
management, and sustainment practices, including--
        (1) ensuring that an acquisition program baseline has been 
    established within two years after program initiation;
        (2) ensuring that program requirements have not changed in a 
    manner that increases acquisition costs or delays the schedule, 
    without sufficient cause and only after maximum efforts to 
    reengineer business processes prior to changing requirements;
        (3) policies to evaluate commercial off-the-shelf business 
    systems for security, resilience, reliability, interoperability, 
    and integration with existing interrelated systems where such 
    system integration and interoperability are essential to Department 
    of Defense operations;
        (4) policies to work with commercial off-the-shelf business 
    system developers and owners in adapting systems for Department of 
    Defense use;
        (5) policies to perform Department of Defense legacy system 
    audits to determine which systems are related to or rely upon the 
    system to be replaced or integrated with commercial off-the-shelf 
    business systems;
        (6) policies to perform full backup of systems that will be 
    changed or replaced by the installation of commercial off-the-shelf 
    business systems prior to installation and deployment to ensure 
    reconstitution of the system to a functioning state should it 
    become necessary;
        (7) policies to engage the research and development activities 
    and laboratories of the Department of Defense to improve 
    acquisition outcomes; and
        (8) policies to refine and improve developmental and 
    operational testing of business processes that are supported by the 
    major automated information systems.
    SEC. 884. PROCUREMENT OF PERSONAL PROTECTIVE EQUIPMENT.
    The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the Secretaries of the 
Army, Navy, and Air Force, in procuring an item of personal protective 
equipment or a critical safety item, use source selection criteria that 
is predominately based on technical qualifications of the item and not 
predominately based on price to the maximum extent practicable if the 
level of quality or failure of the item could result in death or severe 
bodily harm to the user, as determined by the Secretaries.
    SEC. 885. AMENDMENTS CONCERNING DETECTION AND AVOIDANCE OF 
      COUNTERFEIT ELECTRONIC PARTS.
    (a) Amendments Related to Contractor Responsibilities.--Section 
818(c)(2)(B) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in clause (i), by inserting ``electronic'' after ``avoid 
    counterfeit'';
        (2) in clause (ii)--
            (A) by inserting ``covered'' after ``provided to the''; and
            (B) by inserting ``or were obtained by the covered 
        contractor in accordance with regulations described in 
        paragraph (3)'' after ``Regulation''; and
        (3) in clause (iii), by inserting ``discovers the counterfeit 
    electronic parts or suspect counterfeit electronic parts and'' 
    after ``contractor''.
    (b) Amendments Related to Trusted Suppliers.--Section 
818(c)(3)(D)(iii) of such Act (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) 
is amended by striking ``review and audit'' and inserting ``review, 
audit, and approval''.
    SEC. 886. EXCEPTION FOR ABILITYONE PRODUCTS FROM AUTHORITY TO 
      ACQUIRE GOODS AND SERVICES MANUFACTURED IN AFGHANISTAN, CENTRAL 
      ASIAN STATES, AND DJIBOUTI.
    (a) Exclusion of Certain Items Not Manufactured in Afghanistan.--
Section 886 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2008 (10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and except as provided in 
    subsection (d),'' after ``subsection (b),''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Exclusion of Items on the AbilityOne Procurement Catalog.--
The authority under subsection (a) shall not be available for the 
procurement of any good that is contained in the procurement catalog 
described in section 8503(a) of title 41, United States Code, in 
Afghanistan if such good can be produced and delivered by a qualified 
nonprofit agency for the blind or a nonprofit agency for other severely 
disabled in a timely fashion to support mission requirements.''.
    (b) Exclusion of Certain Items Not Manufactured in Central Asian 
States.--Section 801 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2399) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``and except as provided in 
    subsection (h),'' after ``subsection (b),''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Exclusion of Items on the AbilityOne Procurement Catalog.--
The authority under subsection (a) shall not be available for the 
procurement of any good that is contained in the procurement catalog 
described in section 8503(a) of title 41, United States Code, if such 
good can be produced and delivered by a qualified nonprofit agency for 
the blind or a nonprofit agency for other severely disabled in a timely 
fashion to support mission requirements.''.
    (c) Exclusion of Certain Items Not Manufactured in Djibouti.--
Section 1263 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by inserting ``and except as provided in 
    subsection (g),'' after ``subsection (c),''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Exclusion of Items on the AbilityOne Procurement Catalog.--
The authority under subsection (b) shall not be available for the 
procurement of any good that is contained in the procurement catalog 
described in section 8503(a) of title 41, United States Code, if such 
good can be produced and delivered by a qualified nonprofit agency for 
the blind or a nonprofit agency for other severely disabled in a timely 
fashion to support mission requirements.''.
    SEC. 887. EFFECTIVE COMMUNICATION BETWEEN GOVERNMENT AND INDUSTRY.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council shall prescribe a 
regulation making clear that agency acquisition personnel are permitted 
and encouraged to engage in responsible and constructive exchanges with 
industry, so long as those exchanges are consistent with existing law 
and regulation and do not promote an unfair competitive advantage to 
particular firms.
    SEC. 888. STANDARDS FOR PROCUREMENT OF SECURE INFORMATION 
      TECHNOLOGY AND CYBER SECURITY SYSTEMS.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an 
assessment of the application of the Open Trusted Technology Provider 
Standard or similar public, open technology standards to Department of 
Defense procurements for information technology and cyber security 
acquisitions and provide a briefing to the Committees on Armed Services 
of the Senate and the House of Representatives not later than one year 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Elements.--The assessment and briefing required by subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
        (1) Assessment of the current Open Trusted Technology Provider 
    Standard to determine what aspects might be adopted by the 
    Department of Defense and where additional development of the 
    standard may be required.
        (2) Identification of the types or classes of programs where 
    the standard might be applied most effectively, as well as 
    identification of types or classes of programs that should 
    specifically be excluded from consideration.
        (3) Assessment of the impact on current acquisition regulations 
    or policies of the adoption of the standard.
        (4) Recommendations the Secretary may have related to the 
    adoption of the standard or improvement in the standard to support 
    Department acquisitions.
        (5) Any other matters the Secretary may deem appropriate.
    SEC. 889. UNIFIED INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY SERVICES.
    (a) Business Case Analysis.--Not later than one year after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Chief Management Officer, the 
Chief Information Officer of the Department of Defense, and the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall 
jointly complete a business case analysis to determine the most 
effective and efficient way to procure and deploy common information 
technology services.
    (b) Elements.--The business case analysis required by subsection 
(a) shall include an assessment of whether the Department of Defense 
should--
        (1) either--
            (A) acquire a unified set of commercially provided common 
        or enterprise information technology services, including such 
        services as messaging, collaboration, directory, security, and 
        content delivery; or
            (B) allow the military departments and other components of 
        the Department to acquire such services separately;
        (2) either--
            (A) acquire such services from a single provider that 
        bundles all of the services; or
            (B) require that each common service be independently 
        defined and use open standards to enable continuous adoption of 
        best commercial technology; and
        (3) enable availability of multiple versions of each type of 
    service and application to enable choice and competition while 
    supporting interoperability where necessary.
    SEC. 890. CLOUD STRATEGY FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Cloud Strategy for Secret Internet Protocol Router Network.--
        (1) In general.--The Chief Information Officer of the 
    Department of Defense shall, in consultation with the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, the Under Secretary of 
    Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics, the Vice 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, and the chief information 
    officers of the military departments, develop a cloud strategy for 
    the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network (SIPRNet) of the 
    Department.
        (2) Matters addressed.--This strategy required by paragraph (1) 
    shall address the following:
            (A) Security requirements.
            (B) The compatibility of applications currently utilized 
        within the Secret Internet Protocol Router Network with a cloud 
        computing environment.
            (C) How a Secret Internet Protocol Router Network cloud 
        capability should be competitively acquired.
            (D) How a Secret Internet Protocol Router Network cloud 
        system for the Department would achieve interoperability with 
        the cloud systems of the intelligence community (as defined in 
        section 3 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3003)) operating at the security level Sensitive Compartmented 
        Information.
    (b) Pricing Policy and Cost Recovery Process for Certain Cloud 
Services.--The Chief Information Officer shall, in consultation with 
the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, develop a consistent 
pricing policy and cost recovery process for the use by Department of 
Defense components of the cloud services provided through the 
Intelligence Community Information Technology Environment.
    (c) Assessment of Feasibility and Advisability of Imposing Minimum 
Standards.--The Chief Information Officer shall assess the feasibility 
and advisability of imposing a minimum set of open standards for cloud 
infrastructure, middle-ware, metadata, and application programming 
interfaces to promote interoperability, information sharing, ease of 
access to data, and competition across all of the cloud computing 
systems and services utilized by components of the Department of 
Defense.
    SEC. 891. DEVELOPMENT PERIOD FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INFORMATION 
      TECHNOLOGY SYSTEMS.
    (a) Flexible Limitation on Development Period.--Section 2445b of 
title 10, United States Code is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(d) Time-certain Development.--If an adjustment or revision under 
subsection (c) for a major automated information system that is not a 
national security system provides for a period in excess of five years 
from the time of program initiation to the time of a full deployment 
decision, the documents submitted under subsection (a) shall include a 
written determination by the senior Department of Defense official 
responsible for the program justifying the need for the longer 
period.''.
    (b) Repeal of Inconsistent Requirement.--Section 2445c(c)(2) of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking the semicolon at the end 
    and inserting ``; or'';
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``; or'' and inserting a 
    period; and
        (3) by striking subparagraph (D).
    SEC. 892. REVISIONS TO PILOT PROGRAM ON ACQUISITION OF MILITARY 
      PURPOSE NONDEVELOPMENTAL ITEMS.
    Section 866 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)(2), by striking ``with nontraditional 
    defense contractors''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``awarded using 
        competitive procedures in accordance with chapter 137 of title 
        10, United States Code''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``$50,000,000'' and 
        inserting ``$100,000,000''.
    SEC. 893. IMPROVED AUDITING OF CONTRACTS.
    (a) Prohibition on Performance of Non-defense Audits by DCAA.--
        (1) In general.--Effective on the date of the enactment of this 
    Act, the Defense Contract Audit Agency may not provide audit 
    support for non-Defense Agencies unless the Secretary of Defense 
    certifies that the backlog for incurred cost audits is less than 18 
    months of incurred cost inventory.
        (2) Adjustment in funding for reimbursements from non-defense 
    agencies.--The amount appropriated and otherwise available to the 
    Defense Contract Audit Agency for a fiscal year beginning after 
    September 30, 2016, shall be reduced by an amount equivalent to any 
    reimbursements received by the Agency from non-Defense Agencies for 
    audit support provided.
    (b) Amendments to Defense Contract Audit Agency Annual Report.--
Section 2313a(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), by amending subparagraph (D) to read as 
    follows:
            ``(D) the total costs of sustained or recovered costs both 
        as a total number and as a percentage of questioned costs; 
        and'';
        (2) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (4) as paragraph (5); and
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(4) a description of outreach actions toward industry to 
    promote more effective use of audit resources; and''.
    (c) Review of Acquisition Oversight and Audits.--
        (1) Review required.--The Secretary of Defense shall review the 
    oversight and audit structure of the Department of Defense with the 
    goals of--
            (A) enhancing the productivity of oversight and program and 
        contract auditing to avoid duplicative audits; and
            (B) streamlining of oversight reviews.
        (2) Recommendations.--The Secretary shall ensure streamlined 
    oversight reviews and avoidance of duplicative audits and make 
    recommendations in the report required under paragraph (3) for any 
    necessary changes in law.
        (3) Report.--
            (A) Not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
        congressional defense committees a report on actions taken to 
        avoid duplicative audits and streamline oversight reviews.
            (B) The report required under this paragraph shall include 
        the following elements:
                (i) A description of actions taken to avoid duplicative 
            audits and streamline oversight reviews based on the review 
            conducted under paragraph (1).
                (ii) A comparison of commercial industry accounting 
            practices, including requirements under the Sarbanes-Oxley 
            Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-204; 15 U.S.C. 7201 et seq.), 
            with the cost accounting standards prescribed under chapter 
            15 of title 41, United States Code, to determine if some 
            portions of cost accounting standards compliance can be met 
            through such practices or requirements.
                (iii) A description of standards of materiality used by 
            the Defense Contract Audit Agency and the Inspector General 
            of the Department of Defense for defense contract audits.
                (iv) An estimate of average delay and range of delays 
            in contract awards due to the time necessary for the 
            Defense Contract Audit Agency to complete pre-award audits.
                (v) The total costs of sustained or recovered costs 
            both as a total number and as a percentage of questioned 
            costs.
    (d) Incurred Cost Inventory Defined.--In this section, the term 
``incurred cost inventory'' means the level of contractor incurred cost 
proposals in inventory from prior fiscal years that are currently being 
audited by the Defense Contract Audit Agency.
    SEC. 894. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON EVALUATION METHOD FOR PROCUREMENT OF 
      AUDIT OR AUDIT READINESS SERVICES.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) Given the size, scope, and complexity of the Department of 
    Defense, the statutory deadline to establish and maintain auditable 
    financial statements, starting with the fiscal year 2018 financial 
    statement, is one of the more challenging management tasks that has 
    ever faced the Department.
        (2) As the military services have never received a clean 
    opinion on their consolidated financial statements and only 
    recently begun auditing portions of their financial statements, the 
    audits of military service financial statements will also be a 
    complex challenge for companies selected to provide audit services.
        (3) The acquisition of services by the Department abides by 
    many rules and parameters, one of which is the lowest price, 
    technically acceptable (LPTA) evaluation method. LPTA is generally 
    appropriate for commercial or noncomplex services or supplies where 
    the requirement is clearly definable and the risk of unsuccessful 
    contract performance is minimal.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that, before 
using the lowest price, technically acceptable evaluation method for 
the procurement of audit or audit readiness services, the Secretary of 
Defense should establish the values and metrics for evaluating 
companies offering audit services, including financial management and 
audit expertise and experience, personnel qualifications and 
certifications, past performance, technology, tools, and size.
    SEC. 895. MITIGATING POTENTIAL UNFAIR COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE OF 
      TECHNICAL ADVISORS TO ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and 
Logistics shall review, and as necessary revise or issue, policy 
guidance pertaining to the identification, mitigation, and prevention 
of potential unfair competitive advantage conferred to technical 
advisors to acquisition programs.
    SEC. 896. SURVEY ON THE COSTS OF REGULATORY COMPLIANCE.
    (a) Survey.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct a survey of 
contractors with the highest level of reimbursements for cost type 
contracts with the Department of Defense during fiscal year 2014 to 
estimate industry's cost of regulatory compliance (as a percentage of 
total costs) with Government-unique acquisition regulations and 
requirements in the categories of quality assurance, accounting and 
financial management, contracting and purchasing, program management, 
engineering, logistics, material management, property administration, 
and other unique requirements not imposed on contracts for commercial 
items.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a report on the findings of the survey 
conducted under subsection (a). The data received as a result of the 
survey and included in the report shall be aggregated to protect 
against the public release of proprietary information.
    SEC. 897. TREATMENT OF INTERAGENCY AND STATE AND LOCAL PURCHASES 
      WHEN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ACTS AS CONTRACT INTERMEDIARY FOR 
      THE GENERAL SERVICES ADMINISTRATION.
    Contracts executed by the Department of Defense as a result of the 
transfer of contracts from the General Services Administration or for 
which the Department serves as an item manager for products on behalf 
of the General Services Administration shall not be subject to 
requirements under chapter 148 of title 10, United States Code, to the 
extent such contracts are for purchases of products by other Federal 
agencies or State or local governments.
    SEC. 898. COMPETITION FOR RELIGIOUS SERVICES CONTRACTS.
    The Department of Defense may not preclude a non-profit 
organization from competing for a contract for religious related 
services on a United States military installation.
    SEC. 899. PILOT PROGRAM REGARDING RISK-BASED CONTRACTING FOR 
      SMALLER CONTRACT ACTIONS UNDER THE TRUTH IN NEGOTIATIONS ACT.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may conduct 
a pilot program to demonstrate the efficacy of using risk-based 
techniques in requiring submission of data on a sampling basis for 
purposes of section 2306a of title 10, United States Code (popularly 
known as the ``Truth in Negotiations Act'').
    (b) Increase in Thresholds.--For purposes of a pilot program under 
subsection (a), $5,000,000 shall be the threshold applicable to 
requirements under paragraph (1) of section 2306a(a) of such title, as 
follows:
        (1) The requirement under subparagraph (A) of such paragraph to 
    submit cost or pricing data for a prime contract entered into 
    during the pilot program period.
        (2) The requirement under subparagraph (B) of such paragraph to 
    submit cost or pricing data for the change or modification to a 
    prime contract made during the pilot program period.
        (3) The requirement under subparagraph (C) of such paragraph to 
    submit cost or pricing data for a subcontract entered into during 
    the pilot program period.
        (4) The requirement under subparagraph (D) of such paragraph to 
    submit cost or pricing data for the change or modification to a 
    subcontract made during the pilot program period.
    (c) Risk-based Contracting.--
        (1) Authority to require submission of cost or pricing data on 
    below-threshold contracts.--Subject to paragraph (4), when 
    certified cost or pricing data are not required to be submitted 
    pursuant to subsection (b) for a contract or subcontract entered 
    into or modified during the pilot program period, such data may 
    nevertheless be required to be submitted by the head of the 
    procuring activity, if the head of the procuring activity--
            (A) determines that such data are necessary for the 
        evaluation by the agency of the reasonableness of the price of 
        the contract, subcontract, or modification of a contract or 
        subcontract; or
            (B) requires the submission of such data in accordance with 
        a risk-based contracting approach established pursuant to 
        paragraph (3).
        (2) Written determination required.--In any case in which the 
    head of the procuring activity requires certified cost or pricing 
    data to be submitted under paragraph (1)(A), the head of the 
    procuring activity shall justify in writing the reason for such 
    requirement.
        (3) Risk-based contracting.--The head of an agency shall 
    establish a risk-based sampling approach under which the submission 
    of certified cost or pricing data may be required for a risk-based 
    sample of contracts, the price of which is expected to exceed 
    $750,000 but not $5,000,000. The authority to require certified 
    cost or pricing data under this paragraph shall not apply to any 
    contract of an offeror that has not been awarded, for at least the 
    one-year period preceding the issuance of a solicitation for the 
    contract, any other contract in excess of $5,000,000 under which 
    the offeror was required to submit certified cost or pricing data 
    under section 2306a of title 10, United States Code.
        (4) Exception.--The head of the procuring activity may not 
    require certified cost or pricing data to be submitted under this 
    subsection for any contract or subcontract, or modification of a 
    contract or subcontract, covered by the exceptions in subparagraph 
    (A) or (B) of section 2306a(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code.
        (5) Delegation of authority prohibited.--The head of a 
    procuring activity may not delegate functions under this 
    subsection.
    (d) Reports.--Not later than January 1, 2017, and January 1, 2019, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on activities undertaken under this section.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Head of an agency.--The term ``head of an agency'' has the 
    meaning given the term in section 2302 of title 10, United States 
    Code.
        (2) Pilot program period.--The term ``pilot program period'' 
    means the period beginning on October 1, 2016, and ending on 
    September 30, 2019.

      TITLE IX--DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT

Sec. 901. Update of statutory specification of functions of the Chairman 
          of the Joint Chiefs of Staff relating to joint force 
          development activities.
Sec. 902. Sense of Congress on the United States Marine Corps.
    SEC. 901. UPDATE OF STATUTORY SPECIFICATION OF FUNCTIONS OF THE 
      CHAIRMAN OF THE JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF RELATING TO JOINT FORCE 
      DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES.
    Section 153(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
        ``(F) Advising the Secretary on development of joint command, 
    control, communications, and cyber capability, including 
    integration and interoperability of such capability, through 
    requirements, integrated architectures, data standards, and 
    assessments.''.
    SEC. 902. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) As senior United States statesman Dr. Henry Kissinger wrote 
    in testimony submitted to the Committee on Armed Services of the 
    Senate on January 29, 2015, ``The United States has not faced a 
    more diverse and complex array of crises since the end of the 
    Second World War.''.
        (2) The rise of non-state forces and near peer competitors has 
    introduced destabilizing pressures around the globe.
        (3) Advances in information and weapons technology have reduced 
    the time available for the United States to prepare for and respond 
    to crises against both known and unknown threats.
        (4) The importance of the maritime domain cannot be overstated. 
    As acknowledged in the March 2015 Navy, Marine Corps, and Coast 
    Guard maritime strategy, ``A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century 
    Seapower: Forward, Engaged, Ready'': ``Oceans are the lifeblood of 
    the interconnected global community. . . 90 percent of trade by 
    volume travels across the oceans. Approximately 70 percent of the 
    world's population lives within 100 miles of the coastline.''.
        (5) The United States must be prepared to rapidly respond to 
    crises around the world regardless of the nation's fiscal health.
        (6) In this global security environment, it is critical that 
    the nation possess a maritime force whose mission and ethos is 
    readiness--a fight tonight force, forward deployed, that can 
    respond immediately to emergent crises across the full range of 
    military operations around the globe either from the sea or home 
    station.
        (7) The need for such a force was recognized by the 82nd 
    Congress during the Korean War, when it mandated a core mission for 
    the nation's leanest force--the Marine Corps--to be most ready when 
    the nation is least ready.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Marine Corps, within the Department of the Navy, remain 
    the Nation's expeditionary, crisis response force;
        (2) the need for such a force with such a capability has never 
    been greater; and
        (3) accordingly, in recognition of this need and the wisdom of 
    the 82nd Congress, the 114th Congress reaffirms section 5063 of 
    title 10, United States Code, which states that the Marine Corps--
            (A) shall--
                (i) be organized to include not less than three combat 
            divisions and three air wings, and such other land combat, 
            aviation, and other services as may be organic therein;
                (ii) be organized, trained, and equipped to provide 
            fleet marine forces of combined arms, together with 
            supporting air components, for service with the fleet in 
            the seizure or defense of advanced naval bases and for the 
            conduct of such land operations as may be essential to the 
            prosecution of a naval campaign; and
                (iii) provide detachments and organizations for service 
            on armed vessels of the Navy, provide security detachments 
            for the protection of naval property at naval stations and 
            bases, and perform such other duties as the President may 
            direct;
        but these additional duties may not detract from nor interfere 
        with the operations for which the Marine Corps is primarily 
        organized;
            (B) shall develop, in coordination with the Army and the 
        Air Force, those phases of amphibious operations that pertain 
        to the tactics, techniques, and equipment used by landing 
        forces; and
            (C) is responsible, in accordance with the integrated joint 
        mobilization plans, for the expansion of peacetime components 
        of the Marine Corps to meet the needs of war.

                      TITLE X--GENERAL PROVISIONS

                      Subtitle A--Financial Matters

Sec. 1001. General transfer authority.
Sec. 1002. Accounting standards to value certain property, plant, and 
          equipment items.
Sec. 1003. Report on auditable financial statements.
Sec. 1004. Sense of Congress on sequestration.
Sec. 1005. Annual audit of financial statements of Department of Defense 
          components by independent external auditors.

                   Subtitle B--Counter-Drug Activities

Sec. 1011. Extension of authority to support unified counterdrug and 
          counterterrorism campaign in Colombia.
Sec. 1012. Extension and expansion of authority to provide additional 
          support for counter-drug activities of certain foreign 
          governments.
Sec. 1013. Sense of Congress on Central America.

                 Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

Sec. 1021. Additional information supporting long-range plans for 
          construction of naval vessels.
Sec. 1022. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.
Sec. 1023. Extension of authority for reimbursement of expenses for 
          certain Navy mess operations afloat.
Sec. 1024. Availability of funds for retirement or inactivation of 
          Ticonderoga class cruisers or dock landing ships.
Sec. 1025. Limitation on the use of funds for removal of ballistic 
          missile defense capabilities from Ticonderoga class cruisers.
Sec. 1026. Independent assessment of United States Combat Logistic Force 
          requirements.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

Sec. 1031. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release of 
          individuals detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to the United States.
Sec. 1032. Prohibition on use of funds to construct or modify facilities 
          in the United States to house detainees transferred from 
          United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1033. Prohibition on use of funds for transfer or release to 
          certain countries of individuals detained at United States 
          Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1034. Reenactment and modification of certain prior requirements 
          for certifications relating to transfer of detainees at United 
          States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, to foreign 
          countries and other foreign entities.
Sec. 1035. Comprehensive detention strategy.
Sec. 1036. Prohibition on use of funds for realignment of forces at or 
          closure of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1037. Report on current detainees at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, determined or assessed to be high risk 
          or medium risk.
Sec. 1038. Reports to Congress on contact between terrorists and 
          individuals formerly detained at United States Naval Station, 
          Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1039. Inclusion in reports to Congress of information about 
          recidivism of individuals formerly detained at United States 
          Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1040. Report to Congress on terms of written agreements with 
          foreign countries regarding transfer of detainees at United 
          States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
Sec. 1041. Report on use of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
          Cuba, and other Department of Defense or Bureau of Prisons 
          prisons or detention or disciplinary facilities in recruitment 
          or other propaganda of terrorist organizations.
Sec. 1042. Permanent authority to provide rewards through government 
          personnel of allied forces and certain other modifications to 
          Department of Defense program to provide rewards.
Sec. 1043. Sunset on exception to congressional notification of 
          sensitive military operations.
Sec. 1044. Repeal of semiannual reports on obligation and expenditure of 
          funds for the combating terrorism program.
Sec. 1045. Limitation on interrogation techniques.

          Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

Sec. 1051. Department of Defense excess property program.
Sec. 1052. Sale or donation of excess personal property for border 
          security activities.
Sec. 1053. Management of military technicians.
Sec. 1054. Limitation on transfer of certain AH-64 Apache helicopters 
          from Army National Guard to regular Army and related personnel 
          levels.
Sec. 1055. Authority to provide training and support to personnel of 
          foreign ministries of defense.
Sec. 1056. Information operations and engagement technology 
          demonstrations.
Sec. 1057. Prohibition on use of funds for retirement of Helicopter Sea 
          Combat Squadron 84 and 85 aircraft.
Sec. 1058. Limitation on availability of funds for destruction of 
          certain landmines and report on department of defense policy 
          and inventory of anti-personnel landmine munitions.
Sec. 1059. Department of Defense authority to provide assistance to 
          secure the southern land border of the United States.

                     Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

Sec. 1060. Provision of defense planning guidance and contingency 
          planning guidance information to Congress.
Sec. 1061. Expedited meetings of the National Commission on the Future 
          of the Army.
Sec. 1062. Modification of certain reports submitted by Comptroller 
          General of the United States.
Sec. 1063. Report on implementation of the geographically distributed 
          force laydown in the area of responsibility of United States 
          Pacific Command.
Sec. 1064. Independent study of national security strategy formulation 
          process.
Sec. 1065. Report on the status of detection, identification, and 
          disablement capabilities related to remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 1066. Report on options to accelerate the training of pilots of 
          remotely piloted aircraft.
Sec. 1067. Studies of fleet platform architectures for the Navy.
Sec. 1068. Report on strategy to protect United States national security 
          interests in the Arctic region.
Sec. 1069. Comptroller General briefing and report on major medical 
          facility projects of Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 1070. Submittal to Congress of munitions assessments.
Sec. 1071. Potential role for United States ground forces in the Western 
          Pacific theater.
Sec. 1072. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          military personnel issues.
Sec. 1073. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements relating to 
          readiness.
Sec. 1074. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to naval 
          vessels and Merchant Marine.
Sec. 1075. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          civilian personnel.
Sec. 1076. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          nuclear proliferation and related matters.
Sec. 1077. Repeal or revision of reporting requirements related to 
          acquisition.
Sec. 1078. Repeal or revision of miscellaneous reporting requirements.
Sec. 1079. Repeal of reporting requirements.
Sec. 1080. Termination of requirement for submittal to Congress of 
          reports required of Department of Defense by statute.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1081. Technical and clerical amendments.
Sec. 1082. Situations involving bombings of places of public use, 
          Government facilities, public transportation systems, and 
          infrastructure facilities.
Sec. 1083. Executive agent for the oversight and management of 
          alternative compensatory control measures.
Sec. 1084. Navy support of Ocean Research Advisory Panel.
Sec. 1085. Level of readiness of Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers.
Sec. 1086. Reform and improvement of personnel security, insider threat 
          detection and prevention, and physical security.
Sec. 1087. Transfer of surplus firearms to Corporation for the Promotion 
          of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety.
Sec. 1088. Modification of requirements for transferring aircraft within 
          the Air Force inventory.
Sec. 1089. Reestablishment of Commission to Assess the Threat to the 
          United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack.
Sec. 1090. Mine countermeasures master plan and report.
Sec. 1091. Congressional notification and briefing requirement on 
          ordered evacuations of United States embassies and consulates 
          involving support provided by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1092. Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator.
Sec. 1093. Sense of Congress on the inadvertent transfer of anthrax from 
          the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1094. Modification of certain requirements applicable to major 
          medical facility lease for a Department of Veterans Affairs 
          outpatient clinic in Tulsa, Oklahoma.
Sec. 1095. Authorization of fiscal year 2015 major medical facility 
          projects of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 1096. Designation of construction agent for certain construction 
          projects by Department of Veterans Affairs.
Sec. 1097. Department of Defense strategy for countering unconventional 
          warfare.

                     Subtitle A--Financial Matters

SEC. 1001. GENERAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority to Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this division for fiscal year 2016 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof). Amounts of authorizations so transferred 
    shall be merged with and be available for the same purposes as the 
    authorization to which transferred.
        (2) Limitation.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the total 
    amount of authorizations that the Secretary may transfer under the 
    authority of this section may not exceed $4,500,000,000.
        (3) Exception for transfers between military personnel 
    authorizations.--A transfer of funds between military personnel 
    authorizations under title IV shall not be counted toward the 
    dollar limitation in paragraph (2).
    (b) Limitations.--The authority provided by subsection (a) to 
transfer authorizations--
        (1) may only be used to provide authority for items that have a 
    higher priority than the items from which authority is transferred; 
    and
        (2) may not be used to provide authority for an item that has 
    been denied authorization by Congress.
    (c) Effect on Authorization Amounts.--A transfer made from one 
account to another under the authority of this section shall be deemed 
to increase the amount authorized for the account to which the amount 
is transferred by an amount equal to the amount transferred.
    (d) Notice to Congress.--The Secretary shall promptly notify 
Congress of each transfer made under subsection (a).
SEC. 1002. ACCOUNTING STANDARDS TO VALUE CERTAIN PROPERTY, PLANT, AND 
EQUIPMENT ITEMS.
    (a) Requirement for Certain Accounting Standards.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall work in coordination with the Federal Accounting 
Standards Advisory Board to establish accounting standards to value 
large and unordinary general property, plant, and equipment items.
    (b) Deadline.--The accounting standards required by subsection (a) 
shall be established by not later than September 30, 2017, and be 
available for use for the full audit on the financial statements of the 
Department of Defense for fiscal year 2018, as required by section 
1003(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 842; 10 U.S.C. 2222 note).
SEC. 1003. REPORT ON AUDITABLE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report ranking all military departments and Defense 
Agencies in order of how advanced they are in achieving auditable 
financial statements as required by law. The report should not include 
information otherwise available in other reports to Congress.
SEC. 1004. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON SEQUESTRATION.
    It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the fiscal challenges of the Federal Government are a top 
    priority for Congress, and sequestration--non-strategic, across-
    the-board budget cuts--remains an unreasonable and inadequate 
    budgeting tool to address the deficits and debt of the Federal 
    Government;
        (2) budget caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 
    (Public Law 112-25) impose unacceptable limitations on the budget 
    and increase risk to the national security of the United States; 
    and
        (3) the budget caps imposed by the Budget Control Act of 2011 
    must be modified or eliminated through a bipartisan legislative 
    agreement.
SEC. 1005. ANNUAL AUDIT OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE COMPONENTS BY INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL AUDITORS.
    (a) Audits Required.--For purposes of satisfying the requirement 
under section 3521(e) of title 31, United States Code, for audits of 
financial statements of Department of Defense components identified by 
the Director of the Office of Management and Budget under section 
3515(c) of such title, the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense shall obtain each year audits of the financial statements of 
each such component by an independent external auditor.
    (b) Selection of Auditors.--The selection of independent external 
auditors for purposes of subsection (a) shall be based, among other 
appropriate criteria, on their qualifications, independence, and 
capacity to conduct audits described in subsection (a) in accordance 
with applicable generally accepted government auditing standards. The 
Inspector General shall participate in the selection of the independent 
external auditors.
    (c) Monitoring Audits.--The Inspector General shall monitor the 
conduct of all audits by independent external auditors under subsection 
(a).
    (d) Reports on Audits.--
        (1) In general.--The Inspector General shall require the 
    independent external auditors conducting audits under subsection 
    (a) to submit a report on their audits each year to--
            (A) the Under Secretary of Defense (Comptroller) as the 
        Chief Financial Officer of the Department of Defense for the 
        purposes of chapter 9 of title 31, United States Code;
            (B) the Controller of the Office of Federal Financial 
        Management in the Office of Management and Budget; and
            (C) the appropriate committees of Congress.
        (2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
    (e) Relationship to Existing Law.--The requirements of this 
section--
        (1) shall be implemented in a manner that is consistent with 
    the requirements of section 1008 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2002 (Public Law 107-107; 10 
    U.S.C. 113 note);
        (2) shall not be construed to alter the requirement under 
    section 3521(e) of title 31, United States Code, that the financial 
    statements of the Department of Defense as a whole be audited by 
    the Inspector General or by an independent external auditor, as 
    determined by the Inspector General; and
        (3) shall not be construed to limit or alter the authorities of 
    the Comptroller General of the United States under section 3521(g) 
    of title 31, United States Code.

                  Subtitle B--Counter-Drug Activities

SEC. 1011. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT UNIFIED COUNTERDRUG AND 
COUNTERTERRORISM CAMPAIGN IN COLOMBIA.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Section 1021 of the Ronald W. Reagan 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 
108-375; 118 Stat. 2042), as most recently amended by section 1011(a) 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3483), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
    ``2017''; and
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
    ``2017''.
    (b) Extension of Annual Notice to Congress on Assistance.--Section 
1011(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 is amended by striking 
``(as amended by subsection (a)) using funds available for fiscal year 
2015'' and inserting ``using funds available for any fiscal year''.
SEC. 1012. EXTENSION AND EXPANSION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ADDITIONAL 
SUPPORT FOR COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES OF CERTAIN FOREIGN GOVERNMENTS.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a)(2) of section 1033 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1998 (Public Law 105-85; 111 
Stat. 1881), as most recently amended by section 1013 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 844), is further amended by striking ``2016'' and inserting 
``2017''.
    (b) Additional Governments Eligible To Receive Support.--Subsection 
(b) of such section 1033, as so amended, is further amended by adding 
at the end of the following new paragraphs:
        ``(40) Government of Kenya.
        ``(41) Government of Tanzania.''.
    (c) Report on Use of Authority.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the appropriate committees of Congress a report on the authority to 
    provide additional support for counter-drug activities of foreign 
    governments in section 1033 of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 1998.
        (2) Elements.--The report shall include, at a minimum, the 
    following:
            (A) A description of the use of the authority over time, 
        and of the use of the authority as in effect during fiscal 
        years 2014 and 2015.
            (B) A description of the impetus for the expansion of the 
        countries eligible for assistance under the program.
            (C) A description of the impetus for the increases over 
        time in the amounts of fund requested for assistance under the 
        program.
            (D) A description of the processes through which priorities 
        are established for countries and regions to be assisted under 
        the program.
            (E) An assessment of the advantages and disadvantages of 
        providing assistance under the program on a country-by country 
        basis rather than providing such assistance on a global basis.
            (F) A description of the funding challenges, if any, 
        associated with providing assistance under the program on a 
        country-by country basis and with providing such assistance on 
        a global basis.
        (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.
SEC. 1013. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CENTRAL AMERICA.
    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) The stability and security of Central American nations have 
    a direct impact on the stability and security of the United States.
        (2) Over the past decade, increased stability and security in 
    the Republic of Colombia has displaced illicit trafficking to 
    Central America, bringing with it increased violence and 
    instability.
        (3) According to the Global Study on Homicide 2013 of the 
    United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, four of the top five 
    countries with the highest homicide rates in the world were Central 
    American nations, including Honduras, Belize, El Salvador, and 
    Guatemala.
        (4) In 2014, approximately 65,000 unaccompanied alien children 
    from Central America entered the United States through its 
    southwest border.
        (5) In November 2014, Guatemala, Honduras, and El Salvador 
    announced a Plan for the Alliance for Prosperity of the Northern 
    Triangle, which is a comprehensive approach to address the ongoing 
    violence and instability facing these three nations by stimulating 
    economic opportunities, improving public safety and rule of law, 
    and strengthening institutions to increase trust in the state.
        (6) The United States Government is supportive of the Alliance 
    for Prosperity, and President's strategy for support includes 
    $1,000,000,000 focused on promoting prosperity and regional 
    economic integration, enhancing security, and promoting improved 
    governance.
        (7) The Department of Defense continues to build the capacity 
    of our partners in the region to address their security challenges 
    and confront threats of mutual concern.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the United States should, to the extent practicable, 
    prioritize efforts to address the threatening levels of violence, 
    instability, illicit trafficking, and transnational organized crime 
    that challenge the sovereignty of Central American nations and the 
    security of the United States; and
        (2) in order to address such issues, the Department of Defense, 
    to the extent practicable, should--
            (A) increase its operations, as the lead agency of the 
        United States Government, to detect and monitor aerial and 
        maritime illicit trafficking into the United States;
            (B) increase its efforts to support aerial and maritime 
        illicit trafficking interdiction operations;
            (C) increase its operations to build the capacity of 
        partner nations in Central America to confront their own 
        security challenges;
            (D) support interagency programs and activities in Central 
        America addressing instability, including development, 
        education, economic, political, and security challenges; and
            (E) promote observance of and respect for human rights and 
        fundamental freedoms and respect for civilian control of the 
        military.

                Subtitle C--Naval Vessels and Shipyards

SEC. 1021. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION SUPPORTING LONG-RANGE PLANS FOR 
CONSTRUCTION OF NAVAL VESSELS.
    Section 231(b)(2)(C) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
inserting ``by ship class in both graphical and tabular form'' after 
``The estimated levels of annual funding''.
SEC. 1022. NATIONAL SEA-BASED DETERRENCE FUND.
    (a) Enhancement of Authority of Secretary of Navy to Use National 
Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.--Section 2218a of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (f) and (g) as subsections (i) 
    and (j), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsections:
    ``(f) Authority to Enter Into Economic Order Quantity Contracts.--
(1) The Secretary of the Navy may use funds deposited in the Fund to 
enter into contracts known as `economic order quantity contracts' with 
private shipyards and other commercial or government entities to 
achieve economic efficiencies based on production economies for major 
components or subsystems. The authority under this subsection extends 
to the procurement of parts, components, and systems (including weapon 
systems) common with and required for other nuclear powered vessels 
under joint economic order quantity contracts.
    ``(2) A contract entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide 
that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
contract is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose, and that total liability to the Government for termination of 
any contract entered into shall be limited to the total amount of 
funding obligated at time of termination.
    ``(g) Authority to Begin Manufacturing and Fabrication Efforts 
Prior to Ship Authorization.--(1) The Secretary of the Navy may use 
funds deposited into the Fund to enter into contracts for advance 
construction of national sea-based deterrence vessels to support 
achieving cost savings through workload management, manufacturing 
efficiencies, or workforce stability, or to phase fabrication 
activities within shipyard and manage sub-tier manufacturer capacity.
    ``(2) A contract entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide 
that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
contract is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose, and that total liability to the Government for termination of 
any contract entered into shall be limited to the total amount of 
funding obligated at time of termination.
    ``(h) Authority to Use Incremental Funding to Enter Into Contracts 
for Certain Items.--(1) The Secretary of the Navy may use funds 
deposited into the Fund to enter into incrementally funded contracts 
for advance procurement of high value, long lead time items for nuclear 
powered vessels to better support construction schedules and achieve 
cost savings through schedule reductions and properly phased 
installment payments.
    ``(2) A contract entered into under paragraph (1) shall provide 
that any obligation of the United States to make a payment under the 
contract is subject to the availability of appropriations for that 
purpose, and that total liability to the Government for termination of 
any contract entered into shall be limited to the total amount of 
funding obligated at time of termination.''.
    (b) Modification and Extension of Authority to Transfer Funds.--
Section 1022(b)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3487) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``or 2016'' and inserting ``2016, or 2017''; 
    and
        (2) by striking ``for the Navy for the Ohio Replacement 
    Program'' and inserting ``for the Department of Defense''.
SEC. 1023. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF EXPENSES FOR 
CERTAIN NAVY MESS OPERATIONS AFLOAT.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (b) of section 1014 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4585), as amended by section 1021 of the Ike Skelton 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 
111-383, 124 Stat. 4348), is amended by striking ``September 30, 2015'' 
and inserting ``September 30, 2020''.
    (b) Technical and Clarifying Amendments.--Subsection (a) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``not 
    more that'' and inserting ``not more than''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``Naval vessels'' and 
    inserting ``such vessels''.
SEC. 1024. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OR INACTIVATION OF 
TICONDEROGA CLASS CRUISERS OR DOCK LANDING SHIPS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 
2016 may be obligated or expended to retire, prepare to retire, 
inactivate, or place in storage a cruiser or dock landing ship, except 
as provided in section 1026(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3490).
SEC. 1025. LIMITATION ON THE USE OF FUNDS FOR REMOVAL OF BALLISTIC 
MISSILE DEFENSE CAPABILITIES FROM TICONDEROGA CLASS CRUISERS.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be used to 
remove ballistic missile defense capabilities from any of the 5 
Ticonderoga class cruisers equipped with such capabilities until the 
Secretary of the Navy certifies to the congressional defense committees 
that the Navy has--
        (1) obtained the ballistic missile defense capabilities 
    required by the most recent Navy Force Structure Assessment;
        (2) entered into a modernization of such cruisers that will 
    provide an equal or improved ballistic missile defense capability; 
    or
        (3) obtained at least 40 large surface combatants with 
    ballistic missile defense capability.
SEC. 1026. INDEPENDENT ASSESSMENT OF UNITED STATES COMBAT LOGISTIC 
FORCE REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Assessment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall seek to enter 
    into an agreement with a federally funded research and development 
    center with appropriate expertise and analytical capability to 
    conduct an assessment of the anticipated future demands of the 
    combat logistics force ships of the Navy and the challenges such 
    ships may face when conducting and supporting future naval 
    operations in contested maritime environments.
        (2) Elements.--The assessment under paragraph (1) shall include 
    the following:
            (A) An assessment of the programmed ability of the United 
        States Combat Logistic Force to support the Navy and the naval 
        forces of allies of the United States that are operating in a 
        dispersed manner and not concentrated in carrier or 
        expeditionary strike groups, in accordance with the concept of 
        distributed lethality of the Navy.
            (B) An assessment of the programmed ability of the United 
        States Combat Logistic Force to support the Navy and the naval 
        forces of allies of the United States that are engaged in major 
        combat operations against an adversary possessing maritime 
        anti-access and area-denial capabilities, including anti-ship 
        ballistic and cruise missiles, land-based maritime strike 
        aircraft, submarines, and sea mines.
            (C) An assessment of the programmed ability of the United 
        States Combat Logistic Force to support distributed and 
        expeditionary air operations from an expanded set of 
        alternative and austere air bases in accordance with concepts 
        under development by the Air Force and the Marine Corps.
            (D) An assessment of gaps and deficiencies in the 
        capability and capacity of the United States Combat Logistic 
        Force to conduct and support operations of the United States 
        and allies under the conditions described in subparagraphs (A), 
        (B), and (C).
            (E) Recommendations for adjustments to the programmed 
        ability of the United States Combat Logistic Force to address 
        capability and capacity gaps and deficiencies described in 
        subparagraph (D).
            (F) Any other matters the federally funded research and 
        development center considers appropriate.
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    report that includes the assessment under subsection (a) and any 
    other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
        (2) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (c) Support.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide the federally 
funded research and development center that conducts the assessment 
under subsection (a) with timely access to appropriate information, 
data, resources, and analyses necessary for the center to conduct such 
assessment thoroughly and independently.

                      Subtitle D--Counterterrorism

SEC. 1031. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RELEASE OF 
INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, 
CUBA, TO THE UNITED STATES.
    No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made 
available for the Department of Defense may be used during the period 
beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on 
December 31, 2016, to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or 
release to or within the United States, its territories, or possessions 
of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed or any other detainee who--
        (1) is not a United States citizen or a member of the Armed 
    Forces of the United States; and
        (2) is or was held on or after January 20, 2009, at United 
    States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, by the Department of 
    Defense.
SEC. 1032. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS TO CONSTRUCT OR MODIFY 
FACILITIES IN THE UNITED STATES TO HOUSE DETAINEES TRANSFERRED FROM 
UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    (a) In General.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available for the Department of Defense may be used 
during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and ending on December 31, 2016, to construct or modify any facility in 
the United States, its territories, or possessions to house any 
individual detained at Guantanamo for the purposes of detention or 
imprisonment in the custody or under the control of the Department of 
Defense unless authorized by Congress.
    (b) Exception.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any modification of facilities at United States Naval Station, 
Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
    (c) Individual Detained at Guantanamo Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' has the meaning given 
that term in section 1034(f)(2).
SEC. 1033. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR TRANSFER OR RELEASE TO 
CERTAIN COUNTRIES OF INDIVIDUALS DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    No amounts authorized to be appropriated or otherwise available for 
the Department of Defense may be used during the period beginning on 
the date of the enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2016, 
to transfer, release, or assist in the transfer or release of any 
individual detained in the custody or under the control of the 
Department of Defense at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
Cuba, to the custody or control of any country, or any entity within 
such country, as follows:
        (1) Libya.
        (2) Somalia.
        (3) Syria.
        (4) Yemen.
SEC. 1034. REENACTMENT AND MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN PRIOR REQUIREMENTS 
FOR CERTIFICATIONS RELATING TO TRANSFER OF DETAINEES AT UNITED STATES 
NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, TO FOREIGN COUNTRIES AND OTHER 
FOREIGN ENTITIES.
    (a) Certification Required Prior to Transfer.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Defense may not use any amounts authorized to be 
    appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of Defense to 
    transfer any individual detained at Guantanamo to the custody or 
    control of the individual's country of origin, any other foreign 
    country, or any other foreign entity unless the Secretary submits 
    to the appropriate committees of Congress the certification 
    described in subsection (b) not later than 30 days before the 
    transfer of the individual.
        (2) Exception.--Paragraph (1) shall not apply to any action 
    taken by the Secretary to transfer any individual detained at 
    Guantanamo to effectuate an order affecting the disposition of the 
    individual that is issued by a court or competent tribunal of the 
    United States having lawful jurisdiction (which the Secretary shall 
    notify the appropriate committees of Congress of promptly after 
    issuance).
    (b) Certification.--A certification described in this subsection is 
a written certification made by the Secretary that--
        (1) the transfer concerned is in the national security 
    interests of the United States;
        (2) the government of the foreign country or the recognized 
    leadership of the foreign entity to which the individual detained 
    at Guantanamo concerned is to be transferred--
            (A) is not a designated state sponsor of terrorism or a 
        designated foreign terrorist organization;
            (B) maintains control over each detention facility in which 
        the individual is to be detained if the individual is to be 
        housed in a detention facility;
            (C) has taken or agreed to take appropriate steps to 
        substantially mitigate any risk the individual could attempt to 
        reengage in terrorist activity or otherwise threaten the United 
        States or its allies or interests; and
            (D) has agreed to share with the United States any 
        information that is related to the individual;
        (3) if the country to which the individual is to be transferred 
    is a country to which the United States transferred an individual 
    who was detained at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
    Cuba, at any time after September 11, 2001, and such transferred 
    individual subsequently engaged in any terrorist activity, the 
    Secretary has--
            (A) considered such circumstances; and
            (B) determined that the actions to be taken as described in 
        paragraph (2)(C) will substantially mitigate the risk of 
        recidivism with regard to the individual to be transferred; and
        (4) includes an intelligence assessment, in classified or 
    unclassified form, of the capacity, willingness, and past practices 
    (if applicable) of the foreign country or foreign entity concerned 
    in relation to the certification of the Secretary under this 
    subsection.
    (c) Coordination With Prohibition on Transfer to Certain 
Countries.--While the prohibition in section 1033 is in effect, no 
certification may be made under subsection (b) in connection with the 
transfer of an individual detained at Guantanamo to a country specified 
in such section.
    (d) Record of Cooperation.--In assessing the risk that an 
individual detained at Guantanamo will engage in terrorist activity or 
other actions that could affect the national security of the United 
States if released for the purpose of making a certification under 
subsection (b), the Secretary may give favorable consideration to any 
such individual--
        (1) who has substantially cooperated with United States 
    intelligence and law enforcement authorities, pursuant to a pre-
    trial agreement, while in the custody of or under the effective 
    control of the Department of Defense; and
        (2) for whom agreements and effective mechanisms are in place, 
    to the extent relevant and necessary, to provide for continued 
    cooperation with United States intelligence and law enforcement 
    authorities.
    (e) Report.--Whenever the Secretary makes a certification under 
subsection (b) with respect to an individual detained at Guantanamo, 
the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress, 
together with such certification, a report that shall include, at a 
minimum, the following:
        (1) A detailed statement of the basis for the transfer of the 
    individual.
        (2) An explanation why the transfer of the individual is in the 
    national security interests of the United States.
        (3) A description of actions taken to mitigate the risks of 
    reengagement by the individual as described in subsection 
    (b)(2)(C), including any actions taken to address factors relevant 
    to an applicable prior case of reengagement described in subsection 
    (b)(3).
        (4) A copy of any Periodic Review Board findings relating to 
    the individual.
        (5) A copy of the final recommendation by the Guantanamo 
    Detainee Review Task Force established pursuant to Executive Order 
    13492 relating to the individual and, if applicable, updated 
    information related to any change to such recommendation.
        (6) An assessment whether, as of the date of the certification, 
    the country to which the individual is to be transferred is facing 
    a threat that could substantially affect its ability to exercise 
    control over the individual.
        (7) A classified summary of--
            (A) the individual's record of cooperation, if any, while 
        in the custody of or under the effective control of the 
        Department of Defense; and
            (B) any agreements and mechanisms in place to provide for 
        continuing cooperation.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) The term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means any 
    individual located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
    Cuba, as of October 1, 2009, who--
            (A) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (B) is--
                (i) in the custody or under the control of the 
            Department of Defense; or
                (ii) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
        (3) The term ``foreign terrorist organization'' means any 
    organization so designated by the Secretary of State under section 
    219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189).
        (4) The term ``state sponsor of terrorism'' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 301(13) of the Comprehensive Iran 
    Sanctions, Accountability, and Divestment Act of 2010 (22 U.S.C. 
    8541(13)).
    (g) Repeal of Superseded Requirements and Limitations.--Section 
1035 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 851; 10 U.S.C. 801 note) is repealed.
SEC. 1035. COMPREHENSIVE DETENTION STRATEGY.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Attorney General and the Director of National Intelligence, 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth 
the details of a comprehensive strategy for the detention of current 
and future individuals captured and held pursuant to the Authorization 
for Use of Military Force (Public Law 107-40) pending the end of 
hostilities.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall contain 
the following:
        (1) The specific facility or facilities that are intended to be 
    used, or modified to be used, to hold individuals for purpose of 
    trial and incarceration after conviction or detention and 
    interrogation pursuant to the law of armed conflict.
        (2) The estimated costs associated with the detention of 
    individuals detained for purpose of trial, incarceration after 
    conviction, or continued detention under the law of armed conflict, 
    including the costs of--
            (A) improvements, additions, or changes to each facility 
        specified pursuant to paragraph (1);
            (B) construction of new facilities, if any;
            (C) maintenance, operation, and sustainment of any such 
        facility;
            (D) security;
            (E) military, civilian, and contractor support personnel; 
        and
            (F) other matters associated with support of detention 
        operations.
        (3) A plan for the disposition of such individuals if the 
    authority to continue detaining an individual pursuant to the law 
    of armed conflict were to expire while such individual is being 
    detained, and an assessment of possible actions that could be taken 
    to mitigate any adverse implications of such a scenario to the 
    national security interests of the United States.
        (4) A plan for the disposition of individuals held pursuant to 
    the Authorization for Use of Military Force who are currently 
    detained at the United States Naval Base, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
        (5) A plan for the disposition of future detainees held 
    pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military Force.
        (6) The additional authorities, if any, necessary to detain an 
    individual pursuant to the law of armed conflict as an unprivileged 
    enemy belligerent pursuant to the Authorization for Use of Military 
    Force pending the end of hostilities or a future determination by 
    the Secretary of Defense that such individual no longer requires 
    continued detention.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1036. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR REALIGNMENT OF FORCES AT OR 
CLOSURE OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    (a) Prohibition on Use of Funds.--No amounts authorized to be 
appropriated or otherwise made available for the Department of Defense 
for fiscal year 2016 may be used--
        (1) to close or abandon United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
    Bay, Cuba;
        (2) to relinquish control of Guantanamo Bay to the Republic of 
    Cuba; or
        (3) to implement a material modification to the Treaty Between 
    the United States of America and Cuba signed at Washington, D.C. on 
    May 29, 1934 that constructively closes United States Naval 
    Station, Guantanamo Bay.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a report setting forth an 
    assessment of the military implications of United States Naval 
    Station Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
        (2) Elements.--The report shall include the following:
            (A) An historical analysis of the use and significance of 
        the basing at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay.
            (B) A description of the personnel, resources, and base 
        operations based out of United States Naval Station, Guantanamo 
        Bay, as of the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (C) An assessment of the role of United States Naval 
        Station, Guantanamo Bay, in support of the National Security 
        Strategy, the National Defense Strategy, and the National 
        Military Strategy.
            (D) An assessment of the missions and military requirements 
        that United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, currently 
        supports.
            (E) A description of the uses of United States Naval 
        Station, Guantanamo Bay, by other departments and agencies of 
        the United States Government.
            (F) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 1037. REPORT ON CURRENT DETAINEES AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA, DETERMINED OR ASSESSED TO BE HIGH RISK OR MEDIUM 
RISK.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate committees and members of Congress a report setting forth a 
list of the individuals detained at Guantanamo as of the date of the 
enactment of this Act who have been determined or assessed by Joint 
Task Force Guantanamo, at any time before the date of the report, to be 
a high-risk or medium-risk threat to the United States, its interests, 
or its allies.
    (b) Elements.--The report under subsection (a) shall set forth, for 
each individual covered by the report, the following:
        (1) The name and country of origin.
        (2) The date on which first designated or assessed as a high-
    risk or medium-risk threat to the United States, its interests, or 
    its allies, and an assessment of the justification for the 
    designation or assessment.
        (3) Whether, as of the date of the report, currently designated 
    or assessed as a high-risk or medium-risk threat to the United 
    States, its interests, or its allies.
        (4) If the designation or assessment changed between the date 
    specified pursuant to paragraph (2) and the date of the report--
            (A) the new designation or assessment to which changed;
            (B) the year and month in which the designation or 
        assessment changed; and
            (C) information on, and a justification for, the change in 
        designation or assessment.
        (5) To the extent practicable, without jeopardizing 
    intelligence sources and methods--
            (A) prior actions in support of terrorism, hostile actions 
        against the United States or its allies, gross violations of 
        human rights, and other violations of international law; and
            (B) any affiliations with al Qaeda, al Qaeda affiliates, or 
        other terrorist groups.
    (c) Form.--The report under subsection (a) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form to the maximum extent practicable, but may include a 
classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees and members of Congress'' 
    means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        Senate;
            (B) the Majority Leader and the Minority Leader of the 
        Senate;
            (C) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives; and
            (D) the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
        Minority Leader of the House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means any 
    individual located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
    Cuba, as of October 1, 2009, who--
            (A) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (B) is--
                (i) in the custody or under the control of the 
            Department of Defense; or
                (ii) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
SEC. 1038. REPORTS TO CONGRESS ON CONTACT BETWEEN TERRORISTS AND 
INDIVIDUALS FORMERLY DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, 
GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    (a) In General.--Section 319(c) of the Supplemental Appropriations 
Act, 2009 (Public Law 111-32; 123 Stat. 1874; 10 U.S.C. 801 note) is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(6) A summary of all known contact between any individual 
    formerly detained at Naval Station Guantanamo Bay and any 
    individual known or suspected to be associated with a foreign 
    terrorist group, which contact included information or discussion 
    about planning for or conduct of hostilities against the United 
    States or its allies or the organizational, logistical, or resource 
    needs or activities of any terrorist group or activity.''.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in the amendment made by 
subsection (a) shall be construed to terminate, alter, modify, 
override, or otherwise affect any reporting of information required 
under section 319(c) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 
before the date of the enactment of this section.
SEC. 1039. INCLUSION IN REPORTS TO CONGRESS OF INFORMATION ABOUT 
RECIDIVISM OF INDIVIDUALS FORMERLY DETAINED AT UNITED STATES NAVAL 
STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    Section 319(c) of the Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2009 (Public 
Law 111-32; 123 Stat. 1874; 10 U.S.C. 801 note), as amended by section 
1038, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
paragraphs:
        ``(7) For each individual described in paragraph (4), the date 
    on which such individual was released or transferred from Naval 
    Station Guantanamo Bay and the date on which it is confirmed that 
    such individual is suspected or confirmed of reengaging in 
    terrorist activities.
        ``(8) The average period of time described in paragraph (7) for 
    all the individuals described in paragraph (4).''.
SEC. 1040. REPORT TO CONGRESS ON TERMS OF WRITTEN AGREEMENTS WITH 
FOREIGN COUNTRIES REGARDING TRANSFER OF DETAINEES AT UNITED STATES 
NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO BAY, CUBA.
    (a) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
    of State shall jointly submit to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress a report describing the terms of any written agreement 
    between the United States Government and the government of the 
    foreign country concerned regarding each individual detained at 
    Guantanamo who was transferred to a foreign country pursuant to a 
    negotiated transfer.
        (2) Statement on lack of written agreement.--If an individual 
    detained at Guantanamo was transferred to a foreign country 
    pursuant to a negotiated transfer and no written agreement exists 
    between the United States Government and the government of the 
    foreign country regarding the transfer of such individual, the 
    report under paragraph (1) shall include an unclassified statement 
    of that fact.
        (3) Arrangements when lack of written agreement.--The report 
    under paragraph (1) shall also provide a description of the types 
    and frequency of arrangements or assurances applicable to 
    negotiated transfers covered by paragraph (2).
        (4) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) may be submitted in 
    classified form, except as provided in paragraph (2).
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) The term ``individual detained at Guantanamo'' means any 
    individual located at United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, 
    Cuba, as of October 1, 2009, who--
            (A) is not a citizen of the United States or a member of 
        the Armed Forces of the United States; and
            (B) is--
                (i) in the custody or under the control of the 
            Department of Defense; or
                (ii) otherwise under detention at United States Naval 
            Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba.
SEC. 1041. REPORT ON USE OF UNITED STATES NAVAL STATION, GUANTANAMO 
BAY, CUBA, AND OTHER DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE OR BUREAU OF PRISONS PRISONS 
OR DETENTION OR DISCIPLINARY FACILITIES IN RECRUITMENT OR OTHER 
PROPAGANDA OF TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS.
    Not later than six months after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Director 
of National Intelligence, submit to Congress a report on the use by 
terrorist organizations and their leaders of images and symbols 
relating to United States Naval Station, Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and any 
other Department of Defense or Bureau of Prisons prison or other 
detention or disciplinary facility for recruitment and other propaganda 
purposes. The report shall include the following:
        (1) a description of the use by terrorist organizations and 
    their leaders of images and symbols relating to United States Naval 
    Station, Guantanamo Bay, and any other Department of Defense or 
    Bureau of Prisons prison or other detention or disciplinary 
    facility for recruitment or other propaganda purposes.
        (2) A description and assessment of--
            (A) the effectiveness of the use of such images and symbols 
        for recruitment and other propaganda purposes during the period 
        beginning on September 11, 2001, and ending on the date of the 
        report; and
            (B) the extent to which such images and symbols continue to 
        be used for recruitment or other propaganda purposes.
        (3) A description and assessment of the efforts of the United 
    States Government to counter the use of such images and symbols for 
    recruitment and other propaganda purposes and to disseminate 
    accurate information about such facilities.
SEC. 1042. PERMANENT AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE REWARDS THROUGH GOVERNMENT 
PERSONNEL OF ALLIED FORCES AND CERTAIN OTHER MODIFICATIONS TO 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE PROGRAM TO PROVIDE REWARDS.
    (a) In General.--Subsection (c)(3) of section 127b of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``subparagraphs (B) and 
    (C)'' and inserting ``subparagraph (B)''; and
        (2) by striking subparagraphs (C) and (D).
    (b) Modification of Reporting Requirements.--Subsection (f)(2) of 
such section is amended--
        (1) by striking subparagraph (D);
        (2) by redesignating subparagraphs (E), (F), and (G), as 
    subparagraphs (D), (E), and (F), respectively; and
        (3) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated by paragraph (2), by 
    inserting before the period at the end the following: ``, including 
    in which countries the program is being operated''.
    (c) Report on Designation of Countries for Which Rewards May Be 
Paid.--Such section is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new subsection:
    ``(h) Report on Designation of Countries for Which Rewards May Be 
Paid.--Not later than 15 days after the date on which the Secretary 
designates a country as a country in which an operation or activity of 
the armed forces is occurring in connection with which rewards may be 
paid under this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees 
on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
report on the designation. Each report shall include the following:
        ``(1) The country so designated.
        ``(2) The reason for the designation of the country.
        ``(3) A justification for the designation of the country for 
    purposes of this section.''.
    (d) Clerical Amendments.--
        (1) Section heading.--The heading of such section is amended to 
    read as follows:
``Sec. 127b. Department of Defense rewards program''.
        (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 3 of such title is amended by striking the item relating 
    to section 127b and inserting the following new item:

``127b. Department of Defense rewards program.''.
SEC. 1043. SUNSET ON EXCEPTION TO CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION OF 
SENSITIVE MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    Section 130f(e) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The notification''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(2) The exception in paragraph (1) shall cease to be in effect at 
the close of December 31, 2017.''.
SEC. 1044. REPEAL OF SEMIANNUAL REPORTS ON OBLIGATION AND EXPENDITURE 
OF FUNDS FOR THE COMBATING TERRORISM PROGRAM.
    Section 229 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
SEC. 1045. LIMITATION ON INTERROGATION TECHNIQUES.
    (a) Limitation on Interrogation Techniques to Those in the Army 
Field Manual.--
        (1) Army field manual 2-22.3 defined.--In this subsection, the 
    term ``Army Field Manual 2-22.3'' means the Army Field Manual 2-
    22.3 entitled ``Human Intelligence Collector Operations'' in effect 
    on the date of the enactment of this Act or any similar successor 
    Army Field Manual.
        (2) Restriction.--
            (A) In general.--An individual described in subparagraph 
        (B) shall not be subjected to any interrogation technique or 
        approach, or any treatment related to interrogation, that is 
        not authorized by and listed in the Army Field Manual 2-22.3.
            (B) Individual described.--An individual described in this 
        subparagraph is an individual who is--
                (i) in the custody or under the effective control of an 
            officer, employee, or other agent of the United States 
            Government; or
                (ii) detained within a facility owned, operated, or 
            controlled by a department or agency of the United States, 
            in any armed conflict.
        (3) Implementation.--Interrogation techniques, approaches, and 
    treatments described in Army Field Manual 2-22.3 shall be 
    implemented strictly in accord with the principles, processes, 
    conditions, and limitations prescribed by Army Field Manual 2-22.3.
        (4) Agencies other than the department of defense.--If a 
    process required by Army Field Manual 2-22.3, such as a requirement 
    of approval by a specified Department of Defense official, is 
    inapposite to a department or an agency other than the Department 
    of Defense, the head of such department or agency shall ensure that 
    a process that is substantially equivalent to the process 
    prescribed by Army Field Manual 2-22.3 for the Department of 
    Defense is utilized by all officers, employees, or other agents of 
    such department or agency.
        (5) Interrogation by federal law enforcement.--The limitations 
    in this subsection shall not apply to officers, employees, or 
    agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Department of 
    Homeland Security, or other Federal law enforcement entities.
        (6) Update of the army field manual.--
            (A) Requirement to update.--
                (i) In general.--Not sooner than three years after the 
            date of the enactment of this Act, and once every three 
            years thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in consultation 
            with the Attorney General, the Director of the Federal 
            Bureau of Investigation, and the Director of National 
            Intelligence, shall complete a thorough review of Army 
            Field Manual 2-22.3, and revise Army Field Manual 2-22.3, 
            as necessary to ensure that Army Field Manual 2-22.3 
            complies with the legal obligations of the United States 
            and the practices for interrogation described therein do 
            not involve the use or threat of force.
                (ii) Availability to the public.--Army Field Manual 2-
            22.3 shall remain available to the public and any revisions 
            to the Army Field Manual 2-22.3 adopted by the Secretary of 
            Defense shall be made available to the public 30 days prior 
            to the date the revisions take effect.
            (B) Report on best practices of interrogations.--
                (i) Requirement for report.--Not later than 120 days 
            after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
            interagency body established pursuant to Executive Order 
            13491 (commonly known as the High-Value Detainee 
            Interrogation Group) shall submit to the Secretary of 
            Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, the 
            Attorney General, and other appropriate officials a report 
            on best practices for interrogation that do not involve the 
            use of force.
                (ii) Recommendations.--The report required by clause 
            (i) may include recommendations for revisions to Army Field 
            Manual 2-22.3 based on the body of research commissioned by 
            the High-Value Detainee Interrogation Group.
                (iii) Availability to the public.--Not later than 30 
            days after the report required by clause (i) is submitted 
            such report shall be made available to the public.
    (b) International Committee of the Red Cross Access to Detainees.--
        (1) Requirement.--The head of any department or agency of the 
    United States Government shall provide the International Committee 
    of the Red Cross with notification of, and prompt access to, any 
    individual detained in any armed conflict in the custody or under 
    the effective control of an officer, employee, contractor, 
    subcontractor, or other agent of the United States Government or 
    detained within a facility owned, operated, or effectively 
    controlled by a department, agency, contractor, or subcontractor of 
    the United States Government, consistent with Department of Defense 
    regulations and policies.
        (2) Construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall be 
    construed--
            (A) to create or otherwise imply the authority to detain; 
        or
            (B) to limit or otherwise affect any other individual 
        rights or state obligations which may arise under United States 
        law or international agreements to which the United States is a 
        party, including the Geneva Conventions, or to state all of the 
        situations under which notification to and access for the 
        International Committee of the Red Cross is required or 
        allowed.

         Subtitle E--Miscellaneous Authorities and Limitations

SEC. 1051. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EXCESS PROPERTY PROGRAM.
    (a) Website Required.--Section 2576a of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Publicly Accessible Website.--(1) The Secretary shall create 
and maintain a publicly available Internet website that provides 
information on the controlled property transferred under this section 
and the recipients of such property.
    ``(2) The contents of the Internet website required under paragraph 
(1) shall include all publicly accessible unclassified information 
pertaining to the request, transfer, denial, and repossession of 
controlled property under this section, including--
        ``(A) a current inventory of all controlled property 
    transferred to Federal and State agencies under this section, 
    listed by the name of the recipient and the year of the transfer;
        ``(B) all pending requests for transfers of controlled property 
    under this section, including the information submitted by the 
    Federal and State agencies requesting such transfers; and
        ``(C) all reports required to be submitted to the Secretary 
    under this section by Federal and State agencies that receive 
    controlled property under this section.''.
    (b) Conditions for Transfer.--Subsection (b) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period and inserting ``; 
    and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(5) the recipient, on an annual basis, and with the 
    authorization of the relevant local governing body or authority, 
    certifies that it has adopted publicly available protocols for the 
    appropriate use of controlled property, the supervision of such 
    use, and the evaluation of the effectiveness of such use, including 
    auditing and accountability policies; and
        ``(6) after the completion of the assessment required by 
    section 1051(e) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2016, the recipient, on an annual basis, certifies that 
    it provides annual training to relevant personnel on the 
    maintenance, sustainment, and appropriate use of controlled 
    property.''.
    (c) Definition of Controlled Property.--Such section is further 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Controlled Property.--In this section, the term `controlled 
property' means any item assigned a demilitarization code of B, C, D, 
E, G, or Q under Department of Defense Manual 4160.21-M, `Defense 
Materiel Disposition Manual', or any successor document.''.
    (d) Examination of Training Requirements.--The Secretary of Defense 
shall enter into an agreement with a federally funded research and 
development center for the conduct of an assessment of the Department 
of Defense excess property program under section 2576a of title 10, 
United States Code, as amended by this section. Such assessment shall 
include--
        (1) an evaluation of the policies and controls governing the 
    determination of the suitability of recipients of controlled 
    property transferred under the program, including specific 
    recommendations relating to the training that Federal and State 
    agencies that receive such property should receive, at no cost to 
    the Department of Defense, to ensure proficiency in the use, 
    maintenance, and sustainment of such property; and
        (2) an analysis of reported statistics on controlled property 
    transfers, the incidence of controlled property that is unaccounted 
    for, and the effectiveness of the policies and procedures governing 
    the return of controlled property transferred under the program to 
    the Department of Defense.
    (e) One-year Mandatory Use Policy Assessment.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall enter into an agreement with a federally funded research 
and development center for the conduct of an assessment of the 
Department of Defense excess property program under section 2576a of 
title 10, United States Code, as amended by this section, to determine 
if the requirement that all controlled property transferred under the 
program be used within one year of being transferred is achieving its 
intended effect. Such assessment shall include recommendations on 
process improvement, including legislative proposals.
    (f) Comptroller General Assessment.--Not later than one year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
United States shall conduct an assessment of the Department of Defense 
excess property program under section 2576a of title 10, United States 
Code, as amended by this section. Such assessment shall include--
        (1) an evaluation of the transfer of controlled property under 
    the program, including the manner in which the property was used by 
    Federal and State agencies and the effectiveness of the Internet 
    website required under subsection (e) of section 2576a of title 10, 
    United States Code, as added by subsection (a), in providing 
    transparency to the public; and
        (2) a determination of whether the transfer of property under 
    the program enhances the ability of Federal and State agencies to 
    carry out counter-drug and counter-terrorism activities in 
    accordance with the purposes of the program as set forth in section 
    2576a of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1052. SALE OR DONATION OF EXCESS PERSONAL PROPERTY FOR BORDER 
SECURITY ACTIVITIES.
    Section 2576a of title 10, United States Code, as amended by 
section 1051 is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking ``counter-drug and 
        counter-terrorism activities'' and inserting ``counterdrug, 
        counterterrorism, and border security activities''; and
            (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``the Attorney General 
        and the Director of National Drug Control Policy'' and 
        inserting ``the Attorney General, the Director of National Drug 
        Control Policy, and the Secretary of Homeland Security, as 
        appropriate''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``counter-drug or counter-
    terrorism activities'' and inserting ``counterdrug, 
    counterterrorism, or border security activities''.
SEC. 1053. MANAGEMENT OF MILITARY TECHNICIANS.
    (a) Conversion of Certain Military Technician (dual Status) 
Positions to Civilian Positions.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall convert not 
    fewer than 20 percent of the positions described in paragraph (2) 
    as of January 1, 2017, from military technician (dual status) 
    positions to positions filled by individuals who are employed under 
    section 3101 of title 5, United States Code, and are not military 
    technicians.
        (2) Covered positions.--The positions described in this 
    paragraph are military technician (dual status) positions as 
    follows:
            (A) Military technician (dual status) positions identified 
        as general administration, clerical, finance, and office 
        service occupations in the report of the Secretary of Defense 
        under section 519 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1397).
            (B) Such other military technician (dual status) positions 
        as the Secretary shall specify for purposes of this subsection.
        (3) Treatment of incumbents.--In the case of a position 
    converted under paragraph (1) for which there is an incumbent 
    employee, the Secretary may fill that position, as converted, with 
    the incumbent employee without regard to any requirement concerning 
    competition or competitive hiring procedures.
    (b) Phased-in Termination of Army Reserve, Air Force Reserve, and 
National Guard Non-dual Status Technicians.--
        (1) In general.--Section 10217 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(e) Phased-in Termination of Positions.--(1) No individual may be 
newly hired or employed, or rehired or reemployed, as a non-dual status 
technician for the purposes of this section after December 31, 2016.
    ``(2) Commencing January 1, 2017, the maximum number of non-dual 
status technicians employable by the Army Reserve and by the Air Force 
Reserve shall be reduced from the number otherwise provided by 
subsection (c)(1) by one for each individual who retires, is separated 
from, or otherwise ceases service as a non-dual status technician of 
the Army Reserve or the Air Force Reserve, as the case may be, after 
such date until the maximum number of non-dual status technicians 
employable by the Army Reserve or the Air Force Reserve, as the case 
may be, is zero.
    ``(3) Commencing January 1, 2017, the maximum number of non-dual 
status technicians employable by the National Guard shall be reduced 
from the number otherwise provided by subsection (c)(2) by one for each 
individual who retires, is separated from, or otherwise ceases service 
as a non-dual status technician of the National Guard after such date 
until the maximum number of non-dual status technicians employable by 
the National Guard is zero.
    ``(4) Any individual newly hired or employed, or rehired or 
employed, to a position required to be filled by reason of the 
amendment made by paragraph (1) shall be an individual employed in such 
position under section 3101 of title 5, and may not be a military 
technician.
    ``(5) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to terminate 
the status as a non-dual status technician under this section after 
December 31, 2016, of any individual who is a non-dual status 
technician for the purposes of this section on that date.''.
        (2) Report on phased-in terminations.--Not later than February 
    1, 2016, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report 
    setting forth a plan for implementing the amendment made by 
    paragraph (1).
SEC. 1054. LIMITATION ON TRANSFER OF CERTAIN AH-64 APACHE HELICOPTERS 
FROM ARMY NATIONAL GUARD TO REGULAR ARMY AND RELATED PERSONNEL LEVELS.
    Section 1712 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3668) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``March 31, 2016'' and 
    inserting ``June 30, 2016''; and
        (2) in subsection (e), by striking ``March 31, 2016'' and 
    inserting ``June 30, 2016'' both places it appears.
SEC. 1055. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE TRAINING AND SUPPORT TO PERSONNEL OF 
FOREIGN MINISTRIES OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Authority.--Section 1081 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 168 note), as 
amended by section 1047 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3494), is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as subsections 
    (c) through (f), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (a) the following new 
    subsection (b):
    ``(b) Training of Personnel of Foreign Ministries With Security 
Missions.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may, with the 
    concurrence of the Secretary of State, carry out a program to 
    provide training and associated training support services to 
    personnel of foreign ministries of defense (or ministries with 
    security force oversight) or regional organizations with security 
    missions--
            ``(A) for the purpose of--
                ``(i) enhancing civilian oversight of foreign security 
            forces;
                ``(ii) establishing responsible defense governance and 
            internal controls in order to help build effective, 
            transparent, and accountable defense institutions;
                ``(iii) assessing organizational weaknesses and 
            establishing a roadmap for addressing shortfalls; and
                ``(iv) enhancing ministerial, general or joint staff, 
            or service level core management competencies; and
            ``(B) for such other purposes as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate, consistent with the authority in subsection (a).
        ``(2) Notice to congress.--Each fiscal year quarter, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate committees of 
    Congress a report on activities under the program under paragraph 
    (1) during the preceding fiscal year quarter. Each report shall 
    include, for the fiscal year quarter covered by such report, the 
    following:
            ``(A) A list of activities under the program.
            ``(B) A list of any organization described in paragraph (1) 
        to which the Secretary assigned employees under the program, 
        including the number of such employees so assigned, the 
        duration of each assignment, a brief description of each 
        assigned employee's activities, and a statement of the cost of 
        each assignment.
            ``(C) A comprehensive justification of any activities 
        conducted pursuant to paragraph (1)(B).''.
    (b) Termination of Authority.--Subsection (c) of such section, as 
redesignated by subsection (a)(1) of this section, is amended in 
paragraph (1) by striking ``of the Secretary of Defense'' and all that 
follows and inserting ``in this section terminates at the close of 
December 31, 2017.''.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by inserting ``Ministry of Defense 
    Advisor'' before ``Authority'';
        (2) in subsections (d) and (e), as redesignated by subsection 
    (a)(1) of this section, by striking ``the Committees on Armed 
    Services and Foreign Relations of the Senate and the Committees on 
    Armed Services and Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives'' and inserting ``the appropriate committees of 
    Congress''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(g) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
        ``(1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        ``(2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.''.
    (d) Clerical and Conforming Amendment to Section Heading to Reflect 
Name of Program.--
        (1) Conforming amendment.--The heading of such section is 
    amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 1081. DEFENSE INSTITUTION CAPACITY BUILDING PROGRAM.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents in section 2(b) 
    of such Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    1081 and inserting the following new item:

``Sec. 1081. Defense Institution Capacity Building Program.''.
SEC. 1056. INFORMATION OPERATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT TECHNOLOGY 
DEMONSTRATIONS.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) military information support operations are a critical 
    component of the efforts of the Department of Defense to provide 
    commanders with capabilities to shape the operational environment;
        (2) military information support operations are integral to 
    armed conflict and therefore the Secretary of Defense has broad 
    latitude to conduct military information support operations;
        (3) the Secretary of Defense should develop creative and agile 
    concepts, technologies, and strategies across all available media 
    to most effectively reach target audiences, to counter and degrade 
    the ability of adversaries and potential adversaries to persuade, 
    inspire, and recruit inside areas of hostilities or in other areas 
    in direct support of the objectives of commanders; and
        (4) the Secretary of Defense should request additional funds in 
    future budgets to carry out military information support operations 
    to support the broader efforts of the Government to counter violent 
    extremism.
    (b) Technology Demonstrations Required.--To support the ability of 
the Department of Defense to provide innovative operational concepts 
and technologies to shape the informational environment, the Secretary 
of Defense shall carry out a series of technology demonstrations, 
subject to the availability of funds for such purpose or to a prior 
approval reprogramming, to assess innovative new technologies for 
information operations and information engagement to support the 
operational and strategic requirements of the commanders of the 
geographic and functional combatant commands, including the urgent and 
emergent operational needs and the operational and theater campaign 
plans of such combatant commanders to further the national security 
objectives and strategic communications requirements of the United 
States.
    (c) Plan.--By not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
congressional defense committees a plan describing how the Department 
of Defense will execute the technology demonstrations required under 
subsection (b). Such plan shall include each of the following elements:
        (1) A general timeline for conducting the technology 
    demonstrations.
        (2) Clearly defined goals and endstate objectives for the 
    demonstrations, including traceability of such goals to the 
    tactical, operational, or strategic requirements of the combatant 
    commanders.
        (3) A process for measuring the performance and effectiveness 
    of the demonstrations.
        (4) A coordination structure to include participation between 
    the technology development and the operational communities, 
    including potentially joint, interagency, intergovernmental, and 
    multinational partners.
        (5) The identification of potential technologies to support the 
    tactical, operational, or strategic needs of the combatant 
    commanders.
        (6) An explanation of how such technologies will support and 
    coordinate with elements of joint, interagency, intergovernmental, 
    and multinational partners.
    (d) Congressional Notice.--Upon initiating a technology 
demonstration under subsection (b), the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees written notice of the 
demonstration that includes a detailed description of the 
demonstration, including its purpose, cost, engagement medium, targeted 
audience, and any other details the Secretary of Defense believes will 
assist the committees in evaluating the demonstration.
    (e) Termination.--The authority to carry out a technology 
demonstration under this section shall terminate on September 30, 2022.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to limit or alter any authority under which the Department of 
Defense supports information operations activities within the 
Department.
SEC. 1057. PROHIBITION ON USE OF FUNDS FOR RETIREMENT OF HELICOPTER SEA 
COMBAT SQUADRON 84 AND 85 AIRCRAFT.
    (a) Prohibitions.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2016 for the Navy may be obligated or 
expended to--
        (1) retire, prepare to retire, transfer, or place in storage 
    any Helicopter Sea Combat Squadron 84 (HSC-84) or Helicopter Sea 
    Combat Squadron 85 (HSC-85) aircraft; or
        (2) make any changes to manning levels with respect to any HSC-
    84 or HSC-85 aircraft squadron.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of the Navy may waive subsection (a), if 
the Secretary certifies to the congressional defense committees that 
the Secretary has--
        (1) conducted a cost-benefit analysis identifying savings to 
    Department of the Navy regarding decommissioning or deactivation of 
    an HSC-84 or HSC-85 squadron;
        (2) identified a replacement capability that would be available 
    if prioritized and directed by the Secretary of Defense and would 
    meet all operational requirements, including special operational-
    peculiar requirements of the combatant commands, currently being 
    met by the HSC-84 or HSC-85 squadrons and aircraft to be retired, 
    transferred, or placed in storage; and
        (3) deployed such capability.
SEC. 1058. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DESTRUCTION OF 
CERTAIN LANDMINES AND REPORT ON DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY AND 
INVENTORY OF ANTI-PERSONNEL LANDMINE MUNITIONS.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided under subsection (b), none of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended for the destruction of anti-personnel landmine 
munitions before the date on which the Secretary of Defense submits the 
report required by subsection (c).
    (b) Exception for Safety.--The limitation under subsection (a) 
shall not apply to any anti-personnel landmine munitions that the 
Secretary determines are unsafe or could pose a safety risk if not 
demilitarized or destroyed.
    (c) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after enactment of 
    this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a 
    report that includes each of the following:
            (A) A description of the policy of the Department of 
        Defense regarding the use of anti-personnel landmines, 
        including methods for commanders to seek waivers to use such 
        munitions.
            (B) A 10-year projection of the inventory levels for all 
        anti-personnel landmine munitions that takes into account 
        future production of anti-personnel landmine munitions, any 
        plans for demilitarization of such munitions, the age of the 
        munitions, storage and safety considerations, and other factors 
        that will impact the size of the inventory.
            (C) A 10-year projection for the cost to achieve the 
        inventory levels projected in subparagraph (B), including the 
        cost for potential demilitarization or disposal of such 
        munitions.
            (D) A 10-year projection for the cost to develop and 
        produce new anti-personnel landmine munitions the Secretary 
        determines are necessary to meet the demands of current 
        operational plans.
            (E) An assessment, by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
        Staff, of the effects of the projected anti-personnel landmine 
        inventory on current operational plans.
            (F) Any other matters that the Secretary determines should 
        be included in the report.
        (2) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
    (d) Anti-personnel Landmine Munitions Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``anti-personnel landmine munitions'' includes anti-personnel 
landmines and sub-munitions as defined by the Convention on the 
Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, Production and Transfer of Anti-
Personnel Mines and on their Destruction, as determined by the 
Secretary.
SEC. 1059. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO 
SECURE THE SOUTHERN LAND BORDER OF THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Authority to Provide Assistance.--The Secretary of Defense may 
provide assistance to United States Customs and Border Protection for 
purposes of increasing ongoing efforts to secure the southern land 
border of the United States.
    (b) Concurrence in Assistance.--Assistance under subsection (a) 
shall be provided with the concurrence of the Secretary of Homeland 
Security.
    (c) Types of Assistance Authorized.--The assistance provided under 
subsection (a) may include the following:
        (1) Deployment of members and units of the regular and reserve 
    components of the Armed Forces to the southern land border of the 
    United States.
        (2) Deployment of manned aircraft, unmanned aerial surveillance 
    systems, and ground-based surveillance systems to support 
    continuous surveillance of the southern land border of the United 
    States.
        (3) Intelligence analysis support.
    (d) Materiel and Logistical Support.--The Secretary of Defense is 
authorized to deploy such materiel and equipment and logistics support 
as is necessary to ensure the effectiveness of assistance provided 
under subsection (a).
    (e) Funding.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated for the 
Department of Defense by this Act, the Secretary of Defense may use up 
to $75,000,000 to provide assistance under subsection (a).
    (f) Reports.--At the end of each three-month period during which 
assistance is provided under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense, 
in coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland 
Security and Government Affairs of the Senate a report on the provision 
of such assistance during that period. Each report shall include, for 
the period covered by the report, the following:
        (1) A description of the assistance provided.
        (2) A description of the sources and amounts of funds used to 
    provide such assistance.
        (3) A description of the amounts obligated to provide such 
    assistance.
        (4) An assessment of the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of 
    such assistance in support of the Department of Homeland Security's 
    objectives and strategy to address the challenges on the southern 
    land border of the United States and recommendations, if any, to 
    enhance the effectiveness of such assistance.

                    Subtitle F--Studies and Reports

SEC. 1060. PROVISION OF DEFENSE PLANNING GUIDANCE AND CONTINGENCY 
PLANNING GUIDANCE INFORMATION TO CONGRESS.
    (a) In General.--Section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(3) At the time of the budget submission by the President for a 
fiscal year, the Secretary of Defense shall include in the budget 
materials submitted to Congress for that year summaries of the guidance 
developed under paragraphs (1) and (2), as well as summaries of any 
plans developed in accordance with the guidance developed under 
paragraph (2). Such summaries shall be sufficient to allow the 
congressional defense committees to evaluate fully the requirements for 
military forces, acquisition programs, and operation and maintenance 
funding in the President's annual budget request for the Department of 
Defense.''.
    (b) Report Required.--Notwithstanding the requirement under 
paragraph (3) of section 113(g) of title 10, United States Code, as 
added by subsection (a), that the Secretary of Defense submit summaries 
under that paragraph at the time of the President's annual budget 
submission, by not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report containing--
        (1) summaries of the guidance developed under paragraphs (1) 
    and (2) of subsection (g) of section 113 of title 10, United States 
    Code; and
        (2) summaries of any plans developed in accordance with the 
    guidance developed under paragraph (2) of such subsection.
SEC. 1061. EXPEDITED MEETINGS OF THE NATIONAL COMMISSION ON THE FUTURE 
OF THE ARMY.
    Section 1702(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3665) is amended by 
adding at the end the following new sentence: ``Section 10 of the 
Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App. I) shall not apply to a 
meeting of the Commission unless the meeting is attended by five or 
more members of the Commission.''.
SEC. 1062. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REPORTS SUBMITTED BY COMPTROLLER 
GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Report on NNSA Budget Requests.--Section 3255(a)(2) of the 
National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2455(a)(2)) is 
amended by inserting before ``, the Comptroller General'' the 
following: ``in an even-numbered year, and not later than 150 days 
after the date on which the Administrator submits such materials in an 
odd-numbered year''.
    (b) Report on Environmental Management.--Section 3134 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2713), as amended by section 3134(a) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 2193), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``a series of three reviews, 
    as described in subsections (b), (c), and (d),'' and inserting 
    ``reviews as described in subsections (b) and (c)'';
        (2) by striking subsection (d); and
        (3) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
SEC. 1063. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE GEOGRAPHICALLY DISTRIBUTED 
FORCE LAYDOWN IN THE AREA OF RESPONSIBILITY OF UNITED STATES PACIFIC 
COMMAND.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary 
of Defense, in consultation with the Commander of the United States 
Pacific Command, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report on Department of Defense plans for implementing the 
geographically distributed force laydown in the area of responsibility 
of United States Pacific Command.
    (b) Matters to Be Included.--The report required under subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
        (1) A description of the force laydown.
        (2) A discussion of how the force laydown affects the 
    operational and contingency plans in the area of responsibility of 
    United States Pacific Command, including a discussion on how 
    timeliness, availability of forces, and risk in meeting the 
    military objectives contained in those plans are affected.
        (3) A discussion of the specific support asset requirements 
    derived from the force laydown, including logistical sustainment, 
    pre-positioned stocks, sea and air lift and, command and control.
        (4) A discussion of the specific infrastructure and military 
    construction requirements derived from the force laydown.
        (5) A discussion on how Department of Defense plans to meet the 
    requirements identified in paragraphs (3) and (4), including the 
    ability of United States Transportation Command, the United States 
    Combat Logistics Force, and the Armed Forces to meet those 
    requirements.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines to be 
    appropriate.
    (c) Form.--The report required under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1064. INDEPENDENT STUDY OF NATIONAL SECURITY STRATEGY FORMULATION 
PROCESS.
    (a) Requirement for Study.--The Secretary of Defense shall enter 
into a contract with an independent research entity described in 
subsection (c) to carry out a comprehensive study of the role of the 
Department of Defense in the formulation of national security strategy.
    (b) Matters Covered.--The study required by subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) Several case studies of the role of the Department of 
    Defense and its process for the formulation of previous national 
    security strategies in place throughout the history of the United 
    States, with specific emphasis on the development and execution of 
    previous strategies, as well as the factors that contributed to the 
    development and execution of successful previous strategies with 
    specific emphasis on--
            (A) the frequency of strategy updates;
            (B) the synchronization of timelines and content among 
        different strategies;
            (C) the prioritization of objectives;
            (D) the assignment of roles and responsibilities among 
        relevant agencies;
            (E) the links between strategy and resourcing;
            (F) the implementation of strategy within the planning 
        documents of relevant agencies;
            (G) the value of a competition of ideas; and
            (H) recommendations for the executive and legislative 
        branches on the best practices and organizational lessons 
        learned for enabling the Department of Defense to formulate 
        long-term defense strategy.
        (2) A complete review and analysis of the current national 
    security strategy formulation process, as it relates to the 
    Department of Defense, including an analysis of the following:
            (A) All major Government products and documents of national 
        security strategy relevant to the Department of Defense and how 
        they fit together, including--
                (i) the National Military Strategy prepared by the 
            Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 
            153(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code;
                (ii) the most recent quadrennial defense review 
            conducted by the Secretary of Defense pursuant to section 
            118 of title 10, United States Code;
                (iii) the national security strategy report required 
            under section 108 of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
            U.S.C. 3043); and
                (iv) any other relevant national security strategy 
            products and documents.
            (B) The time periods during which the products and 
        documents covered by subparagraph (A) are prepared and 
        published, and how they fit together.
            (C) The interaction between the White House and the 
        agencies that develop such products and documents and formulate 
        strategy.
            (D) All the current entities in the Federal Government that 
        contribute to the national security strategy formulation 
        process and how they fit together.
    (c) Independent Research Entity.--The entity described in this 
subsection is an independent research entity that is a not-for-profit 
entity or a federally funded research and development center with 
appropriate expertise and analytical capability.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the independent research entity shall provide to 
the Secretary a report on the results of the study. Not later than 90 
days after receipt of the report, the Secretary shall submit such 
report, together with any additional views or recommendations of the 
Secretary, to the congressional defense committees.
SEC. 1065. REPORT ON THE STATUS OF DETECTION, IDENTIFICATION, AND 
DISABLEMENT CAPABILITIES RELATED TO REMOTELY PILOTED AIRCRAFT.
    Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report addressing the suitability of existing capabilities 
to detect, identify, and disable remotely piloted aircraft operating 
within special use and restricted airspace. The report shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the degree to which existing capabilities 
    to detect, identify, and potentially disable remotely piloted 
    aircraft within special use and restricted airspace are able to be 
    deployed and combat prevailing threats.
        (2) An assessment of existing gaps in capabilities related to 
    the detection, identification, or disablement of remotely piloted 
    aircraft within special use and restricted airspace.
        (3) A plan that outlines the extent to which existing research 
    and development programs within the Department of Defense can be 
    leveraged to fill identified capability gaps and/or the need to 
    establish new programs to address such gaps as are identified 
    pursuant to paragraph (2).
SEC. 1066. REPORT ON OPTIONS TO ACCELERATE THE TRAINING OF PILOTS OF 
REMOTELY PILOTED AIRCRAFT.
    Not later than February 1, 2016, the Secretary of the Air Force 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
addressing the immediate and critical training and operational needs of 
the remotely piloted aircraft community. The report shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the viability of using non-rated, 
    civilian, contractor, or enlisted pilots to execute remotely 
    piloted aircraft missions.
        (2) An assessment of the availability and existing utilization 
    of special use airspace available for remotely piloted aircraft 
    training and a plan for accessing additional special use airspace 
    in order to meet anticipated training requirements for remotely 
    piloted aircraft.
        (3) A comprehensive training plan aimed at increasing the 
    throughput of undergraduate remotely piloted aircraft training 
    without sacrificing quality and standards.
        (4) Establishment of an optimum ratio for the mix of training 
    airframes to operational airframes in the remotely piloted aircraft 
    inventory necessary to achieve manning requirements for pilots and 
    sensor operators and, to the extent practicable, a plan for 
    fielding additional remotely piloted aircraft airframes at the 
    formal training units in the active, National Guard, and reserve 
    components in accordance with optimum ratios for MQ-9 and Global 
    Hawk remotely piloted aircraft.
        (5) Establishment of optimum and minimum crew ratios to combat 
    air patrols taking into account all tasks remotely piloted aircraft 
    units execute and, to the extent practicable, a plan for conducting 
    missions in accordance with optimum ratios.
        (6) Identification of any resource, legislative, or 
    departmental policy challenges impeding the corrective action 
    needed to reach a sustainable remotely piloted aircraft operations 
    tempo.
        (7) An assessment, to the extent practicable, of the direct and 
    indirect impacts that the integration of remotely piloted aircraft 
    into the national airspace system has on the ability to generate 
    remotely piloted aircraft crews.
        (8) Any other matters the Secretary determines appropriate.
SEC. 1067. STUDIES OF FLEET PLATFORM ARCHITECTURES FOR THE NAVY.
    (a) Independent Studies.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the 
    performance of three independent studies of alternative future 
    fleet platform architectures for the Navy in the 2030 timeframe.
        (2) Submission to congress.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the 
    Secretary shall submit the results of each study to the 
    congressional defense committees.
        (3) Form.--Each such study shall be submitted in unclassified 
    form, but may contain a classified annex as necessary.
    (b) Entities to Perform Studies.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
provide for the studies under subsection (a) to be performed as 
follows:
        (1) One study shall be performed by the Department of the Navy 
    and shall include participants from--
            (A) the Office of Net Assessment within the Office of the 
        Secretary of Defense; and
            (B) the Naval Surface Warfare Center Dahlgren Division.
        (2) The second study shall be performed by a federally funded 
    research and development center.
        (3) The final study shall be conducted by an independent, non-
    governmental institute which is described in section 501(c)(3) of 
    the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and exempt from tax under 
    section 501(a) of such Code, and has recognized credentials and 
    expertise in national security and military affairs.
    (c) Performance of Studies.--
        (1) Independent performance.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    require the three studies under this section to be conducted 
    independently of each other.
        (2) Matters to be considered.--In performing a study under this 
    section, the organization performing the study, while being aware 
    of the current and projected fleet platform architectures, shall 
    not be limited by the current or projected fleet platform 
    architecture and shall consider the following matters:
            (A) The National Security Strategy of the United States.
            (B) Potential future threats to the United States and to 
        United States naval forces in the 2030 timeframe.
            (C) Traditional roles and missions of United States naval 
        forces.
            (D) Alternative roles and missions for United States naval 
        forces.
            (E) Other government and non-government analyses that would 
        contribute to the study through variations in study assumptions 
        or potential scenarios.
            (F) The role of evolving technology on future naval forces, 
        including unmanned systems.
            (G) Opportunities for reduced operation and sustainment 
        costs.
            (H) Current and projected capabilities of other United 
        States armed forces that could affect force structure 
        capability and capacity requirements of United States naval 
        forces.
    (d) Study Results.--The results of each study under this section 
shall--
        (1) present the alternative fleet platform architectures 
    considered, with assumptions and possible scenarios identified for 
    each;
        (2) provide for presentation of minority views of study 
    participants; and
        (3) for the recommended architecture, provide--
            (A) the numbers, kinds, and sizes of vessels, the numbers 
        and types of associated manned and unmanned vehicles, and the 
        basic capabilities of each of those platforms;
            (B) other information needed to understand that 
        architecture in basic form and the supporting analysis;
            (C) deviations from the current Annual Long-Range Plan for 
        Construction of Naval Vessels required under section 231 of 
        title 10, United States Code;
            (D) options to address ship classes that begin 
        decommissioning prior to 2035; and
            (E) implications for naval aviation, including the future 
        carrier air wing and land-based aviation platforms.
SEC. 1068. REPORT ON STRATEGY TO PROTECT UNITED STATES NATIONAL 
SECURITY INTERESTS IN THE ARCTIC REGION.
    (a) Report on Strategy Required.--Not later than one year after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a report that sets forth 
an updated military strategy for the protection of United States 
national security interests in the Arctic region.
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) A description of United States military interests in the 
    Arctic region.
        (2) A description of operational plans and military 
    requirements for the protection of United States national security 
    interests in the Arctic region, including United States citizens, 
    territory, freedom of navigation, and economic and trade interests.
        (3) An identification of any operational seams and a plan to 
    enhance unity of effort among the combatant commands with 
    responsibility for the Arctic region, as well as among the Armed 
    Forces.
        (4) A description of the security environment in the Arctic 
    region, including the activities of foreign nations operating 
    within the Arctic region.
        (5) A description of United States military capabilities 
    required to implement the strategy required by subsection (a).
        (6) An identification of any capability gaps and resource gaps, 
    including in installations, infrastructure, communications and 
    domain awareness, and personnel in the Arctic region, that would 
    impact the implementation of the strategy required by subsection 
    (a) or the execution of any associated operational plan, and a 
    mitigation plan to address such gaps.
        (7) An assessment of military-to-military cooperation with 
    partner nations that have mutual security interests in the Arctic 
    region, including opportunities for sharing installations and 
    maintenance facilities.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1069. COMPTROLLER GENERAL BRIEFING AND REPORT ON MAJOR MEDICAL 
FACILITY PROJECTS OF DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Briefing.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall provide to the appropriate committees of Congress a briefing on 
the administration and oversight by the Department of Veterans Affairs 
of contracts for the design and construction of major medical facility 
projects, as defined in section 8104(a)(3)(A) of title 38, United 
States Code.
    (b) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the administration and 
oversight described in subsection (a).
    (c) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) and the 
report required by subsection (b) shall each include an examination of 
the following:
        (1) The processes used by the Department for overseeing and 
    assuring the performance of construction design and construction 
    contracts for major medical facility projects, as so defined.
        (2) Any actions taken by the Department to improve the 
    administration of such contracts.
        (3) Such opportunities for further improvement of the 
    administration of such contracts as the Comptroller General 
    considers appropriate.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Subcommittee on 
    Military Construction, Veterans Affairs, and Related Agencies of 
    the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Veterans' Affairs and the Subcommittee on 
    Military Construction, Veterans Affairs and Related Agencies of the 
    Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1070. SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS OF MUNITIONS ASSESSMENTS.
    (a) Required Reports.--Not later than March 1, 2016, and annually 
thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees each of the following:
        (1) The most current munitions assessments, as defined by 
    Department of Defense Instruction Number 3000.04, relating to the 
    Department of Defense munitions process.
        (2) The most current sufficiency assessments, as defined by 
    such Department of Defense Instruction.
        (3) The most current approved memorandum of the Joint 
    Requirements Oversight Council resulting from the munitions 
    requirements process.
    (b) Sunset.--The requirement to submit reports and assessments 
under this section shall terminate on the date that is two years after 
the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1071. POTENTIAL ROLE FOR UNITED STATES GROUND FORCES IN THE 
WESTERN PACIFIC THEATER.
    (a) General Assessment Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of 
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall jointly conduct a comprehensive 
    assessment of potential roles for United States ground forces in 
    the western Pacific in cooperation with host nations to deter and 
    defeat aggression in the western Pacific region.
        (2) Capabilities to be examined.--The Secretary and the 
    Chairman shall assess the feasibility and potential effectiveness 
    of mobile United States ground forces operating jointly to 
    facilitate--
            (A) anti-access and area-denial capabilities in contested 
        sea lanes and airspace;
            (B) air defense capabilities;
            (C) electronic countermeasures capabilities;
            (D) command, control, communications, and logistics 
        capabilities;
            (E) littoral defenses; and
            (F) any other capabilities the Secretary and Chairman 
        determine to be appropriate.
    (b) Completion Date.--The assessment required by this section shall 
be completed by not later than one year after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
    (c) Briefing of Congress.--Upon the completion of the assessments 
required by this section, the Secretary and the Chairman shall provide 
a briefing on the assessment to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
Senate and House of Representatives.
SEC. 1072. REPEAL OR REVISION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO 
MILITARY PERSONNEL ISSUES.
    (a) Report on Foreign Language Proficiency Incentive Pay.--Section 
316a of title 37, United States Code, as amended by section 615(5) of 
this Act, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (f); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
    (b) Report on Use of Waiver Authority for Military Service Academy 
Appointments.--Section 553 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 10 U.S.C. 4346 note) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (e); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
    (c) Report on Increase in Junior Reserve Officers' Training Corps 
Units.--Subsection (e) of section 548 of the Duncan Hunter National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 
Stat. 4466) is repealed.
    (d) Report on Implementation of Yellow Ribbon Reintegration 
Program.--
        (1) Reporting requirement.--Section 582(e) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 
    10 U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended by striking paragraph (4).
        (2) Conforming repeal.--Section 597 of the National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 10 
    U.S.C. 10101 note) is repealed.
    (e) Report on Standards of Facilities.--Section 1648 of the Wounded 
Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 note) is 
amended by striking subsection (f).
    (f) Report on Inspections of Facilities.--Section 1662 of the 
Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of Public Law 110-181; 10 U.S.C. 1071 
note) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(a) Required Inspections of Facil-
    ities.--''; and
        (2) by striking subsection (b).
    (g) Report on Inspections of Other Facilities.--Section 3307 of the 
U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq 
Accountability Appropriations Act, 2007 (Public Law 110-28; 10 U.S.C. 
1073 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
    (h) Report on Local Educational Agency Assistance Related to DOD 
Activities.--Section 574 of the John Warner National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 20 U.S.C. 
7703b note) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) 
    and (d), respectively.
SEC. 1073. REPEAL OR REVISION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATING TO 
READINESS.
    (a) Biannual Reports on Allocation of Funds Within Operation and 
Maintenance Budget Subactivities.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by striking section 228.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    228.
    (b) Annual Report on Naval Petroleum Reserves.--Section 7431 of 
title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (c).
    (c) Annual Report on Army National Guard Combat Readiness.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 1013 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by striking section 10542.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by striking the item relating to section 
    10542.
    (d) GAO Report on In-kind Payments.--Section 2805 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 2149) is repealed.
    (e) Insider Threat Detection Budget Submission.--Section 922 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
112-81; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is amended by striking subsection (f).
    (f) Price Trend Analysis.--Section 892 of the Ike Skelton National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 
U.S.C. 2306a) is repealed.
    (g) Report on Authority for Airlift Transportation at Department of 
Defense Rates for Non-Department of Defense Federal Cargoes.--Section 
351 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 
(Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2262) is amended by striking subsection 
(b).
    (h) Biennial Report on Procurement of Military Working Dogs.--
Section 358 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
    (i) Report on Foreign Language Proficiency.--Section 958 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 
110-181; 122 Stat. 297) is repealed.
    (j) Report on Arsenal Support Program Initiative.--Section 343 of 
the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 10 U.S.C. 4551 note) 
is amended by striking subsection (g).
    (k) GAO Review of Contractor-operated Civil Engineering Supply 
Stores Program.--Section 345 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 
1978) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (d).
SEC. 1074. REPEAL OR REVISION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO 
NAVAL VESSELS AND MERCHANT MARINE.
    (a) Report on Naming of Naval Vessels.--Section 7292 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (d).
    (b) Report on Transfer of Vessels Stricken From Naval Vessel 
Register.--Section 7306 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (d); and
        (2) by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (d) 
    and (e), respectively.
    (c) Annual Report of Maritime Administration.--
        (1) Elimination of report and revision of remaining 
    requirement.--Section 50111 of title 46, United States Code, is 
    amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 50111. Submission of annual MARAD authorization request
    ``(a) Submission of Legislative Proposal.--Not later than 30 days 
after the date on which the President submits to Congress a budget for 
a fiscal year pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall submit to the Committee on Armed Services and the 
Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
Transportation of the Senate the Maritime Administration authorization 
request for that fiscal year.
    ``(b) Maritime Administration Request Defined.--In this section, 
the term `Maritime Administration authorization request' means a 
proposal for legislation that, for a fiscal year--
        ``(1) recommends authorizations of appropriations for the 
    Maritime Administration for that fiscal year, including with 
    respect to matters described in subsection 109(j) of title 49 or 
    authorized in subtitle V of this title; and
        ``(2) addresses any other matter with respect to the Maritime 
    Administration that the Secretary determines is appropriate.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 501 of title 46, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 50111 and inserting the 
    following new item:

``50111. Submission of annual MARAD authorization request.''.

    (d) Discretionary Report No Longer Needed.--The Secretary of the 
Navy is not required to submit to the congressional defense committees 
a report, or updates to such a report, on open architecture as 
described in Senate Report 110-077.
SEC. 1075. REPEAL OR REVISION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO 
CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.
    (a) Report on Pilot Program for Exchange of Information Technology 
Personnel.--Section 1110 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2493) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (i);
        (2) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (i); and
        (3) in subsection (i), as so redesignated, by striking 
    paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) any employee whose assignment is allowed to continue by 
    virtue of paragraph (1) shall be taken into account for purposes of 
    the numerical limitation under subsection (h).''.
    (b) Report on Experimental Program for Scientific and Technical 
Personnel.--Section 1101 of the Strom Thurmond National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1999 (Public Law 105-261; 112 Stat. 
2139) is amended by striking subsection (g).
SEC. 1076. REPEAL OR REVISION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO 
NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION AND RELATED MATTERS.
    (a) Report on Nuclear Weapons Council.--Section 179 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by striking subsection (g).
    (b) Report on Proliferation Security Initiative.--Section 1821(b) 
of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007 
(50 U.S.C. 2911(b)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(1) In General.--''; and
        (2) by striking paragraphs (2) and (3).
    (c) Briefings on Dialogue Between United States and Russian 
Federation on Nuclear Arms.--Section 1282 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2034; 22 U.S.C. 5951 note) is amended--
        (1) in the section heading, by striking ``briefings on 
    dialogue'' and inserting ``sense of congress on agreements'';
        (2) by striking subsection (a);
        (3) in subsection (b), by striking ``(b) Sense of Congress on 
    Certain Agreements.--''; and
        (4) by striking subsection (c).
    (d) Implementation Plan for Whole-of-government Vision Prescribed 
in the National Security Strategy.--Section 1072 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 
Stat. 1592; 50 U.S.C. 3043 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (b); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).
SEC. 1077. REPEAL OR REVISION OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO 
ACQUISITION.
    (a) Report on Cost Assessment Activities.--Section 2334 of title 
10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (f); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (g) as subsection (f).
    (b) Report on Performance Assessments and Root Cause Analyses.--
Section 2438 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking 
subsection (f).
SEC. 1078. REPEAL OR REVISION OF MISCELLANEOUS REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Report on Technological Maturity and Integration Risk of 
Critical Technologies.--Section 138(b)(8) of title 10, United States 
Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subparagraph (B);
        (2) by striking ``shall--'' and all that follows through 
    ``assess the technological maturity'' and inserting ``shall 
    periodically review and assess the technological maturity''; and
        (3) by striking ``; and'' and inserting a period.
    (b) Report on Systems Engineering.--Section 139b(d) of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (2);
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2);
        (3) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--
            (A) by striking ``or (2)'';
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``systems engineering 
        master plans and'';
            (C) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``, systems 
        engineering master plans,'';
            (D) in subparagraph (C); by striking ``systems engineering, 
        development planning,'' and inserting ``development planning''; 
        and
            (E) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (F);
        (4) by transferring subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (4) 
    to the end of paragraph (2), as so redesignated, and redesignating 
    those subparagraphs as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively; and
        (5) by striking paragraph (4).
    (c) Report on DARPA.--
        (1) Repeal.--Section 2352 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    repealed.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 139 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
    striking the item relating to section 2352.
    (d) Reports on Status of Navy Next Generation Enterprise Networks 
Program.--Section 1034 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4593) is repealed.
SEC. 1079. REPEAL OF REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) Annual Report on Prizes for Advanced Technology Achievements.--
Section 2374a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (e); and
        (2) by redesignating subsection (f) as subsection (e).
    (b) Annual Impact Statement on Number of Members in Integrated 
Disability Evaluation System on Readiness Requirements.--Section 528 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 
112-239; 126 Stat. 1725) is repealed.
    (c) Report on Task Force for Business and Stability Operations in 
Afghanistan.--Section 1535(a) of the Ike Skelton National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 
4426) is amended by striking paragraph (6).
    (d) Reports Under Public Law 110-417.--
        (1) Mitigation of power outage risks for department of defense 
    facilities and activities.--Section 335 of the Duncan Hunter Nation 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 
    122 Stat. 4422; 10 U.S.C. 2911 note) is amended by striking 
    subsection (c).
        (2) Annual reports on center of excellence on traumatic 
    extremity injuries and amputations.--Section 723 of the Duncan 
    Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 
    (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4508) is amended by striking (d).
    (e) Biennial Update of Strategic Management Plan.--Section 904(d) 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public 
Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 275) is amended by striking paragraph (3).
    (f) Roadmaps and Reports on Hypersonics Development.--Section 218 
of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2007 (Public Law 109-364; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (d), by striking paragraph (4); and
        (2) by striking subsection (f).
    (g) Reports on Annual Review of Roles and Missions of the Reserve 
Components.--Section 513(h) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 
1882; 10 U.S.C. 10101 note) is amended--
        (1) by striking paragraph (2); and
        (2) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).
    (h) Annual Submittal of Information Regarding Information 
Technology Capital Assets.--Section 351 of the Bob Stump National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 107-314; 10 
U.S.C. 221 note) is hereby repealed.
SEC. 1080. TERMINATION OF REQUIREMENT FOR SUBMITTAL TO CONGRESS OF 
REPORTS REQUIRED OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BY STATUTE.
    (a) Termination.--Effective on the date that is two years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, each report described in subsection 
(b) that is still required to be submitted to Congress as of such 
effective date shall no longer be required to be submitted to Congress.
    (b) Covered Reports.--A report described in this subsection is a 
report that is required to be submitted to Congress by the Department 
of Defense, or by any officer, official, component, or element of the 
Department, by any annual national defense authorization Act as of 
April 1, 2015.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than February 1, 2016, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report that includes each of the following:
        (1) A list of all reports described in subsection (b).
        (2) For each such report, a citation to the provision of law 
    under which the report is required to be submitted.
        (3) Draft legislation that would repeal each such report.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1081. TECHNICAL AND CLERICAL AMENDMENTS.
    (a) Amendments To Title 10, United States Code.--Title 10, United 
States Code, is amended as follows:
        (1) The tables of chapters at the beginning of subtitle A, and 
    at the beginning of part I of such subtitle, are each amended by 
    striking the item relating to chapter 19 and inserting the 
    following new item:

``19. Cyber Matters...............................................391''.

        (2) The heading of section 130e is amended to read as follows:
``Sec. 130e. Treatment under Freedom of Information Act of certain 
    critical infrastructure security information''.
        (3) The heading of section 153(a)(5) is amended to read as 
    follows: ``Joint Force Development Activities.--''.
        (4) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 19 is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 391 and inserting 
    the following new item:

``391. Reporting on cyber incidents with respect to networks and 
          information systems of operationally critical contractors and 
          certain other contractors.''.

        (5) The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter I of 
    chapter 21 is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 429 the following new item:

``430. Tactical Exploitation of National Capabilities Executive 
          Agent.''.

        (6) Section 2006a(a) is amended by striking ``August, 1'' and 
    inserting ``August 1''.
        (7) Sections 2222(j)(5), 2223(c)(3), and 2315 are each amended 
    by striking ``section 3552(b)(5)'' and inserting ``section 
    3552(b)(6)''.
        (8) Section 2229(d)(1) is amended by striking ``certification 
    in writing'' and inserting ``a certification in writing''.
        (9) Section 2679, as transferred, redesignated, and amended by 
    section 351 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3346), is amended in 
    subsection (a)(1) by striking ``with'' before ``, on a sole 
    source''.
        (10) Section 2684(d)(1) is amended by striking ``section 
    2023.01 of title 54'' and inserting ``section 302101 of title 54''.
        (11) Section 2687a(d)(2) is amended by inserting ``fair 
    market'' before ``value''.
        (12) Section 2926, as added and amended by section 901(g) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public 
    Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3464), is amended in subsections (a), (b), 
    (c), and (d) by striking ``for Installations, Energy,'' each place 
    it appears and inserting ``for Energy, Installations,''.
        (13) Section 9314a(b) is amended by striking ``only so long 
    at'' and inserting ``only so long as''.
    (b) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015.--
Effective as of December 19, 2014, and as if included therein as 
enacted, the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291) is amended as follows:
        (1) Section 351(b)(1) (128 Stat. 3346) is amended by striking 
    the period at the end of subparagraph (C) and inserting ``; and''.
        (2) Section 901(g)(1)(F) (128 Stat. 3465) is amended by 
    inserting ``paragraph (4) of'' before ``subsection (b) of section 
    2926''.
        (3) Section 1072(a)(2) (128 Stat. 3516) is amended by inserting 
    ``in the table of sections'' before ``at the beginning of''.
        (4) Section 1079(a)(1) (128 Stat. 3521) is amended by striking 
    ``section 12102 of title 42, United States Code'' and inserting 
    ``section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 
    U.S.C. 12102)''.
        (5) Section 1104(b)(2) (128 Stat. 3526) is amended by striking 
    ``paragraph (2)'' and inserting ``paragraph (1)(A)''.
        (6) Section 1208 (128 Stat. 3541) is amended by striking ``of 
    Fiscal Year'' each place it appears and inserting ``for Fiscal 
    Year''.
        (7) Section 2803(a) (128 Stat. 3696) is amended in paragraph 
    (2) of the subsection (f) being added by the amendment to be made 
    by that section by inserting ``section'' before ``1105 of title 
    31''.
        (8) Section 2832(c)(3) (128 Stat. 3704) is amended by striking 
    ``United State Code'' and inserting ``United States Code''.
    (c) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009.--
Section 943(d)(1) of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4578) by 
striking the second period at the end of the first sentence.
    (d) National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005.--
Section 1208(f)(2) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 
2086), as amended by section 1202(a) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 
363) and section 1202(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat 2512), is further 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating the paragraphs (1) through (8) added by 
    section 1202(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat 2512) as 
    subparagraphs (A) through (H), respectively; and
        (2) by moving the margins of such subparagraphs, as so 
    redesignated, two ems to the right.
    (e) Coordination With Other Amendments Made by This Act.--For 
purposes of applying amendments made by provisions of this Act other 
than this section, the amendments made by this section shall be treated 
as having been enacted immediately before any such amendments by other 
provisions of this Act.
SEC. 1082. SITUATIONS INVOLVING BOMBINGS OF PLACES OF PUBLIC USE, 
GOVERNMENT FACILITIES, PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS, AND 
INFRASTRUCTURE FACILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 18 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 383. Situations involving bombings of places of public use, 
   Government facilities, public transportation systems, and 
   infrastructure facilities
    ``(a) In General.--Upon the request of the Attorney General, the 
Secretary of Defense may provide assistance in support of Department of 
Justice activities related to the enforcement of section 2332f of title 
18 during situations involving bombings of places of public use, 
Government facilities, public transportation systems, and 
infrastructure facilities.
    ``(b) Rendering-safe Support.--Military explosive ordnance disposal 
units providing rendering-safe support to Department of Justice 
activities relating to the enforcement of section 175, 229, or 2332a of 
title 18 in emergency situations involving weapons of mass destruction 
shall provide such support in a manner consistent with the provisions 
of section 382 of this title.
    ``(c) Regulations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense and the Attorney 
General shall jointly prescribe regulations concerning the types of 
assistance that may be provided under this section. Such regulations 
shall also describe the actions that Department of Defense personnel 
may take in circumstances incident to the provision of assistance under 
this section.
    ``(2)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the regulations 
prescribed under paragraph (1) may not authorize any of the following 
actions:
        ``(i) Arrest.
        ``(ii) Any direct participation in conducting a search for or 
    seizure of evidence related to a violation of section 175, 229, or 
    2332a of title 18.
        ``(iii) Any direct participation in the collection of 
    intelligence for law enforcement purposes.
    ``(B) Such regulations may authorize an action described in 
subparagraph (A) to be taken under the following conditions:
        ``(i) The action is considered necessary for the immediate 
    protection of human life, and civilian law enforcement officials 
    are not capable of taking the action.
        ``(ii) The action is otherwise authorized under subsection (a) 
    or under otherwise applicable law.
    ``(d) Explosive Ordnance Defined.--The term `explosive ordnance'--
        ``(1) means--
            ``(A) bombs and warheads;
            ``(B) guided and ballistic missiles;
            ``(C) artillery, mortar, rocket, and small arms ammunition;
            ``(D) all mines, torpedoes, and depth charges;
            ``(E) grenades demolition charges;
            ``(F) pyrotechnics;
            ``(G) clusters and dispensers;
            ``(H) cartridge- and propellant- actuated devices;
            ``(I) electroexplosives devices;
            ``(J) clandestine and improvised explosive devices; and
            ``(K) all similar or related items or components explosive 
        in nature; and
        ``(2) includes all munitions containing explosives, 
    propellants, nuclear fission or fusion materials, and biological 
    and chemical agents.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``383. Situations involving bombings of places of public use, Government 
          facilities, public transportation systems, and infrastructure 
          facilities.''.
SEC. 1083. EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR THE OVERSIGHT AND MANAGEMENT OF 
ALTERNATIVE COMPENSATORY CONTROL MEASURES.
    (a) Executive Agent.--
        (1) In general.--Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 10, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end of the following new 
    section:
``Sec. 430a. Executive agent for management and oversight of 
    alternative compensatory control measures
    ``(a) Executive Agent.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate a 
senior official from among the personnel of the Department of Defense 
to act as the Department of Defense executive agent for the management 
and oversight of alternative compensatory control measures.
    ``(b) Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities.--The Secretary 
shall prescribe the roles, responsibilities, and authorities of the 
executive agent designated under subsection (a). Such roles, 
responsibilities, and authorities shall include the development of an 
annual management and oversight plan for Department-wide accountability 
and reporting to the congressional defense committees.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of subchapter I of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``430a. Executive agent for management and oversight of alternative 
          compensatory control measures.''.

    (b) Reports.--Not later than 30 days after the close of each of 
fiscal years 2016 through 2020, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report on the oversight and 
management of alternative compensatory control measures. Each such 
report shall include--
        (1) the annual management and oversight plan required under 
    section 430a(b) of title 10, United States Code, as added by 
    subsection (a);
        (2) a discussion of the scope and number of alternative 
    compensatory control measures in effect;
        (3) a brief description of each alternative compensatory 
    control measures program and of the number of individuals with 
    access to such program; and
        (4) any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
SEC. 1084. NAVY SUPPORT OF OCEAN RESEARCH ADVISORY PANEL.
    Section 7903 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by 
striking subsection (c).
SEC. 1085. LEVEL OF READINESS OF CIVIL RESERVE AIR FLEET CARRIERS.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) The National Airlift Policy states that ``[t]he national 
    defense airlift objective is to ensure that military and civil 
    airlift resources will be able to meet defense mobilization and 
    deployment requirements in support of US defense and foreign 
    policies.''.
        (2) The National Airlift Policy also emphasizes the need for 
    ``dialogue and cooperation with our national aviation industry,'' 
    and it states that ``[i]t is of particular importance that the 
    aviation industry be apprised by the Department of Defense of long-
    term requirements for airlift in support of national defense.''.
        (3) The National Airlift Policy emphasizes the importance of 
    both military and civil airlift resources and their interdependence 
    in the fulfillment of the national defense airlift objective, and 
    it states that the ``Department of Defense shall establish 
    appropriate levels for peacetime cargo airlift augmentation in 
    order to promote the effectiveness of Civil Reserve Air Fleet and 
    provide training within the military airlift system.''.
        (4) Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers continue to be an 
    important component of the military airlift system in support of 
    United States defense and foreign policies.
    (b) Level of Readiness of Civil Reserve Air Fleet Carriers.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 931 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 9517. Level of readiness of Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers
    ``The Civil Reserve Air Fleet program is an important component of 
the military airlift system in support of United States defense and 
foreign policies, and it is the policy of the United States to maintain 
the readiness and interoperability of Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers 
by providing appropriate levels of peacetime airlift augmentation to 
maintain networks and infrastructure, exercise the system, and 
interface effectively within the military airlift system.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new 
    item:

``9517. Level of Readiness of Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers.''.

        (3) Definition of civil reserve air fleet program.--Section 
    9511 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the 
    end the following new paragraph:
        ``(12) The term `Civil Reserve Air Fleet program' means the 
    program developed by the Department of Defense through which the 
    Department of Defense augments its airlift capability by use of 
    civil aircraft.''.
    (c) Report Requirement.--On the day the President submits the 
budget to Congress for each of fiscal years 2017 and 2018, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report that sets forth, 
for each fiscal year during the period covered by the current future-
years defense program under section 221 of title 10, United States 
Code, each of the following, expressed separately for passenger and 
cargo airlift services:
        (1) The results (including analytical and justification 
    materials) of an assessment, conducted in consultation with the 
    Civil Reserve Air Fleet carriers, of the level of commercial 
    airlift augmentation necessary to maintain the readiness and 
    interoperability of such carriers, maintain networks and 
    infrastructure, exercise the system, and facilitate the regular 
    interfacing between such carriers and the military airlift system, 
    which shall include--
            (A) a projection of the number of block hours necessary to 
        achieve such levels of commercial airlift augmentation;
            (B) a strategic plan for achieving such level of commercial 
        airlift augmentation; and
            (C) an explanation of any deviation from the previous 
        fiscal year's assessment of the projected number of block hours 
        under subparagraph (A).
        (2) A comparison (including analytical and justification 
    materials and explanations of any deviations) of the forecasted 
    number of block hours for each fiscal year of the period covered by 
    the report with the projected number of block hours under paragraph 
    (1)(A) for each such fiscal year.
SEC. 1086. REFORM AND IMPROVEMENT OF PERSONNEL SECURITY, INSIDER THREAT 
DETECTION AND PREVENTION, AND PHYSICAL SECURITY.
    (a) Personnel Security and Insider Threat Protection in Department 
of Defense.--
        (1) Plans and schedules.--Consistent with the Memorandum of the 
    Secretary of Defense dated March 18, 2014, regarding the 
    recommendations of the reviews of the Washington Navy Yard 
    shooting, the Secretary of Defense shall develop plans and 
    schedules--
            (A) to implement a continuous evaluation capability for the 
        national security population for which clearance adjudications 
        are conducted by the Department of Defense Central Adjudication 
        Facility, in coordination with the heads of other relevant 
        agencies;
            (B) to produce a Department-wide insider threat strategy 
        and implementation plan, which includes--
                (i) resourcing for the Defense Insider Threat 
            Management and Analysis Center and component insider threat 
            programs, and
                (ii) alignment of insider threat protection programs 
            with continuous evaluation capabilities and processes for 
            personnel security;
            (C) to centralize the authority, accountability, and 
        programmatic integration responsibilities, including fiscal 
        control, for personnel security and insider threat protection 
        under the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence;
            (D) to develop a defense security enterprise reform 
        investment strategy to ensure a consistent, long-term focus on 
        funding to strengthen all of the Department's security and 
        insider threat programs, policies, functions, and information 
        technology capabilities, including detecting threat behaviors 
        conveyed in the cyber domain, in a manner that keeps pace with 
        evolving threats and risks;
            (E) to resource and expedite deployment of the Identity 
        Management Enterprise Services Architecture; and
            (F) to implement the recommendations contained in the study 
        conducted by the Director of Cost Analysis and Program 
        Evaluation required by section 907 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 10 
        U.S.C. 1564 note), including, specifically, the recommendations 
        to centrally manage and regulate Department of Defense requests 
        for personnel security background investigations.
        (2) Reporting requirement.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    describing the plans and schedules required under paragraph (1).
    (b) Physical and Logical Access.--Not later than 270 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense shall define physical and logical 
    access standards, capabilities, and processes applicable to all 
    personnel with access to Department of Defense installations and 
    information technology systems, including--
            (A) periodic or regularized background or records checks 
        appropriate to the type of physical or logical access involved, 
        the security level, the category of individuals authorized, and 
        the level of access to be granted;
            (B) standards and methods for verifying the identity of 
        individuals seeking access; and
            (C) electronic attribute-based access controls that are 
        appropriate for the type of access and facility or information 
        technology system involved;
        (2) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget and the 
    Chair of the Performance Accountability Council, in coordination 
    with the Secretary of Defense, the Administrator of General 
    Services, and, when appropriate, the Director of National 
    Intelligence, and in consultation with representatives from 
    stakeholder organizations, shall design a capability to share and 
    apply electronic identity information across the Government to 
    enable real-time, risk-managed physical and logical access 
    decisions; and
        (3) the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, in 
    conjunction with the Director of the Office of Personnel Management 
    and in consultation with representatives from stakeholder 
    organizations, shall establish investigative and adjudicative 
    standards for the periodic or regularized reevaluation of the 
    eligibility of an individual to retain credentials issued pursuant 
    to Homeland Security Presidential Directive 12 (dated August 27, 
    2004), as appropriate, but not less frequently than the 
    authorization period of the issued credentials.
    (c) Security Enterprise Management.--Not later than 180 days after 
the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of 
Management and Budget shall--
        (1) formalize the Security, Suitability, and Credentialing Line 
    of Business; and
        (2) submit to the appropriate congressional committee a report 
    that describes plans--
            (A) for oversight by the Office of Management and Budget of 
        activities of the executive branch of the Government for 
        personnel security, suitability, and credentialing;
            (B) to designate enterprise shared services to optimize 
        investments;
            (C) to define and implement data standards to support 
        common electronic access to critical Government records; and
            (D) to reduce the burden placed on Government data 
        providers by centralizing requests for records access and 
        ensuring proper sharing of the data with appropriate 
        investigative and adjudicative elements.
    (d) Reciprocity Management.--Not later than two years after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Performance 
Accountability Council shall ensure that--
        (1) a centralized system is available to serve as the 
    reciprocity management system for the Federal Government; and
        (2) the centralized system described in paragraph (1) is 
    aligned with, and incorporates results from, continuous evaluation 
    and other enterprise reform initiatives.
    (e) Reporting Requirements Implementation.--Not later than 180 days 
after the date of enactment of this Act, the Chair of the Performance 
Accountability Council, in coordination with the Security Executive 
Agent, the Suitability Executive Agent, and the Secretary of Defense, 
shall jointly develop a plan to--
        (1) implement the Security Executive Agent Directive on common, 
    standardized employee and contractor security reporting 
    requirements;
        (2) establish and implement uniform reporting requirements for 
    employees and Federal contractors, according to risk, relative to 
    the safety of the workforce and protection of the most sensitive 
    information of the Government; and
        (3) ensure that reported information is shared appropriately.
    (f) Access to Criminal History Records for National Security and 
Other Purposes.--
        (1) Definition.--Section 9101(a) of title 5, United States 
    Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
        ``(7) The terms `Security Executive Agent' and `Suitability 
    Executive Agent' mean the Security Executive Agent and the 
    Suitability Executive Agent, respectively, established under 
    Executive Order 13467 (73 Fed. Reg. 38103), or any successor 
    thereto.''.
        (2) Covered agencies.--Section 9101(a)(6) of title 5, United 
    States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(G) The Department of Homeland Security.
            ``(H) The Office of the Director of National Intelligence.
            ``(I) An Executive agency that--
                ``(i) is authorized to conduct background 
            investigations under a Federal statute; or
                ``(ii) is delegated authority to conduct background 
            investigations in accordance with procedures established by 
            the Security Executive Agent or the Suitability Executive 
            Agent under subsection (b) or (c)(iv) of section 2.3 of 
            Executive Order 13467 (73 Fed. Reg. 38103), or any 
            successor thereto.
            ``(J) A contractor that conducts a background investigation 
        on behalf of an agency described in subparagraphs (A) through 
        (I).''.
        (3) Applicable purposes of investigations.--Section 9101(b)(1) 
    of title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (D) as 
        clauses (i) through (iv), respectively, and adjusting the 
        margins accordingly;
            (B) in the matter preceding clause (i), as redesignated--
                (i) by striking ``the head of'';
                (ii) by inserting ``all'' before ``criminal history 
            record information''; and
                (iii) by striking ``for the purpose of determining 
            eligibility for any of the following:'' and inserting ``, 
            in accordance with Federal Investigative Standards jointly 
            promulgated by the Suitability Executive Agent and Security 
            Executive Agent, for the purpose of--
        ``(A) determining eligibility for--'';
            (C) in clause (i), as redesignated--
                (i) by striking ``Access'' and inserting ``access''; 
            and
                (ii) by striking the period and inserting a semicolon;
            (D) in clause (ii), as redesignated--
                (i) by striking ``Assignment'' and inserting 
            ``assignment''; and
                (ii) by striking the period and inserting ``or 
            positions;'';
            (E) in clause (iii), as redesignated--
                (i) by striking ``Acceptance'' and inserting 
            ``acceptance''; and
                (ii) by striking the period and inserting ``; or'';
            (F) in clause (iv), as redesignated--
                (i) by striking ``Appointment'' and inserting 
            ``appointment'';
                (ii) by striking ``or a critical or sensitive 
            position''; and
                (iii) by striking the period and inserting ``; or''; 
            and
            (G) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(B) conducting a basic suitability or fitness assessment for 
    Federal or contractor employees, using Federal Investigative 
    Standards jointly promulgated by the Security Executive Agent and 
    the Suitability Executive Agent in accordance with--
            ``(i) Executive Order 13467 (73 Fed. Reg. 38103), or any 
        successor thereto; and
            ``(ii) the Office of Management and Budget Memorandum 
        `Assignment of Functions Relating to Coverage of Contractor 
        Employee Fitness in the Federal Investigative Standards', dated 
        December 6, 2012;
        ``(C) credentialing under the Homeland Security Presidential 
    Directive 12 (dated August 27, 2004); and
        ``(D) Federal Aviation Administration checks required under--
            ``(i) the Federal Aviation Administration Drug Enforcement 
        Assistance Act of 1988 (subtitle E of title VII of Public Law 
        100-690; 102 Stat. 4424) and the amendments made by that Act; 
        or
            ``(ii) section 44710 of title 49.''.
        (4) Biometric and biographic searches.--Section 9101(b)(2) of 
    title 5, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:
    ``(2)(A) A State central criminal history record depository shall 
allow a covered agency to conduct both biometric and biographic 
searches of criminal history record information.
    ``(B) Nothing in subparagraph (A) shall be construed to prohibit 
the Federal Bureau of Investigation from requiring a request for 
criminal history record information to be accompanied by the 
fingerprints of the individual who is the subject of the request.''.
        (5) Use of most cost-effective system.--Section 9101(e) of 
    title 5, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the 
    following:
    ``(6) If a criminal justice agency is able to provide the same 
information through more than 1 system described in paragraph (1), a 
covered agency may request information under subsection (b) from the 
criminal justice agency, and require the criminal justice agency to 
provide the information, using the system that is most cost-effective 
for the Federal Government.''.
        (6) Sealed or expunged records; juvenile records.--
            (A) In general.--Section 9101(a)(2) of title 5, United 
        States Code, is amended by striking the third sentence and 
        inserting the following: ``The term includes those records of a 
        State or locality sealed pursuant to law if such records are 
        accessible by State and local criminal justice agencies for the 
        purpose of conducting background checks.''.
            (B) Regulations.--
                (i) Definition.--In this subparagraph, the terms 
            ``Security Executive Agent'' and ``Suitability Executive 
            Agent'' mean the Security Executive Agent and the 
            Suitability Executive Agent, respectively, established 
            under Executive Order 13467 (73 Fed. Reg. 38103), or any 
            successor thereto.
                (ii) Development; promulgation.--The Security Executive 
            Agent shall--

                    (I) not later than 45 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, and in conjunction with the 
                Suitability Executive Agent and the Attorney General, 
                begin developing regulations to implement the 
                amendments made by subparagraph (A); and
                    (II) not later than 120 days after the date of 
                enactment of this Act, promulgate regulations to 
                implement the amendments made by subparagraph (A).

            (C) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
        the Federal Government should not uniformly reject applicants 
        for employment with the Federal Government or Federal 
        contractors based on--
                (i) sealed or expunged criminal records; or
                (ii) juvenile records.
        (7) Interaction with law enforcement and intelligence agencies 
    abroad.--Section 9101 of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
    adding at the end the following:
    ``(g) Upon request by a covered agency and in accordance with the 
applicable provisions of this section, the Deputy Assistant Secretary 
of State for Overseas Citizens Services shall make available criminal 
history record information collected by the Deputy Assistant Secretary 
with respect to an individual who is under investigation by the covered 
agency regarding any interaction of the individual with a law 
enforcement agency or intelligence agency of a foreign country.''.
        (8) Clarification of security requirements for contractors 
    conducting background investigations.--Section 9101 of title 5, 
    United States Code, as amended by this subsection, is amended by 
    adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) If a contractor described in subsection (a)(6)(J) uses an 
automated information delivery system to request criminal history 
record information, the contractor shall comply with any necessary 
security requirements for access to that system.''.
        (9) Clarification regarding adverse actions.--Section 7512 of 
    title 5, United States Code, is amended--
            (A) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``or'';
            (B) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period and 
        inserting ``, or''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(F) a suitability action taken by the Office under 
    regulations prescribed by the Office, subject to the rules 
    prescribed by the President under this title for the administration 
    of the competitive service.''.
        (10) Annual report by suitability and security clearance 
    performance accountability council.--Section 9101 of title 5, 
    United States Code, as amended by this subsection, is amended by 
    adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) The Suitability and Security Clearance Performance 
Accountability Council established under Executive Order 13467 (73 Fed. 
Reg. 38103), or any successor thereto, shall submit to the Committee on 
Armed Services, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the Select Committee on 
Intelligence of the Senate, and the Committee on Armed Services, the 
Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, the Committee on 
Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives, an annual report that--
        ``(1) describes efforts of the Council to integrate Federal, 
    State, and local systems for sharing criminal history record 
    information;
        ``(2) analyzes the extent and effectiveness of Federal 
    education programs regarding criminal history record information;
        ``(3) provides an update on the implementation of best 
    practices for sharing criminal history record information, 
    including ongoing limitations experienced by investigators working 
    for or on behalf of a covered agency with respect to access to 
    State and local criminal history record information; and
        ``(4) provides a description of limitations on the sharing of 
    information relevant to a background investigation, other than 
    criminal history record information, between--
            ``(A) investigators working for or on behalf of a covered 
        agency; and
            ``(B) State and local law enforcement agencies.''.
        (11) GAO report on enhancing interoperability and reducing 
    redundancy in federal critical infrastructure protection access 
    control, background check, and credentialing standards.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than\ one year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall submit to the congressional defense 
        committees, the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives, and the Committee on Homeland Security and 
        Governmental Affairs of the Senate a report on the background 
        check, access control, and credentialing requirements of 
        Federal programs for the protection of critical infrastructure 
        and key resources.
            (B) Contents.--The Comptroller General shall include in the 
        report required under subparagraph (A)--
                (i) a summary of the major characteristics of each such 
            Federal program, including the types of infrastructure and 
            resources covered;
                (ii) a comparison of the requirements, whether 
            mandatory or voluntary in nature, for regulated entities 
            under each such program to--

                    (I) conduct background checks on employees, 
                contractors, and other individuals;
                    (II) adjudicate the results of a background check, 
                including the utilization of a standardized set of 
                disqualifying offenses or the consideration of minor, 
                non-violent, or juvenile offenses; and
                    (III) establish access control systems to deter 
                unauthorized access, or provide a security credential 
                for any level of access to a covered facility or 
                resource;

                (iii) a review of any efforts that the Screening 
            Coordination Office of the Department of Homeland Security 
            has undertaken or plans to undertake to harmonize or 
            standardize background check, access control, or 
            credentialing requirements for critical infrastructure and 
            key resource protection programs overseen by the 
            Department; and
                (iv) recommendations, developed in consultation with 
            appropriate stakeholders, regarding--

                    (I) enhancing the interoperability of security 
                credentials across critical infrastructure and key 
                resource protection programs;
                    (II) eliminating the need for redundant background 
                checks or credentials across existing critical 
                infrastructure and key resource protection programs;
                    (III) harmonizing, where appropriate, the standards 
                for identifying potentially disqualifying criminal 
                offenses and the weight assigned to minor, nonviolent, 
                or juvenile offenses in adjudicating the results of a 
                completed background check; and
                    (IV) the development of common, risk-based 
                standards with respect to the background check, access 
                control, and security credentialing requirements for 
                critical infrastructure and key resource protection 
                programs.

    (g) Definitions.--In this section--
        (1) the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Select Committee on Intelligence and the Committee 
        on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate; 
        and
            (C) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, the 
        Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and the Committee 
        on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and
        (2) the term ``Performance Accountability Council'' means the 
    Suitability and Security Clearance Performance Accountability 
    Council established under Executive Order 13467 (73 Fed. Reg. 
    38103), or any successor thereto.
SEC. 1087. TRANSFER OF SURPLUS FIREARMS TO CORPORATION FOR THE 
PROMOTION OF RIFLE PRACTICE AND FIREARMS SAFETY.
    (a) Authorization of Transfer of Surplus Firearms to Corporation 
for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms Safety.--
        (1) In general.--Section 40728 of title 36, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(h) Authorized Transfers.--(1) Subject to paragraph (2), the 
Secretary may transfer to the corporation, in accordance with the 
procedure prescribed in this subchapter, surplus caliber .45 M1911/
M1911A1 pistols and spare parts and related accessories for those 
pistols that, on the date of the enactment of this subsection, are 
under the control of the Secretary and are surplus to the requirements 
of the Department of the Army, and such material as may be recovered by 
the Secretary pursuant to section 40728A(a) of this title. The 
Secretary shall determine a reasonable schedule for the transfer of 
such surplus pistols.
    ``(2) The Secretary may not transfer more than 10,000 surplus 
caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols to the corporation during any year 
and may only transfer such pistols as long as pistols described in 
paragraph (1) remain available for transfer.''.
        (2) Technical and conforming amendments.--Such title is further 
    amended--
            (A) in section 40728A--
                (i) by striking ``rifles'' each place it appears and 
            inserting ``surplus firearms''; and
                (ii) in subsection (a), by striking ``section 
            40731(a)'' and inserting ``section 40732(a)'';
            (B) in section 40729(a)--
                (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``section 40728(a)'' 
            and inserting ``subsections (a) and (h) of section 40728'';
                (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking ``40728(a)'' and 
            inserting ``subsections (a) and (h) of section 40728''; and
                (iii) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``and caliber .45 
            M1911/M1911A1 surplus pistols'' after ``caliber .30 and 
            caliber .22 rimfire rifles'';
            (C) in section 40732--
                (i) by striking ``caliber .22 rimfire and caliber .30 
            surplus rifles'' both places it appears and inserting 
            ``surplus caliber .22 rimfire rifles, caliber .30 surplus 
            rifles, and caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 surplus pistols''; 
            and
                (ii) in subsection (b), by striking ``is over 18 years 
            of age'' and inserting ``is legally of age''; and
            (D) in section 40733--
                (i) by striking ``Section 922(a)(1)-(3) and (5)'' and 
            inserting ``(a) In General.--Except as provided in 
            subsection (b), section 922(a)(1)-(3) and (5)''; and
                (ii) by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(b) Exception.--With respect to firearms other than caliber .22 
rimfire and caliber .30 rifles, the corporation shall obtain a license 
as a dealer in firearms and abide by all requirements imposed on 
persons licensed under chapter 44 of title 18, including maintaining 
acquisition and disposition records, and conducting background 
checks.''.
    (b) Pilot Program.--
        (1) One-year authority.--The Secretary of the Army may carry 
    out a one-year pilot program under which the Secretary may transfer 
    to the Corporation for the Promotion of Rifle Practice and Firearms 
    Safety not more than 10,000 firearms described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Firearms described.--The firearms described in this 
    paragraph are surplus caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 pistols and spare 
    parts and related accessories for those pistols that, on the date 
    of the enactment of this section, are under the control of the 
    Secretary and are surplus to the requirements of the Department of 
    the Army.
        (3) Transfer requirements.--Transfers of surplus caliber .45 
    M1911/M1911A1 pistols from the Army to the Corporation under the 
    pilot program shall be made in accordance with subchapter II of 
    chapter 407 of title 36, United States Code.
        (4) Reports to congress.--
            (A) Interim report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
        Secretary initiates the pilot program under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall submit to Congress an interim report on the 
        pilot program.
            (B) Final report.--Not later than 15 days after the 
        Secretary completes the pilot program under this subsection, 
        the Secretary shall submit to Congress a final report on the 
        pilot program.
            (C) Contents of report.--Each report required by this 
        subsection shall include, for the period covered by the 
        report--
                (i) the number of firearms described in subsection 
            (a)(2) transferred under the pilot program; and
                (ii) information on any crimes committed using firearms 
            transferred under the pilot program.
    (c) Limitation on Transfer of Surplus Caliber .45 M1911/M1911A1 
Pistols.--The Secretary may not transfer firearms described in 
subsection (b)(2) under subchapter II of chapter 407 of title 36, 
United States Code, until the date that is 60 days after the date of 
the submittal of the final report required under subsection (b)(4)(B).
SEC. 1088. MODIFICATION OF REQUIREMENTS FOR TRANSFERRING AIRCRAFT 
WITHIN THE AIR FORCE INVENTORY.
    (a) Modification of Requirements.--Section 345 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 
U.S.C. 8062 note) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a)--
            (A) by striking the first sentence and inserting the 
        following: ``Before making an aircraft transfer described in 
        subsection (c), the Secretary of the Air Force shall ensure 
        that a written agreement regarding such transfer has been 
        entered into between the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and 
        the Director of the Air National Guard or the Chief of Air 
        Force Reserve.''; and
            (B) in paragraph (3), by striking ``depot'';
        (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(b) Submittal of Agreements to the Department of Defense and 
Congress.--The Secretary of the Air Force may not take any action to 
transfer an aircraft until the Secretary--
        ``(1) ensures that the Air Force has complied with Department 
    of Defense regulations applicable to the transfer; and
        ``(2) for a transfer described in subsection (c)(1), submits to 
    the congressional defense committees an agreement entered into 
    pursuant to subsection (a) regarding the transfer of the 
    aircraft.''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subsections:
    ``(c) Covered Aircraft Transfers.--
        ``(1) Covered transfers.--An aircraft transfer described in 
    this subsection is the transfer (other than as specified in 
    paragraph (2)) from a reserve component of the Air Force to the 
    regular component of the Air Force of--
            ``(A) the permanent assignment of an aircraft that 
        terminates a reserve component's equitable interest in the 
        aircraft; or
            ``(B) possession of an aircraft for a period in excess of 
        90 days.
        ``(2) Exceptions.--Paragraph (1) does not apply to the 
    following:
            ``(A) A routine temporary transfer of possession of an 
        aircraft from a reserve component that is made solely for the 
        benefit of the reserve component for the purpose of 
        maintenance, upgrade, conversion, modification, or testing and 
        evaluation.
            ``(B) A routine permanent transfer of assignment of an 
        aircraft that terminates a reserve component's equitable 
        interest in the aircraft if notice of the transfer has 
        previously been provided to the congressional defense 
        committees and the transfer has been approved by the Secretary 
        of Defense pursuant to Department of Defense regulations.
            ``(C) A transfer described in paragraph (1)(A) when there 
        is a reciprocal permanent assignment of an aircraft from the 
        regular component of the Air Force to the reserve component 
        that does not degrade the capability of, or reduce the total 
        number of, aircraft assigned to the reserve component.
    ``(d) Return of Aircraft After Routine Temporary Transfer.--In the 
case of an aircraft transferred from a reserve component of the Air 
Force to the regular component of the Air Force for which an agreement 
under subsection (a) is not required by reason of subsection (c)(2)(A), 
possession of the aircraft shall be transferred back to the reserve 
component upon completion of the work described in subsection 
(c)(2)(A).''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 345(a)(7) of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 
U.S.C. 8062 note) is amended by striking ``Commander of the Air Force 
Reserve Command'' and inserting ``Chief of Air Force Reserve''.
    (c) Technical Amendments to Delete References to Aircraft 
Ownership.--Section 345(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (Public Law 111-383; 10 U.S.C. 8062 note) is 
amended in paragraphs (2)(A), (2)(C), and (3) by striking ``the 
ownership of''.
SEC. 1089. REESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION TO ASSESS THE THREAT TO THE 
UNITED STATES FROM ELECTROMAGNETIC PULSE ATTACK.
    (a) Reestablishment.--The commission established pursuant to title 
XIV of the Floyd D. Spence National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 
1654A-345), and reestablished pursuant to section 1052 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 (Public Law 109-163; 50 
U.S.C. 2301 note), known as the Commission to Assess the Threat to the 
United States from Electromagnetic Pulse Attack, is hereby 
reestablished.
    (b) Membership.--Service on the Commission is voluntary, and 
Commissioners may elect to terminate their service on the Commission. 
If a Commissioner is unwilling or unable to serve on the Commission, 
the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the chairmen and ranking 
members of the Committees on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Senate, shall appoint a new member to fill that 
vacancy.
    (c) Commission Charter Defined.--In this section, the term 
``Commission charter'' means title XIV of the Floyd D. Spence National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2001 (as enacted into law by 
Public Law 106-398; 114 Stat. 1654A-345 et seq.), as amended by section 
1052 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2006 
(Public Law 109-163; 50 U.S.C. 2301 note) and section 1073 of the John 
Warner National Defense Act for Fiscal Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 
120 Stat. 2403).
    (d) Expanded Purpose.--Section 1401(b) of the Commission charter 
(114 Stat. 1654A-345) is amended by inserting before the period at the 
end the following: ``, from non-nuclear EMP weapons, from natural EMP 
generated by geomagnetic storms, and from proposed uses in the military 
doctrines of potential adversaries of using EMP weapons in combination 
with other attack vectors.''.
    (e) Duties of Commission.--Section 1402 of the Commission charter 
(114 Stat. 1654A-346) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 1402. DUTIES OF COMMISSION.
    ``The Commission shall assess the following:
        ``(1) The vulnerability of electric-dependent military systems 
    in the United States to a manmade or natural EMP event, giving 
    special attention to the progress made by the Department of 
    Defense, other Government departments and agencies of the United 
    States, and entities of the private sector in taking steps to 
    protect such systems from such an event.
        ``(2) The evolving current and future threat from state and 
    non-state actors of a manmade EMP attack employing nuclear or non-
    nuclear weapons.
        ``(3) New technologies, operational procedures, and contingency 
    planning that can protect electronics and military systems from the 
    effects a manmade or natural EMP event.
        ``(4) Among the States, if State grids are protected against 
    manmade or natural EMP, which States should receive highest 
    priority for protecting critical defense assets.
        ``(5) The degree to which vulnerabilities of critical 
    infrastructure systems create cascading vulnerabilities for 
    military systems.''.
    (f) Report.--Section 1403 of the Commission charter (114 Stat. 
1654A-345) is amended by striking ``September 30, 2007'' and inserting 
``June 30, 2017''.
    (g) Termination.--Section 1049 of the Commission charter (114 Stat. 
1654A-348) is amended by inserting before the period at the end the 
following: ``, as amended by the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2016''.
SEC. 1090. MINE COUNTERMEASURES MASTER PLAN AND REPORT.
    (a) Master Plan Required.--
        (1) Plan required.--At the same time the budget is submitted to 
    Congress for each of fiscal years 2018 through 2023, the Secretary 
    of the Navy shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    mine countermeasures (in this section referred to as ``MCM'') 
    master plan.
        (2) Elements.--Each MCM master plan submitted under paragraph 
    (1) shall include each of the following:
            (A) An evaluation of the capabilities, capacities, 
        requirements, and readiness levels of the defensive 
        capabilities of the Navy for MCM, including an assessment of--
                (i) the dedicated MCM force; and
                (ii) the capabilities of ships, aircraft, and 
            submarines that are not yet dedicated to MCM but could be 
            modified to carry MCM capabilities.
            (B) An evaluation of the ability of commanders--
                (i) to properly command and control air and surface MCM 
            forces from the fleet to the unit level; and
                (ii) to provide necessary operational and tactical 
            control and awareness of such forces to facilitate mission 
            accomplishment and defense.
            (C) An assessment of--
                (i) technologies having promising potential to improve 
            MCM; and
                (ii) programs for transitioning such technologies from 
            the testing and evaluation phases to procurement.
            (D) A fiscal plan to support the master plan through the 
        Future Years Defense Plan.
            (E) A plan for inspection of each asset with MCM 
        responsibilities, requirements, and capabilities, which shall 
        include proposed methods to ensure the material readiness of 
        each asset and the training level of the force, a general 
        summary, and readiness trends.
        (3) Form of submission.--Each MCM master plan submitted under 
    paragraph (1) shall be in unclassified form, but may include a 
    classified annex addressing the capability and capacity to meet 
    operational plans and contingency requirements.
    (b) Report to Congress.--
        (1) Report required.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report that contains the 
    recommendations of the Secretary--
            (A) regarding MCM force structure; and
            (B) ensuring the operational effectiveness of the surface 
        MCM force through 2025 based on current capabilities and 
        capacity, replacement schedules, and service life extensions or 
        retirement schedules.
        (2) Elements.--The report submitted under paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) An assessment of the MCM vessels, including the 
        decommissioned MCM-1 and MCM-2 ships and the potential of such 
        ships for reserve operating status.
            (B) An assessment of the Littoral Combat Ship MCM mission 
        package increment one performance against the initial 
        operational test and evaluation criteria.
            (C) An assessment of other commercially available MCM 
        systems that could supplement or supplant Littoral Combat Ship 
        MCM mission package systems.
SEC. 1091. CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION AND BRIEFING REQUIREMENT ON 
ORDERED EVACUATIONS OF UNITED STATES EMBASSIES AND CONSULATES INVOLVING 
SUPPORT PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Notification Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of State shall provide notification to the appropriate 
congressional committees as soon as practicable upon the initiation of 
an ordered evacuation of a United States embassy or consulate involving 
support provided by the Department of Defense.
    (b) Briefing Requirement.--The Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of State shall provide a briefing to the appropriate 
congressional committees not later than 15 days after the initiation of 
an ordered evacuation of a United States embassy or consulate involving 
support provided by the Department of Defense.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1092. INTERAGENCY HOSTAGE RECOVERY COORDINATOR.
    (a) Interagency Hostage Recovery Coordinator.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the President shall designate an existing 
    Federal official to coordinate efforts to secure the release of 
    United States persons who are hostages held abroad. For purposes of 
    carrying out the duties described in paragraph (2), such official 
    shall have the title of ``Interagency Hostage Recovery 
    Coordinator''.
        (2) Duties.--The Coordinator shall have the following duties:
            (A) Coordinate activities of the Federal Government 
        relating to each hostage situation described in paragraph (1) 
        to ensure efforts to secure the release of hostages are 
        properly resourced and correct lines of authority are 
        established and maintained.
            (B) Chair a fusion cell consisting of appropriate personnel 
        of the Federal Government with purview over each hostage 
        situation described in paragraph (1).
            (C) Ensure sufficient representation of each Federal agency 
        and department at each fusion cell established under 
        subparagraph (B) and issue procedures for adjudication and 
        appeal.
            (D) Develop processes and procedures to keep family members 
        of hostages described in paragraph (1) informed of the status 
        of such hostages, inform such family members of updates that do 
        not compromise the national security of the United States, and 
        coordinate with the Federal Government's family engagement 
        coordinator or other designated senior representative.
    (b) Quarterly Report and Briefing.--
        (1) Report.--
            (A) In general.--On a quarterly basis, the Coordinator 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report that includes a summary of each hostage situation 
        described in subsection (a)(1).
            (B) Form of report.-- Each report under this subparagraph 
        (A) may be submitted in classified or unclassified form.
        (2) Briefing.--On a quarterly basis, the Coordinator shall 
    provide to the Senators representing the State, and the Member, 
    Delegate, or Resident Commissioner of the House of Representatives 
    representing the district, where a hostage described in subsection 
    (a)(1) resides a briefing with respect to the status of such 
    hostage.
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    section, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on the 
        Judiciary, the Select Committee on Intelligence, and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate.
SEC. 1093. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE INADVERTENT TRANSFER OF ANTHRAX 
FROM THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the inadvertent transfer of live Bacillus anthracis, also 
    known as anthrax, from an Army laboratory to numerous laboratories 
    located in many States and several countries that was discovered in 
    May 2015 represents a serious safety lapse;
        (2) the Department of Defense, in cooperation with the Centers 
    for Disease Control and Prevention, should continue to investigate 
    the cause of this lapse and determine what protective protocols 
    should be strengthened;
        (3) the Department of Defense should reassess all Select Agent 
    standards on a regular basis to ensure they are current and 
    effective to prevent a reoccurrence; and
        (4) the Department of Defense should keep Congress apprised of 
    the investigation, any potential public health or safety risk, 
    corrective actions taken, and plans to regularly reassess 
    standards.
SEC. 1094. MODIFICATION OF CERTAIN REQUIREMENTS APPLICABLE TO MAJOR 
MEDICAL FACILITY LEASE FOR A DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT 
CLINIC IN TULSA, OKLAHOMA.
    Section 601(b) of the Veterans Access, Choice, and Accountability 
Act of 2014 (Public Law 113-146; 128 Stat. 1793) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``in Tulsa.--'' and all that follows through 
    ``In carrying out'' and inserting ``in Tulsa.--In carrying out'';
        (2) by striking paragraph (2);
        (3) by redesignating subparagraphs (A) through (E) as 
    paragraphs (1) through (5), respectively, and adjusting the 
    indentation of the margin of such paragraphs, as so redesignated, 
    two ems to the left;
        (4) in paragraph (1), as so redesignated, by striking ``140,000 
    gross square feet'' and inserting ``140,000 net usable square 
    feet'';
        (5) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated, by striking ``not 
    more than the average'' and all that follows and inserting ``not 
    more than the average of equivalent medical facility leases 
    executed by the Department of Veterans Affairs over the last five 
    years, plus 20 percent;''; and
        (6) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by striking ``30-year 
    life cycle'' and inserting ``20-year life cycle''.
SEC. 1095. AUTHORIZATION OF FISCAL YEAR 2015 MAJOR MEDICAL FACILITY 
PROJECTS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may carry out 
the following major medical facility projects in fiscal year 2015, with 
each project to be carried out in an amount not to exceed the amount 
specified for that project:
        (1) Construction of a community living center, outpatient 
    clinic, renovated domiciliary, and renovation of existing buildings 
    in Canandaigua, New York, in an amount not to exceed $158,980,000.
        (2) Seismic corrections to the mental health and community 
    living center in Long Beach, California, in an amount not to exceed 
    $126,100,000.
        (3) Seismic correction of 12 buildings in West Los Angeles, 
    California, in an amount not to exceed $70,500,000.
        (4) Construction of a spinal cord injury building and seismic 
    corrections in San Diego, California, in an amount not to exceed 
    $205,840,000.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for fiscal year 2015 
or the year in which funds are appropriated for the Construction, Major 
Projects, account, a total of $561,420,000 for the projects authorized 
in subsection (a).
SEC. 1096. DESIGNATION OF CONSTRUCTION AGENT FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION 
PROJECTS BY DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall seek to 
enter into an agreement subject to subsections (b), (c), and (e) of 
section 1535 of title 31, United States Code, with the Army Corps of 
Engineers or another entity of the Federal Government to serve, on a 
reimbursable basis, as the construction agent for the construction, 
alteration, or acquisition of any medical facility of the Department of 
Veterans Affairs specifically authorized by Congress after the date of 
the enactment of this Act that involves a total expenditure of more 
than $100,000,000, excluding any acquisition by exchange.
    (b) Agreement.--Under the agreement entered into under subsection 
(a), the construction agent shall provide design, procurement, and 
construction management services for the construction, alteration, and 
acquisition of medical facilities of the Department.
SEC. 1097. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STRATEGY FOR COUNTERING UNCONVENTIONAL 
WARFARE.
    (a) Strategy Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in 
consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the 
heads of other appropriate departments and agencies of the United 
States Government, develop a strategy for the Department of Defense to 
counter unconventional warfare threats posed by adversarial state and 
non-state actors.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required under subsection (a) shall 
include each of the following:
        (1) An articulation of the activities that constitute 
    unconventional warfare threats to the United States and allies.
        (2) A clarification of the roles and responsibilities of the 
    Department of Defense in providing indications and warning of, and 
    protection against, acts of unconventional warfare.
        (3) An analysis of the adequacy of current authorities and 
    command structures necessary for countering unconventional warfare.
        (4) An articulation of the goals and objectives of the 
    Department of Defense with respect to countering unconventional 
    warfare threats.
        (5) An articulation of related or required interagency 
    capabilities and whole-of-Government activities required by the 
    Department of Defense to support a counter-unconventional warfare 
    strategy.
        (6) Recommendations for improving the counter-unconventional 
    warfare capabilities, authorities, and command structures of the 
    Department of Defense.
        (7) Recommendations for improving interagency coordination and 
    support mechanisms with respect to countering unconventional 
    warfare threats.
        (8) Recommendations for the establishment of joint doctrine to 
    support counter-unconventional warfare capabilities within the 
    Department of Defense.
        (9) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense considers 
    appropriate.
    (c) Submittal to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees the strategy required by 
subsection (a). The strategy shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Unconventional Warfare Defined.--In this section, the term 
``unconventional warfare'' means activities conducted to enable a 
resistance movement or insurgency to coerce, disrupt, or overthrow a 
government or occupying power by operating through or with an 
underground, auxiliary, or guerrilla force in a denied area.

                  TITLE XI--CIVILIAN PERSONNEL MATTERS

Sec. 1101. Procedures for reduction in force of Department of Defense 
          civilian personnel.
Sec. 1102. One-year extension of temporary authority to grant 
          allowances, benefits, and gratuities to civilian personnel on 
          official duty in a combat zone.
Sec. 1103. Extension of rate of overtime pay for Department of the Navy 
          employees performing work aboard or dockside in support of the 
          nuclear-powered aircraft carrier forward deployed in Japan.
Sec. 1104. Modification to temporary authorities for certain positions 
          at Department of Defense research and engineering facilities.
Sec. 1105. Required probationary period for new employees of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1106. Delay of periodic step increase for civilian employees of the 
          Department of Defense based upon unacceptable performance.
Sec. 1107. United States Cyber Command workforce.
Sec. 1108. One-year extension of authority to waive annual limitation on 
          premium pay and aggregate limitation on pay for Federal 
          civilian employees working overseas.
Sec. 1109. Pilot program on dynamic shaping of the workforce to improve 
          the technical skills and expertise at certain Department of 
          Defense laboratories.
Sec. 1110. Pilot program on temporary exchange of financial management 
          and acquisition personnel.
Sec. 1111. Pilot program on enhanced pay authority for certain 
          acquisition and technology positions in the Department of 
          Defense.
Sec. 1112. Pilot program on direct hire authority for veteran technical 
          experts into the defense acquisition workforce.
Sec. 1113. Direct hire authority for technical experts into the defense 
          acquisition workforce.
SEC. 1101. PROCEDURES FOR REDUCTION IN FORCE OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
CIVILIAN PERSONNEL.
    (a) Procedures.--Section 1597 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(f) Reductions Based Primarily on Performance.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall establish procedures to provide that, in implementing any 
reduction in force for civilian positions in the Department of Defense 
in the competitive service or the excepted service, the determination 
of which employees shall be separated from employment in the Department 
shall be made primarily on the basis of performance, as determined 
under any applicable performance management system.''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of Defense should proceed with the collaborative work with 
employee representatives on the ``New Beginnings'' performance 
management and workforce incentive system authorized under section 1113 
of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public 
Law 111-84; 5 U.S.C. 9902 note) and begin implementation of the new 
system at the earliest possible date.
SEC. 1102. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY AUTHORITY TO GRANT 
ALLOWANCES, BENEFITS, AND GRATUITIES TO CIVILIAN PERSONNEL ON OFFICIAL 
DUTY IN A COMBAT ZONE.
     Paragraph (2) of section 1603(a) of the Emergency Supplemental 
Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane 
Recovery, 2006 (Public Law 109-234; 120 Stat. 443), as added by section 
1102 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4616) and as most recently 
amended by section 1102 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3525), is further 
amended by striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2017''.
SEC. 1103. EXTENSION OF RATE OF OVERTIME PAY FOR DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY 
EMPLOYEES PERFORMING WORK ABOARD OR DOCKSIDE IN SUPPORT OF THE NUCLEAR-
POWERED AIRCRAFT CARRIER FORWARD DEPLOYED IN JAPAN.
    Section 5542(a)(6)(B) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by 
striking ``September 30, 2015'' and inserting ``September 30, 2017''.
SEC. 1104. MODIFICATION TO TEMPORARY AUTHORITIES FOR CERTAIN POSITIONS 
AT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE RESEARCH AND ENGINEERING FACILITIES.
    Section 1107 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 888) is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:
        ``(4) Noncompetitive conversion to permanent appointment.--With 
    respect to any student appointed by the director of an STRL under 
    paragraph (3) to a temporary or term appointment, upon graduation 
    from the applicable institution of higher education (as defined in 
    such paragraph), the director may noncompetitively convert such 
    student to a permanent appointment within the STRL without regard 
    to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 5, United 
    States Code (other than sections 3303 and 3328 of such title), 
    provided the student meets all eligibility and Office of Personnel 
    Management qualification requirements for the position.'';
        (2) in subsection (c)(1), by striking ``3 percent'' and 
    inserting ``6 percent'';
        (3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking ``1 percent'' and 
    inserting ``3 percent''; and
        (4) in subsection (f)(2), by striking ``1 percent'' and 
    inserting ``2 percent''.
SEC. 1105. REQUIRED PROBATIONARY PERIOD FOR NEW EMPLOYEES OF THE 
DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Required Probationary Period.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 1599e. Probationary period for employees
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding sections 3321 and 3393(d) of 
title 5, the appointment of a covered employee shall become final only 
after such employee has served a probationary period of two years. The 
Secretary concerned may extend a probationary period under this 
subsection at the discretion of such Secretary.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `covered employee' means any individual--
            ``(A) appointed to a permanent position within the 
        competitive service at the Department of Defense; or
            ``(B) appointed as a career appointee (as that term is 
        defined in section 3132(a)(4) of title 5) within the Senior 
        Executive Service at the Department.
        ``(2) The term `Secretary concerned' includes the Secretary of 
    Defense with respect to employees of the Department of Defense who 
    are not employees of a military department.
    ``(c) Employment Becomes Final.--Upon the expiration of a covered 
employee's probationary period under subsection (a), the supervisor of 
the employee shall determine whether the appointment becomes final 
based on regulations prescribed for such purpose by the Secretary of 
Defense.
    ``(d) Application of Chapter 75 of Title 5 for Employees in the 
Competitive Service.--With respect to any individual described in 
subsection (b)(1)(A) and to whom this section applies, section 7501(1) 
and section 7511(a)(1)(A)(ii) of title 5 shall be applied to such 
individual by substituting `completed 2 years' for `completed 1 year' 
in each instance it appears.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of chapter 81 of such title is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new item:

``1599e. Probationary period for employees.''.

    (b) Application.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall apply 
to any covered employee (as that term is defined in section 1599e of 
title 10, United States Code, as added by such subsection) appointed 
after the date of the enactment of this section.
    (c) Conforming Amendments.--Title 5, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in section 3321(c), by inserting at the end before the 
    period the following: ``, or any individual covered by section 
    1599e of title 10'';
        (2) in section 3393(d), by adding at the end the following: 
    ``The preceding sentence shall not apply to any individual covered 
    by section 1599e of title 10.'';
        (3) in section 7501(1), by striking ``or who'' and inserting 
    ``or, except as provided in section 1599e of title 10, who'';
        (4) in section 7511(a)(1)(A)(ii), by inserting ``except as 
    provided in section 1599e of title 10,'' before ``who''; and
        (5) in section 7541(1)(A), by inserting ``or section 1599e of 
    title 10'' after ``this title''.
SEC. 1106. DELAY OF PERIODIC STEP INCREASE FOR CIVILIAN EMPLOYEES OF 
THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASED UPON UNACCEPTABLE PERFORMANCE.
    (a) Delay.--Under procedures established by the Secretary of 
Defense, upon a determination by the Secretary that the work of an 
employee is not at an acceptable level of competence, the period of 
time during which the work of the employee is not at an acceptable 
level of competence shall not count toward completion of the period of 
service required for purposes of subsection (a) of section 5335 of 
title 5, United States Code, or subsection (e)(1) or (e)(2) of section 
5343 of such title.
    (b) Applicability to Periods of Service.--Subsection (a) shall not 
apply with respect to any period of service performed before the date 
of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1107. UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND WORKFORCE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 1105, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 1599f. United States Cyber Command recruitment and retention
    ``(a) General Authority.--(1) The Secretary of Defense may--
        ``(A) establish, as positions in the excepted service, such 
    qualified positions in the Department of Defense as the Secretary 
    determines necessary to carry out the responsibilities of the 
    United States Cyber Command, including--
            ``(i) positions held by staff of the headquarters of the 
        United States Cyber Command;
            ``(ii) positions held by elements of the United States 
        Cyber Command enterprise relating to cyberspace operations, 
        including elements assigned to the Joint Task Force-Department 
        of Defense Information Networks; and
            ``(iii) positions held by elements of the military 
        departments supporting the United States Cyber Command;
        ``(B) appoint an individual to a qualified position (after 
    taking into consideration the availability of preference eligibles 
    for appointment to the position); and
        ``(C) subject to the requirements of subsections (b) and (c), 
    fix the compensation of an individual for service in a qualified 
    position.
    ``(2) The authority of the Secretary under this subsection applies 
without regard to the provisions of any other law relating to the 
appointment, number, classification, or compensation of employees.
    ``(b) Basic Pay.--(1) In accordance with this section, the 
Secretary shall fix the rates of basic pay for any qualified position 
established under subsection (a)--
        ``(A) in relation to the rates of pay provided for employees in 
    comparable positions in the Department, in which the employee 
    occupying the comparable position performs, manages, or supervises 
    functions that execute the cyber mission of the Department; and
        ``(B) subject to the same limitations on maximum rates of pay 
    established for such employees by law or regulation.
    ``(2) The Secretary may--
        ``(A) consistent with section 5341 of title 5, adopt such 
    provisions of that title to provide for prevailing rate systems of 
    basic pay; and
        ``(B) apply those provisions to qualified positions for 
    employees in or under which the Department may employ individuals 
    described by section 5342(a)(2)(A) of such title.
    ``(c) Additional Compensation, Incentives, and Allowances.--(1) The 
Secretary may provide employees in qualified positions compensation (in 
addition to basic pay), including benefits, incentives, and allowances, 
consistent with, and not in excess of the level authorized for, 
comparable positions authorized by title 5.
    ``(2) An employee in a qualified position whose rate of basic pay 
is fixed under subsection (b)(1) shall be eligible for an allowance 
under section 5941 of title 5 on the same basis and to the same extent 
as if the employee was an employee covered by such section, including 
eligibility conditions, allowance rates, and all other terms and 
conditions in law or regulation.
    ``(d) Implementation Plan Required.--The authority granted in 
subsection (a) shall become effective 30 days after the date on which 
the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional defense 
committees a plan for implementation of such authority. The plan shall 
include the following:
        ``(1) An assessment of the current scope of the positions 
    covered by the authority.
        ``(2) A plan for the use of the authority.
        ``(3) An assessment of the anticipated workforce needs of the 
    United States Cyber Command across the future-years defense plan.
        ``(4) Other matters as appropriate.
    ``(e) Collective Bargaining Agreements.--Nothing in subsection (a) 
may be construed to impair the continued effectiveness of a collective 
bargaining agreement with respect to an office, component, 
subcomponent, or equivalent of the Department that is a successor to an 
office, component, subcomponent, or equivalent of the Department 
covered by the agreement before the succession.
    ``(f) Required Regulations.--The Secretary, in coordination with 
the Director of the Office of Personnel Management, shall prescribe 
regulations for the administration of this section.
    ``(g) Annual Report.--(1) Not later than one year after the date of 
the enactment of this section and not less frequently than once each 
year thereafter until the date that is five years after the date of the 
enactment of this section, the Director of the Office of Personnel 
Management, in coordination with the Secretary, shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a detailed report on the 
administration of this section during the most recent one-year period.
    ``(2) Each report submitted under paragraph (1) shall include, for 
the period covered by the report, the following:
        ``(A) A discussion of the process used in accepting 
    applications, assessing candidates, ensuring adherence to veterans' 
    preference, and selecting applicants for vacancies to be filled by 
    an individual for a qualified position.
        ``(B) A description of the following:
            ``(i) How the Secretary plans to fulfill the critical need 
        of the Department to recruit and retain employees in qualified 
        positions.
            ``(ii) The measures that will be used to measure progress.
            ``(iii) Any actions taken during the reporting period to 
        fulfill such critical need.
        ``(C) A discussion of how the planning and actions taken under 
    subparagraph (B) are integrated into the strategic workforce 
    planning of the Department.
        ``(D) The metrics on actions occurring during the reporting 
    period, including the following:
            ``(i) The number of employees in qualified positions hired, 
        disaggregated by occupation, grade, and level or pay band.
            ``(ii) The placement of employees in qualified positions, 
        disaggregated by military department, Defense Agency, or other 
        component within the Department.
            ``(iii) The total number of veterans hired.
            ``(iv) The number of separations of employees in qualified 
        positions, disaggregated by occupation and grade and level or 
        pay band.
            ``(v) The number of retirements of employees in qualified 
        positions, disaggregated by occupation, grade, and level or pay 
        band.
            ``(vi) The number and amounts of recruitment, relocation, 
        and retention incentives paid to employees in qualified 
        positions, disaggregated by occupation, grade, and level or pay 
        band.
        ``(E) A description of the training provided to supervisors of 
    employees in qualified positions at the Department on the use of 
    the new authorities.
    ``(h) Three-year Probationary Period.--The probationary period for 
all employees hired under the authority established in this section 
shall be three years.
    ``(i) Incumbents of Existing Competitive Service Positions.--(1) An 
individual occupying a position on the date of the enactment of this 
section that is selected to be converted to a position in the excepted 
service under this section shall have the right to refuse such 
conversion.
    ``(2) After the date on which an individual who refuses a 
conversion under paragraph (1) stops serving in the position selected 
to be converted, the position may be converted to a position in the 
excepted service.
    ``(j) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
            ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, and the Committee 
        on Appropriations of the Senate; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Oversight and Government Reform, and the Committee on 
        Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
        ``(2) The term `collective bargaining agreement' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 7103(a)(8) of title 5.
        ``(3) The term `excepted service' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 2103 of title 5.
        ``(4) The term `preference eligible' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 2108(3) of title 5.
        ``(5) The term `qualified position' means a position, 
    designated by the Secretary for the purpose of this section, in 
    which the individual occupying such position performs, manages, or 
    supervises functions that execute the responsibilities of the 
    United States Cyber Command relating to cyber operations.
        ``(6) The term `Senior Executive Service' has the meaning given 
    that term in section 2101a of title 5.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 3132(a)(2) of title 5, United 
States Code, is amended in the matter following subparagraph (E)--
        (1) in clause (ii), by striking ``or'' at the end;
        (2) in clause (iii), by inserting ``or'' after the semicolon; 
    and
        (3) by inserting after clause (iii) the following new clause:
        ``(iv) any position established as a qualified position in the 
    excepted service by the Secretary of Defense under section 1599f of 
    title 10;''.
    (c) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 81 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 1105, 
is further amended by adding at the end the following new item:

``1599f. United States Cyber Command recruitment and retention.''.
SEC. 1108. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO WAIVE ANNUAL LIMITATION 
ON PREMIUM PAY AND AGGREGATE LIMITATION ON PAY FOR FEDERAL CIVILIAN 
EMPLOYEES WORKING OVERSEAS.
    Effective January 1, 2016, section 1101(a) of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4615), as most recently amended by section 1101 of 
the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), is further 
amended by striking ``through 2015'' and inserting ``through 2016''.
SEC. 1109. PILOT PROGRAM ON DYNAMIC SHAPING OF THE WORKFORCE TO IMPROVE 
THE TECHNICAL SKILLS AND EXPERTISE AT CERTAIN DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
LABORATORIES.
    (a) Pilot Program Required.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
establish a pilot program to utilize the authorities specified in 
subsection (b) at the Department of Defense laboratories specified in 
subsection (c) to provide the directors of such laboratories the 
authority to dynamically shape the mix of technical skills and 
expertise in the workforces of such laboratories in order to achieve 
one or more of the following:
        (1) To meet organizational and Department-designated missions 
    in the most cost-effective and efficient manner.
        (2) To upgrade and enhance the scientific quality of the 
    workforces of such laboratories.
        (3) To shape such workforces to better respond to such 
    missions.
        (4) To reduce the average unit cost of such workforces.
    (b) Workforce Shaping Authorities.--The authorities that shall be 
available for use by the director of a Department of Defense laboratory 
under the pilot program are the following:
        (1) Flexible length and renewable term technical 
    appointments.--
            (A) In general.--Subject to the provisions of this 
        paragraph, authority otherwise available to the director by law 
        (and within the available budgetary resources of the 
        laboratory) to appoint qualified scientific and technical 
        personnel who are not currently Department of Defense civilian 
        employees into any scientific or technical position in the 
        laboratory for a period of more than one year but not more than 
        six years.
            (B) Benefits.--Personnel appointed under this paragraph 
        shall be provided with benefits comparable to those provided to 
        similar employees at the laboratory concerned, including 
        professional development opportunities, eligibility for all 
        laboratory awards programs, and designation as ``status 
        applicants'' for the purposes of eligibility for positions in 
        the Federal service.
            (C) Extension of appointments.--The appointment of any 
        individual under this paragraph may be extended without limit 
        in up to six year increments at any time during any term of 
        service under such conditions as the director concerned shall 
        establish for purposes of this paragraph.
            (D) Construction with certain limitation.--For purposes of 
        determining the workforce size of a laboratory in connection 
        with compliance with section 955 of the National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
        Stat. 1896; 10 U.S.C. 129a note), any individual serving in an 
        appointment under this paragraph shall be treated as a 
        fractional employee of the laboratory, which fraction is--
                (i) the current term of appointment of the individual 
            under this paragraph; divided by
                (ii) the average length of tenure of a career employee 
            at the laboratory, as calculated at the end of the last 
            fiscal year ending before the date of the most recent 
            appointment or extension of the individual under this 
            paragraph.
        (2) Reemployment of annuitants.--Authorities to authorize the 
    director of any science and technology reinvention laboratory (in 
    this section referred to as ``STRL'') to reemploy annuitants in 
    accordance with section 9902(g) of title 5, United States Code, 
    except that as a condition for reemployment the director may 
    authorize the deduction from the pay of any annuitant so reemployed 
    of an amount up to the amount of the annuity otherwise payable to 
    such annuitant allocable to the period of actual employment of such 
    annuitant, which amount shall be determined in a manner specified 
    by the director for purposes of this paragraph to ensure the most 
    cost effective execution of designated missions by the laboratory 
    while retaining critical technical skills.
        (3) Early retirement incentives.--Authorities to authorize the 
    director of any STRL to authorize voluntary early retirement of 
    employees in accordance with section 8336 of title 5, United States 
    Code, without regard to section 8336(d)(2)(D) or 3522 of such 
    title, and with employees so separated voluntarily from service.
        (4) Separation incentive pay.--Authorities to authorize the 
    director of any STRL to pay voluntary separation pay to employees 
    in accordance with section 8414(b)(1)(B) of title 5, United States 
    Code, without regard to clause (iv) or (v) of such section or 
    section 3522 of such title, and with--
            (A) employees so separated voluntarily from service under 
        regulations prescribed by the Secretary of Defense for purposes 
        of the pilot program; and
            (B) payments to employees so separated authorized under 
        section 3523 of such title without regard to--
                (i) the plan otherwise required by section 3522 of such 
            title; and
                (ii) paragraph (1) or (3) of section 3523(b) of such 
            title.
    (c) Laboratories.--The Department of Defense laboratories specified 
in this subsection are the laboratories specified in section 1105(a) of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 
111-84; 123 Stat. 2486; 10 U.S.C. 2358 note).
    (d) Expiration.--
        (1) In general.--The authority in this section shall expire on 
    December 31, 2023.
        (2) Continuation of authorities exercised before termination.--
    The expiration in paragraph (1) shall not be construed to effect 
    the continuation after the date specified in paragraph (1) of any 
    term of employment or other benefit authorized under this section 
    before that date in accordance with the terms of such 
    authorization.
SEC. 1110. PILOT PROGRAM ON TEMPORARY EXCHANGE OF FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT 
AND ACQUISITION PERSONNEL.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of the temporary 
assignment of covered employees of the Department of Defense to 
nontraditional defense contractors and of covered employees of such 
contractors to the Department.
    (b) Covered Employees; Nontraditional Defense Contractors.--
        (1) Covered employees.--An employee of the Department of 
    Defense or a nontraditional Defense contractor is a covered 
    employee for purposes of this section if the employee--
            (A) works in the field of financial management or in the 
        acquisition field;
            (B) is considered by the Secretary of Defense to be an 
        exceptional employee; and
            (C) is compensated at not less than the GS-11 level (or the 
        equivalent).
        (2) Nontraditional defense contractors.--For purposes of this 
    section, the term ``nontraditional defense contractor'' has the 
    meaning given that term in section 2302(9) of title 10, United 
    States Code.
    (c) Agreements.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall provide for a 
    written agreement among the Department of Defense, the 
    nontraditional defense contractor concerned, and the employee 
    concerned regarding the terms and conditions of the employee's 
    assignment under this section.
        (2) Elements.--An agreement under this subsection--
            (A) shall require, in the case of an employee of the 
        Department, that upon completion of the assignment, the 
        employee will serve in the civil service for a period at least 
        equal to three times the length of the assignment, unless the 
        employee is sooner involuntarily separated from the service of 
        the employee's agency; and
            (B) shall provide that if the employee of the Department or 
        of the contractor (as the case may be) fails to carry out the 
        agreement, or if the employee is voluntarily separated from the 
        service of the employee's agency before the end of the period 
        stated in the agreement, the employee shall be liable to the 
        United States for payment of all expenses of the assignment 
        unless that failure or voluntary separation was for good and 
        sufficient reason, as determined by the Secretary.
        (3) Debt to the united states.--An amount for which an employee 
    is liable under paragraph (2)(B) shall be treated as a debt due the 
    United States. The Secretary may waive, in whole or in part, 
    collection of such a debt based on a determination that the 
    collection would be against equity and good conscience and not in 
    the best interests of the United States.
    (d) Termination.--An assignment under this section may, at any time 
and for any reason, be terminated by the Department of Defense or the 
nontraditional defense contractor concerned.
    (e) Duration.--An assignment under this section shall be for a 
period of not less than three months and not more than one year.
    (f) Status of Federal Employees Assigned to Contractors.--An 
employee of the Department of Defense who is assigned to a 
nontraditional defense contractor under this section shall be 
considered, during the period of assignment, to be on detail to a 
regular work assignment in the Department for all purposes. The written 
agreement established under subsection (c) shall address the specific 
terms and conditions related to the employee's continued status as a 
Federal employee.
    (g) Terms and Conditions for Private Sector Employees.--An employee 
of a nontraditional defense contractor who is assigned to a Department 
of Defense organization under this section--
        (1) shall continue to receive pay and benefits from the 
    contractor from which such employee is assigned;
        (2) shall be deemed to be an employee of the Department of 
    Defense for the purposes of--
            (A) chapter 73 of title 5, United States Code;
            (B) sections 201, 203, 205, 207, 208, 209, 603, 606, 607, 
        643, 654, 1905, and 1913 of title 18, United States Code, and 
        any other conflict of interest statute;
            (C) sections 1343, 1344, and 1349(b) of title 31, United 
        States Code;
            (D) chapter 171 and section 1346(b) of title 28, United 
        States Code (popularly known as the Federal Tort Claims Act), 
        and any other Federal tort liability statute;
            (E) the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App. 101 
        et seq.);
            (F) chapter 21 of title 41, United States Code; and
            (G) subchapter I of chapter 81 of title 5, United States 
        Code, relating to compensation for work-related injuries; and
        (3) may not have access, while the employee is assigned to a 
    Department organization, to any trade secrets or to any other 
    nonpublic information which is of commercial value to the 
    contractor from which such employee is assigned.
    (h) Prohibition Against Charging Certain Costs to Federal 
Government.--A nontraditional defense contractor may not charge the 
Department of Defense or any other agency of the Federal Government, as 
direct or indirect costs under a Federal contract, the costs of pay or 
benefits paid by the contractor to an employee assigned to a Department 
organization under this section for the period of the assignment.
    (i) Consideration.--In providing for assignments of employees under 
this section, the Secretary of Defense shall take into consideration 
the question of how assignments might best be used to help meet the 
needs of the Department of Defense with respect to the training of 
employees in financial management or in acquisition.
    (j) Numerical Limitations.--
        (1) Department employees.--The number of employees of the 
    Department of Defense who may be assigned to nontraditional defense 
    contractors under this section at any given time may not exceed the 
    following:
            (A) Five employees in the field of financial management.
            (B) Five employees in the acquisition field.
        (2) Nontraditional defense contractor employees.--The total 
    number of nontraditional defense contractor employees who may be 
    assigned to the Department under this section at any given time may 
    not exceed 10 such employees.
    (k) Termination of Authority for Assignments.--No assignment of an 
employee may commence under this section after September 30, 2019.
SEC. 1111. PILOT PROGRAM ON ENHANCED PAY AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN 
ACQUISITION AND TECHNOLOGY POSITIONS IN THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Pilot Program Authorized.--The Secretary of Defense may carry 
out a pilot program to assess the feasibility and advisability of using 
the pay authority specified in subsection (d) to fix the rate of basic 
pay for positions described in subsection (c) in order to assist the 
Office of the Secretary of Defense and the military departments in 
attracting and retaining high-quality acquisition and technology 
experts in positions responsible for managing and developing complex, 
high-cost, technological acquisition efforts of the Department of 
Defense.
    (b) Approval Required.--The pilot program may be carried out only 
with approval as follows:
        (1) Approval of the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics, in the case of positions in the Office 
    of the Secretary of Defense.
        (2) Approval of the Service Acquisition Executive of the 
    military department concerned, in the case of positions in a 
    military department.
    (c) Positions.--The positions described in this subsection are 
positions that--
        (1) require expertise of an extremely high level in a 
    scientific, technical, professional, or acquisition management 
    field; and
        (2) are critical to the successful accomplishment of an 
    important acquisition or technology development mission.
    (d) Rate of Basic Pay.--The pay authority specified in this 
subsection is authority as follows:
        (1) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a 
    rate not to exceed 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for 
    level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics or 
    the Service Acquisition Executive concerned, as applicable.
        (2) Authority to fix the rate of basic pay for a position at a 
    rate in excess of 150 percent of the rate of basic pay payable for 
    level I of the Executive Schedule, upon the approval of the 
    Secretary of Defense.
    (e) Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--The authority in subsection (a) may be used 
    only to the extent necessary to competitively recruit or retain 
    individuals exceptionally well qualified for positions described in 
    subsection (c).
        (2) Number of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) may 
    not be used with respect to more than five positions in the Office 
    of the Secretary of Defense and more than five positions in each 
    military department at any one time.
        (3) Term of positions.--The authority in subsection (a) may be 
    used only for positions having terms less than five years.
    (f) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--The authority to fix rates of basic pay for a 
    position under this section shall terminate on October 1, 2020.
        (2) Continuation of pay.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be 
    construed to prohibit the payment after October 1, 2020, of basic 
    pay at rates fixed under this section before that date for 
    positions whose terms continue after that date.
SEC. 1112. PILOT PROGRAM ON DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR VETERAN TECHNICAL 
EXPERTS INTO THE DEFENSE ACQUISITION WORKFORCE.
    (a) Pilot Program.--The Secretary of Defense may carry out a pilot 
program to assess the feasibility and advisability of appointing 
qualified veteran candidates to positions described in subsection (b) 
in the defense acquisition workforce of the military departments 
without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 
5, United States Code. The Secretary shall carry out the pilot program 
in each military department through the service acquisition executive 
of such military department.
    (b) Positions.--The positions described in this subsection are 
scientific, technical, engineering, and mathematics positions, 
including technicians, within the defense acquisition workforce.
    (c) Limitation.--Authority under subsection (a) may not, in any 
calendar year and with respect to any military department, be exercised 
with respect to a number of candidates greater than the number equal to 
1 percent of the total number of positions in the acquisition workforce 
of that military department that are filled as of the close of the 
fiscal year last ending before the start of such calendar year.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``employee'' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 2105 of title 5, United States Code.
        (2) The term ``veteran'' has the meaning given that term in 
    section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
    (e) Termination.--
        (1) In general.--The authority to appoint candidates to 
    positions under the pilot program shall expire on the date that is 
    five years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
        (2) Effect on existing appointments.--The termination by 
    paragraph (1) of the authority in subsection (a) shall not affect 
    any appointment made under that authority before the termination 
    date specified in paragraph (1) in accordance with the terms of 
    such appointment.
SEC. 1113. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY FOR TECHNICAL EXPERTS INTO THE DEFENSE 
ACQUISITION WORKFORCE.
    (a) Authority.--Each Secretary of a military department may appoint 
qualified candidates possessing a scientific or engineering degree to 
positions described in subsection (b) for that military department 
without regard to the provisions of subchapter I of chapter 33 of title 
5, United States Code.
    (b) Applicability.--Positions described in this subsection are 
scientific and engineering positions within the defense acquisition 
workforce.
    (c) Limitation.--Authority under this section may not, in any 
calendar year and with respect to any military department, be exercised 
with respect to a number of candidates greater than the number equal to 
5 percent of the total number of scientific and engineering positions 
within the acquisition workforce of that military department that are 
filled as of the close of the fiscal year last ending before the start 
of such calendar year.
    (d) Nature of Appointment.--Any appointment under this section 
shall be treated as an appointment on a full-time equivalent basis, 
unless such appointment is made on a term or temporary basis.
    (e) Employee Defined.--In this section, the term ``employee'' has 
the meaning given that term in section 2105 of title 5, United States 
Code.
    (f) Termination.--The authority to make appointments under this 
section shall not be available after December 31, 2020.

             TITLE XII--MATTERS RELATING TO FOREIGN NATIONS

                   Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

Sec. 1201. One-year extension of logistical support for coalition forces 
          supporting certain United States military operations.
Sec. 1202. Strategic framework for Department of Defense security 
          cooperation.
Sec. 1203. Redesignation, modification, and extension of National Guard 
          State Partnership Program.
Sec. 1204. Extension of authority for non-reciprocal exchanges of 
          defense personnel between the United States and foreign 
          countries.
Sec. 1205. Monitoring and evaluation of overseas humanitarian, disaster, 
          and civic aid programs of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1206. One-year extension of funding limitations for authority to 
          build the capacity of foreign security forces.
Sec. 1207. Authority to provide support to national military forces of 
          allied countries for counterterrorism operations in Africa.
Sec. 1208. Reports on training of foreign military intelligence units 
          provided by the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1209. Prohibition on security assistance to entities in Yemen 
          controlled by the Houthi movement.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

Sec. 1211. Extension and modification of Commanders' Emergency Response 
          Program.
Sec. 1212. Extension and modification of authority for reimbursement of 
          certain coalition nations for support provided to United 
          States military operations.
Sec. 1213. Additional matter in semiannual report on enhancing security 
          and stability in Afghanistan.
Sec. 1214. Extension of authority to acquire products and services 
          produced in countries along a major route of supply to 
          Afghanistan.
Sec. 1215. Extension of authority to transfer defense articles and 
          provide defense services to the military and security forces 
          of Afghanistan.
Sec. 1216. Modification of protection for Afghan allies.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria and Iraq

Sec. 1221. Extension of authority to support operations and activities 
          of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
Sec. 1222. Strategy for the Middle East and to counter violent 
          extremism.
Sec. 1223. Modification of authority to provide assistance to counter 
          the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant.
Sec. 1224. Reports on United States Armed Forces deployed in support of 
          Operation Inherent Resolve.
Sec. 1225. Matters relating to support for the vetted Syrian opposition.
Sec. 1226. Support to the Government of Jordan and the Government of 
          Lebanon for border security operations.
Sec. 1227. Sense of Congress on the security and protection of Iranian 
          dissidents living in Camp Liberty, Iraq.

                  Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Iran

Sec. 1231. Modification and extension of annual report on the military 
          power of Iran.
Sec. 1232. Sense of Congress on the Government of Iran's malign 
          activities.
Sec. 1233. Report on military-to-military engagements with Iran.
Sec. 1234. Security guarantees to countries in the Middle East.
Sec. 1235. Rule of construction.

         Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

Sec. 1241. Notifications relating to testing, production, deployment, 
          and sale or transfer to other states or non-state actors of 
          the Club-K cruise missile system by the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1242. Notifications of deployment of nuclear weapons by Russian 
          Federation to territory of Ukrainian Republic or Russian 
          territory of Kaliningrad.
Sec. 1243. Measures in response to non-compliance by the Russian 
          Federation with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
Sec. 1244. Modification of notification and assessment of proposal to 
          modify or introduce new aircraft or sensors for flight by the 
          Russian Federation under the Open Skies Treaty.
Sec. 1245. Prohibition on availability of funds relating to sovereignty 
          of the Russian Federation over Crimea.
Sec. 1246. Limitation on military cooperation between the United States 
          and the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1247. Report on implementation of the New START Treaty.
Sec. 1248. Additional matters in annual report on military and security 
          developments involving the Russian Federation.
Sec. 1249. Report on alternative capabilities to procure and sustain 
          nonstandard rotary wing aircraft historically procured through 
          Rosoboronexport.
Sec. 1250. Ukraine Security Assistance Initiative.
Sec. 1251. Training for Eastern European national military forces in the 
          course of multilateral exercises.

         Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region

Sec. 1261. Strategy to promote United States interests in the Indo-Asia-
          Pacific region.
Sec. 1262. Requirement to submit Department of Defense policy regarding 
          foreign disclosure or technology release of Aegis Ashore 
          capability to Japan.
Sec. 1263. South China Sea Initiative.

                        Subtitle G--Other Matters

Sec. 1271. Two-year extension and modification of authorization for non-
          conventional assisted recovery capabilities.
Sec. 1272. Amendment to the annual report under Arms Control and 
          Disarmament Act.
Sec. 1273. Extension of authorization to conduct activities to enhance 
          the capability of foreign countries to respond to incidents 
          involving weapons of mass destruction.
Sec. 1274. Modification of authority for support of special operations 
          to combat terrorism.
Sec. 1275. Limitation on availability of funds to implement the Arms 
          Trade Treaty.
Sec. 1276. Report on the security relationship between the United States 
          and the Republic of Cyprus.
Sec. 1277. Sense of Congress on European defense and the North Atlantic 
          Treaty Organization.
Sec. 1278. Briefing on the sale of certain fighter aircraft to Qatar.
Sec. 1279. United States-Israel anti-tunnel cooperation.
Sec. 1280. NATO Special Operations Headquarters.
Sec. 1281. Increased presence of United States ground forces in Eastern 
          Europe to deter aggression on the border of the North Atlantic 
          Treaty Organization.

                  Subtitle A--Assistance and Training

SEC. 1201. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF LOGISTICAL SUPPORT FOR COALITION 
FORCES SUPPORTING CERTAIN UNITED STATES MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    Section 1234 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 394), as most recently amended 
by section 1223(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3548), is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``fiscal year 2015'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2016'';
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``during the period 
    beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending on December 31, 2015'' and 
    inserting ``during the period beginning on October 1, 2015, and 
    ending on December 31, 2016''; and
        (3) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
SEC. 1202. STRATEGIC FRAMEWORK FOR DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE SECURITY 
COOPERATION.
    (a) Strategic Framework.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with 
    the Secretary of State, shall develop and issue to the Department 
    of Defense a strategic framework for Department of Defense security 
    cooperation to guide prioritization of resources and activities.
        (2) Elements.--The strategic framework required by paragraph 
    (1) shall include the following:
            (A) Discussion of the strategic goals of Department of 
        Defense security cooperation programs, overall and by combatant 
        command, and the extent to which these programs--
                (i) support broader strategic priorities of the 
            Department of Defense; and
                (ii) complement and are coordinated with Department of 
            State security assistance programs to achieve United States 
            Government goals globally, regionally, and, if appropriate, 
            within specific programs.
            (B) Identification of the primary objectives, priorities, 
        and desired end-states of Department of Defense security 
        cooperation programs.
            (C) Identification of challenges to achieving the primary 
        objectives, priorities, and desired end-states identified under 
        subparagraph (B), including--
                (i) constraints on Department of Defense resources, 
            authorities, and personnel;
                (ii) partner nation variables and conditions, such as 
            political will, absorptive capacity, corruption, and 
            instability risk, that impact the likelihood of a security 
            cooperation program achieving its primary objectives, 
            priorities, and desired end-states;
                (iii) constraints or limitations due to bureaucratic 
            impediments, interagency processes, or congressional 
            requirements;
                (iv) validation of requirements; and
                (v) assessment, monitoring, and evaluation.
            (D) A methodology for assessing the effectiveness of 
        Department of Defense security cooperation programs in making 
        progress toward achieving the primary objectives, priorities, 
        and desired end-states identified under subparagraph (B), 
        including an identification of key benchmarks for such 
        progress.
            (E) Any other matters the Secretary of Defense determines 
        appropriate.
        (3) Frequency.--The Secretary of Defense shall, at a minimum, 
    update the strategic framework required by paragraph (1) on a 
    biennial basis and shall update or supplement the strategic 
    framework as appropriate to address emerging priorities.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and on a biennial basis thereafter, the 
    Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    on the strategic framework required by subsection (a).
        (2) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in an unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
        (3) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``appropriate 
    congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (c) Sunset.--This section shall cease to be effective on the date 
that is 6 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 1203. REDESIGNATION, MODIFICATION, AND EXTENSION OF NATIONAL GUARD 
STATE PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.
    (a) Redesignation.--The heading of section 1205 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 
Stat. 897; 32 U.S.C. 107 note) is amended to read as follows:
``SEC. 1205. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE STATE PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM.''.
    (b) Scope of Authority.--Subsection (a) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a program of exchanges'' 
    and all that follows and inserting ``a program of activities 
    described in paragraph (2), to support the security cooperation 
    objectives of the United States, between members of the National 
    Guard of a State or territory and any of the following:
            ``(A) The military forces of a foreign country.
            ``(B) The security forces of a foreign country.
            ``(C) Governmental organizations of a foreign country whose 
        primary functions include disaster response or emergency 
        response.''; and
        (2) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) State partnership.--Each program established under this 
    subsection shall be known as a `State Partnership'.''.
    (c) Limitation.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended by 
striking ``activity under a program'' and all that follows through 
``State or territory,'' and inserting ``activity with forces referred 
to in subsection (a)(1)(B) or organizations described in subsection 
(a)(1)(C) under a program established under subsection (a)''.
    (d) Coordination of Activities.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (c) through (g) as subsections 
    (d) through (h), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection (c):
    ``(c) Coordination of Activities.--The Chief of the National Guard 
Bureau shall designate a director for each State and territory to be 
responsible for the coordination of activities under a program 
established under subsection (a) for such State or territory and 
reporting on activities under the program.''.
    (e) Annual Report.--Paragraph (2)(B) of subsection (f) of such 
section, as redesignated by subsection (d)(1) of this section, is 
amended--
        (1) in clause (iii), by inserting ``or other government 
    organizations'' after ``and security forces'';
        (2) in clause (iv), by adding before the period at the the 
    following: ``and country'';
        (3) in clause (v), by striking ``training'' and inserting 
    ``activities''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following:
                ``(vi) An assessment of the extent to which the 
            activities conducted during the previous year met the 
            objectives described in clause (v).''.
    (f) State Partnership Program Fund.--
        (1) Assessment of establishment of fund.--Not later than 180 
    days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Policy and the Under Secretary of Defense 
    (Comptroller) shall jointly submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report setting forth a joint assessment of the 
    feasibility and advisability of establishing a central fund to 
    manage funds for programs and activities under the Department of 
    Defense State Partnership Program under section 1205 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014, as amended 
    by this section.
        (2) Recommendation for legislative action.--If the report under 
    paragraph (1) concludes that the establishment of a fund as 
    described in that paragraph is feasible and advisable, the 
    Secretary of Defense shall include with the materials submitted to 
    Congress in support of the budget of the President for fiscal year 
    2017 pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, a 
    recommendation for such legislation as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate to establish the fund.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Paragraph (2)(A) of subsection (f) of 
such section, as redesignated by subsection (d)(1) of this section, is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``a program'' and inserting ``each program''; 
    and
        (2) by striking ``the program'' and inserting ``such program''.
    (h) Recipients of Reports and Notifications.--Paragraph (1) of 
subsection (h) of such section, as redesignated by subsection (d)(1) of 
this section, is amended by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B) and 
inserting the following new subparagraphs (A) and (B):
            ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.''.
    (i) Five-year Extension.--Subsection (i) of such section is amended 
by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2021''.
SEC. 1204. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR NON-RECIPROCAL EXCHANGES OF 
DEFENSE PERSONNEL BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES AND FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
    Section 1207(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2514; 10 U.S.C. 168 
note), as amended by section 1202 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 1980), is 
further amended by striking ``September 30, 2016'' and inserting 
``December 31, 2021''.
SEC. 1205. MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN, 
DISASTER, AND CIVIC AID PROGRAMS OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act for Overseas Humanitarian, Disaster, and Civic Aid, the 
Secretary of Defense is authorized to use up to 5 percent of such 
amounts to conduct monitoring and evaluation of programs that are 
funded using such amounts during fiscal year 2016.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide a 
briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on mechanisms to 
evaluate the programs conducted pursuant to the authorities listed in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1206. ONE-YEAR EXTENSION OF FUNDING LIMITATIONS FOR AUTHORITY TO 
BUILD THE CAPACITY OF FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES.
    Section 1205(d) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3536) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking ``for fiscal year 2015'' and all that 
        follows through ``section 4301'' and inserting ``for fiscal 
        year 2015 or 2016 for the Department of Defense for operation 
        and maintenance''; and
            (B) by inserting ``, in such fiscal year'' before the 
        period; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``for fiscal year 2015'' and 
    inserting ``for a fiscal year specified in that paragraph''.
SEC. 1207. AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE SUPPORT TO NATIONAL MILITARY FORCES OF 
ALLIED COUNTRIES FOR COUNTERTERRORISM OPERATIONS IN AFRICA.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide, on a 
nonreimbursable basis, logistic support, supplies, and services to the 
national military forces of an allied country conducting 
counterterrorism operations in Africa if the Secretary of Defense 
determines that the provision of such logistic support, supplies, and 
services, on a nonreimbursable basis, is--
        (1) in the national security interests of the United States; 
    and
        (2) critical to the timely and effective participation of such 
    national military forces in such operations.
    (b) Notice to Congress on Support Provided.--Not later than 15 days 
after providing logistic support, supplies, or services under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a notice setting forth the following:
        (1) The determination of the Secretary specified in subsection 
    (a).
        (2) The type of logistic support, supplies, or services 
    provided.
        (3) The national military forces supported.
        (4) The purpose of the operations for which such support was 
    provided, and the objectives of such support.
        (5) The estimated cost of such support.
        (6) The intended duration of such support.
    (c) Limitations.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may not use the 
    authority in subsection (a) to provide any type of support that is 
    otherwise prohibited by any other provision of law.
        (2) Amount.--The aggregate amount of logistic support, 
    supplies, and services provided under subsection (a) in any fiscal 
    year may not exceed $100,000,000.
    (d) Reports.--Not later than six months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every six months thereafter through the 
expiration date in subsection (f) of the authority provided by this 
section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report setting forth a description of the use of 
the authority provided by this section during the six-month period 
ending on the date of such report. Each report shall include the 
following:
        (1) An assessment of the extent to which the support provided 
    under this section during the period covered by such report 
    facilitated the national military forces of allied countries so 
    supported in conducting counterterrorism operations in Africa.
        (2) A description of any efforts by countries that received 
    such support to address, as practicable, the requirements of their 
    forces for logistics support, supplies, or services for conducting 
    counterterrorism operations in Africa, including under acquisition 
    and cross-servicing agreements.
    (e) Logistic Support, Supplies, and Services Defined.--In this 
section, the term ``logistic support, supplies, and services'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 2350(1) of title 10, United States 
Code.
    (f) Expiration.--The authority provided by this section may not be 
exercised after September 30, 2018.
SEC. 1208. REPORTS ON TRAINING OF FOREIGN MILITARY INTELLIGENCE UNITS 
PROVIDED BY THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 30 days after each calendar 
half-year beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act 
and ending with the second calendar half-year of 2017, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Intelligence shall submit to the Committees of 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report 
setting forth the following:
        (1) All the training of foreign military intelligence units 
    provided by the Department during the calendar half-year covered by 
    such report.
        (2) The authority or authorities under which the training 
    described in paragraph (1) was provided.
    (b) Form.--Each report under subsection (a) should be submitted in 
classified form.
SEC. 1209. PROHIBITION ON SECURITY ASSISTANCE TO ENTITIES IN YEMEN 
CONTROLLED BY THE HOUTHI MOVEMENT.
    (a) Prohibition.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated for 
fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense by this Act may be used 
to provide security assistance to an entity in Yemen that is controlled 
by members of the Houthi movement.
    (b) National Security Exception.--
        (1) In general.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
    apply if the Secretary of Defense determines, with the concurrence 
    of the Secretary of State, that the provision of security 
    assistance as described in that subsection is important to the 
    national security interests of the United States.
        (2) Notice and wait.--If security assistance as described in 
    subsection (a) is provided pursuant to an exception under paragraph 
    (1), not later than 15 days before such assistance is so provided, 
    the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly 
    submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a notice on the 
    provision of such assistance, together with an assessment by the 
    Director of National Intelligence on whether any entity controlled 
    by members of the Houthi movement to be provided such assistance is 
    also receiving direct assistance from the Government of Iran.
        (3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.

        Subtitle B--Matters Relating to Afghanistan and Pakistan

SEC. 1211. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF COMMANDERS' EMERGENCY RESPONSE 
PROGRAM.
    (a) One-year Extension.--Section 1201 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 
1619), as most recently amended by section 1221 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3546), is further amended by 
striking ``fiscal year 2015'' in subsections (a), (b), and (f) and 
inserting ``fiscal year 2016''.
    (b) Restriction on Amount of Payments.--Subsection (e) of such 
section 1201, as so amended, is further amended by striking 
``$2,000,000'' and inserting ``$500,000''.
    (c) Submittal of Revised Guidance.--Not later than 15 days after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the congressional defense committees a copy of the guidance 
issued by the Secretary to the Armed Forces concerning the Commanders' 
Emergency Response Program in Afghanistan as revised to take into 
account the amendments made by this section.
    (d) Authority for Certain Payments To Redress Injury and Loss in 
Iraq.--
        (1) In general.--During fiscal year 2016, amounts available 
    pursuant to section 1201 of the National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2012, as amended by this section, shall also be 
    available for ex gratia payments for damage, personal injury, or 
    death that is incident to combat operations of the Armed Forces in 
    Iraq.
        (2) Notice and wait.--The authority in this subsection may not 
    be used until 30 days after the date on which the Secretary of 
    Defense submits to the congressional defense committees a report 
    setting forth the following:
            (A) The amount that will be used for payments pursuant to 
        this subsection.
            (B) The manner in which claims for payments shall be 
        verified.
            (C) The officers or officials who shall be authorized to 
        approve claims for payments.
            (D) The manner in which payments shall be made.
        (3) Limitation on amount available.--The total amount of 
    payments made pursuant to this subsection in fiscal year 2016 may 
    not exceed $5,000,000.
        (4) Authorities applicable to payment.--Any payment made 
    pursuant to this subsection shall be made in accordance with the 
    authorities and limitations in section 8121 of the Department of 
    Defense Appropriations Act, 2015 (division C of Public Law 113-
    235), other than subsection (h) of such section.
        (5) Construction with restriction on amount of payments.--For 
    purposes of the application of subsection (e) of such section 1201, 
    as so amended, to any payment pursuant to this subsection, such 
    payment shall be deemed to be a project described by such 
    subsection (e).
SEC. 1212. EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR REIMBURSEMENT OF 
CERTAIN COALITION NATIONS FOR SUPPORT PROVIDED TO UNITED STATES 
MILITARY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (a) of section 1233 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 
Stat. 393), as most recently amended by section 1222 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3547), is further 
amended by striking ``fiscal year 2015'' and inserting ``fiscal year 
2016''.
    (b) Limitation on Amounts Available.--Subsection (d)(1) of such 
section, as so amended, is further amended--
        (1) in the second sentence, by striking ``during fiscal year 
    2015 may not exceed $1,200,000,000'' and inserting ``during fiscal 
    year 2016 may not exceed $1,260,000,000''; and
        (2) in the third sentence, by striking ``during fiscal year 
    2015 may not exceed $1,000,000,000'' and inserting ``during fiscal 
    year 2016 may not exceed $900,000,000''.
    (c) Extension of Notice Requirement Relating to Reimbursement of 
Pakistan for Support Provided by Pakistan.--Section 1232(b)(6) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (122 Stat. 
393), as most recently amended by section 1222(d) of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (128 Stat. 3548), is further amended by striking ``September 
30, 2015'' and inserting ``September 30, 2016''.
    (d) Extension of Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification on Pakistan.--Section 1227(d)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2001), as most recently amended by section 1222(e) of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 (128 Stat. 3548), is further amended by striking 
``fiscal year 2015'' and inserting ``fiscal year 2016''.
    (e) Additional Limitation on Reimbursement of Pakistan Pending 
Certification on Pakistan.--Of the total amount of reimbursements and 
support authorized for Pakistan during fiscal year 2016 pursuant to the 
third sentence of section 1233(d)(1) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (as amended by subsection 
(b)(2)), $350,000,000 shall not be eligible for the waiver under 
section 1227(d)(2) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (126 Stat. 2001) unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to 
the congressional defense committees that--
        (1) Pakistan continues to conduct military operations in North 
    Waziristan that are contributing to significantly disrupting the 
    safe haven and freedom of movement of the Haqqani Network in 
    Pakistan;
        (2) Pakistan has taken steps to demonstrate its commitment to 
    prevent the Haqqani Network from using North Waziristan as a safe 
    haven; and
        (3) the Government of Pakistan actively coordinates with the 
    Government of Afghanistan to restrict the movement of militants, 
    such as the Haqqani Network, along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border.
    (f) Availability of Certain Funds for Stability Activities in 
FATA.--
        (1) In general.--In addition to the total amount of 
    reimbursements and support authorized for Pakistan during fiscal 
    year 2016 pursuant to the third sentence of section 1233(d)(1) of 
    the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 (as so 
    amended), of the total amount of funds made available for the 
    Department of Defense for fiscal year 2016 for overseas contingency 
    operations for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide activities, 
    $100,000,000 may be available for stability activities undertaken 
    by Pakistan in the Federally Administered Tribal Areas (FATA), 
    including the provision of funds to the Pakistan military and the 
    Pakistan Frontier Corps Khyber Pakhtunkhwa for activities 
    undertaken in support of the following:
            (A) Building and maintaining border outposts.
            (B) Strengthening cooperative efforts between the Pakistan 
        military and the Afghan National Defense Security Forces in 
        activities that include--
                (i) bilateral meetings to enhance border security 
            coordination;
                (ii) sustaining critical infrastructure within the 
            Federally Administered Tribal Areas, such as maintaining 
            key ground lines of communication;
                (iii) increasing training for the Pakistan Frontier 
            Corps Khyber Pakhtunkhwa; and
                (iv) training to improve interoperability between the 
            Pakistan military and the Pakistan Frontier Corps Khyber 
            Pakhtunkwha.
        (2) Limitation.--
            (A) In general.--Funds available under paragraph (1) may 
        not be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense 
        certifies to the congressional defense committees that the 
        conditions described in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of section 
        1227(d)(1) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2013 (126 Stat. 2001), as amended by subsection (d), have 
        been met.
            (B) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the 
        limitation in subparagraph (A) if the Secretary certifies to 
        the congressional defense committees in writing that the waiver 
        is in the national security interests of the United States and 
        includes with such certification a justification for the 
        waiver.
        (3) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2017, the Secretary of 
    Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    report on the expenditure of funds available under paragraph (1), 
    including a description of the following:
            (A) The purpose for which such funds were expended.
            (B) Each organization on whose behalf such funds were 
        expended, including the amount expended on such organization 
        and the number of members of such organization trained with 
        such amount.
            (C) Any limitation imposed on the expenditure of funds 
        under that paragraph, including on any recipient of funds or 
        any use of funds expended.
        (4) Appropriate congressional committees defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has 
    the meaning given that term in section 1233(g) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008.
SEC. 1213. ADDITIONAL MATTER IN SEMIANNUAL REPORT ON ENHANCING SECURITY 
AND STABILITY IN AFGHANISTAN.
    Section 1225(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3550) is amended by adding at the end the following 
new paragraph:
        ``(7) Assessment of risks associated with drawdown of united 
    states forces.--An assessment of the risks to the mission in 
    Afghanistan associated with any drawdown of United States forces 
    that occurred during the period covered by such report.''.
SEC. 1214. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO ACQUIRE PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
PRODUCED IN COUNTRIES ALONG A MAJOR ROUTE OF SUPPLY TO AFGHANISTAN.
    Section 801(f) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2399), as most recently amended 
by section 832(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 814), is further amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
SEC. 1215. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO TRANSFER DEFENSE ARTICLES AND 
PROVIDE DEFENSE SERVICES TO THE MILITARY AND SECURITY FORCES OF 
AFGHANISTAN.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 1222 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1992), as amended by section 1231 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3556), is further amended by striking 
``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 31, 2016''.
    (b) Quarterly Reports.--Subsection (f)(1) of such section, as so 
amended, is further amended by striking ``March 31, 2016'' and 
inserting ``March 31, 2017''.
    (c) Excess Defense Articles.--Subsection (i)(2) of such section, as 
so amended, is further amended by striking ``and 2015'' each place it 
appears and inserting ``, 2015, and 2016''.
SEC. 1216. MODIFICATION OF PROTECTION FOR AFGHAN ALLIES.
    (a)  Covered Afghans.--
        (1) Term of employment.--Clause (ii) of section 602(b)(2)(A) of 
    the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is 
    amended by striking ``year--'' and inserting ``year, or, if 
    submitting a petition after September 30, 2015, for a period of not 
    less than 2 years--''.
        (2) Technical amendments.--
            (A) Successor name for international security assistance 
        force.--Subclause (II) of section 602(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the 
        Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is 
        amended--
                (i) in the matter preceding item (aa), by striking 
            ``Force'' and inserting ``Force (or any successor name for 
            such Force)'';
                (ii) in item (aa), by striking ``Force,'' and inserting 
            ``Force (or any successor name for such Force),''; and
                (iii) in item (bb), by striking ``Force;'' and 
            inserting ``Force (or any successor name for such 
            Force);''.
            (B) Short title.--Section 601 of the Afghan Allies 
        Protection Act of 2009 is amended by striking ``This Act'' and 
        inserting ``This title''.
            (C) Executive agency reference.--Section 602(c)(4) of the 
        Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 is amended by striking 
        ``section 4 of the Office of Federal Procurement Policy Act (41 
        U.S.C. 403)'' and inserting ``section 133 of title 41, United 
        States Code''.
    (b) Numerical Limitations.--Subparagraph (F) of section 602(b)(3) 
of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is 
amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``2015 AND 2016'' and inserting 
    ``2015, 2016, AND 2017'';
        (2) in the matter preceding clause (i)--
            (A) by striking ``and ending on September 30, 2016'', and 
        inserting ``until such time that available special immigrant 
        visas under subparagraphs (D) and (E) and this subparagraph are 
        exhausted,'' and
            (B) by striking ``4,000.'' and inserting ``7,000.'';
        (3) in clause (i), by striking ``September 30, 2015;'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2016;'';
        (4) in clause (ii), by striking ``December 31, 2015;'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2016;''; and
        (5) in clause (iii), by striking ``March 31, 2017.'' and 
    inserting ``the date such visas are exhausted.''.
    (c) Reports and Sense of Congress.--Section 602(b) of the Afghan 
Allies Protection Act of 2009 (8 U.S.C. 1101 note) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
        ``(15) Reports informing the conclusion of the afghan special 
    immigrant visa program.--Not later than June 1, 2016, and every six 
    months thereafter, the Secretary of Defense, in conjunction with 
    the Secretary of State, shall submit to the Committee on Armed 
    Services and the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on the Judiciary of 
    the House of Representatives a report that contains--
            ``(A) a description of the United States force presence in 
        Afghanistan during the previous 6 months;
            ``(B) a description of the projected United States force 
        presence in Afghanistan;
            ``(C) the number of citizens or nationals of Afghanistan 
        who were employed by or on behalf of the entities described in 
        paragraph (2)(A)(ii) during the previous 6 months; and
            ``(D) the projected number of such citizens or nationals 
        who will be employed by or on behalf of such entities.
        ``(16) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
    necessity of providing special immigrant status under this 
    subsection should be assessed at regular intervals by the Committee 
    on Armed Services of the Senate and the Committee on Armed Services 
    of the House of Representatives, taking into account the scope of 
    the current and planned presence of United States troops in 
    Afghanistan, the current and prospective numbers of citizens and 
    nationals of Afghanistan employed by or on behalf of the entities 
    described in paragraph (2)(A)(ii), and the security climate in 
    Afghanistan.''.

             Subtitle C--Matters Relating to Syria and Iraq

SEC. 1221. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO SUPPORT OPERATIONS AND ACTIVITIES 
OF THE OFFICE OF SECURITY COOPERATION IN IRAQ.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (f)(1) of section 1215 of 
the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (10 U.S.C. 
113 note) is amended by striking ``fiscal year 2015'' and inserting 
``fiscal year 2016''.
    (b) Amount Available.--Such section is further amended--
        (1) in subsection (c), by striking ``fiscal year 2015'' and all 
    that follows and inserting ``fiscal year 2016 may not exceed 
    $80,000,000.''; and
        (2) in subsection (d), by striking ``fiscal year 2015'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2016''.
    (c) Superseding Report Requirements.--Subsection (g) of such 
section is amended to read as follows:
    ``(g) Reports.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than September 30, 2015, and every 
    180 days thereafter until the authority in this section expires, 
    the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation with the Secretary 
    of State, submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report 
    on the activities of the Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq.
        ``(2) Elements.--Each report under this subsection shall 
    include the following:
            ``(A) A current description of capability gaps in the 
        security forces of Iraq, including capability gaps relating to 
        intelligence matters, protection of Iraq airspace, and 
        logistics and maintenance, and a current description of the 
        extent, if any, to which the Government of Iraq has requested 
        assistance in addressing such capability gaps.
            ``(B) A current description of the activities of the Office 
        of Security Cooperation in Iraq and the extent, if any, to 
        which the programs conducted by the Office in conjunction with 
        other United States programs (such as the Foreign Military 
        Financing program, the Foreign Military Sales program, and the 
        assistance provided pursuant to section 1236 of the Carl Levin 
        and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
        for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291)) will address the 
        capability gaps described pursuant to subparagraph (A).
            ``(C) A current description of how the activities of the 
        Office of Security Cooperation in Iraq are coordinated with, 
        and complement and enhance, the assistance provided pursuant to 
        section 1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. `Buck' McKeon 
        National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015.
            ``(D) A current description of end use monitoring programs, 
        and any other programs or procedures, used to improve 
        accountability for equipment provided to the Government of 
        Iraq.
            ``(E) A current description of the measures of 
        effectiveness used to evaluate the activities of the Office of 
        the Security Cooperation in Iraq, and an analysis of any 
        determinations to expand, alter, or terminate specific 
        activities of the Office based on such evaluations.
            ``(F) A current evaluation of the effectiveness of the 
        training described in subsection (f)(2) in promoting respect 
        for human rights, military professionalism, and respect for 
        legitimate civilian authority in Iraq.
        ``(3) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term `appropriate committees of Congress' means--
            ``(A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.''.
SEC. 1222. STRATEGY FOR THE MIDDLE EAST AND TO COUNTER VIOLENT 
EXTREMISM.
    (a) Strategy Required.--Not later than February 15, 2016, the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall jointly submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress a strategy for the Middle East 
and to counter violent extremism.
    (b) Elements.--The strategy required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) A description of the objectives and end state for the 
    United States in the Middle East and with respect to violent 
    extremism.
        (2) A description of the roles and responsibilities of the 
    Department of State in the strategy.
        (3) A description of the roles and responsibilities of the 
    Department of Defense in the strategy.
        (4) A description of actions to prevent the weakening and 
    failing of states in the Middle East.
        (5) A description of actions to counter violent extremism.
        (6) A description of the resources required by the Department 
    of Defense to counter ISIL's illicit oil revenues.
        (7) A list of the state and non-state actors that must be 
    engaged to counter violent extremism.
        (8) A description of the coalition required to carry out the 
    strategy, and the expected lines of effort of such a coalition.
        (9) An assessment of United States efforts to disrupt and 
    prevent foreign fighters traveling to Syria and Iraq and to disrupt 
    and prevent foreign fighters in Syria and Iraq traveling to the 
    United States.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In the section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.
SEC. 1223. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO PROVIDE ASSISTANCE TO COUNTER 
THE ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND THE LEVANT.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that--
        (1) the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) poses an 
    acute threat to the people and territorial integrity of Iraq, 
    including the Iraqi Kurdistan Region, Iraqi Sunni communities, and 
    Iraq's religious and ethnic minorities, and to the security and 
    stability of the Middle East and beyond the region;
        (2) defeating ISIL is critical to maintaining a unified Iraq in 
    which all faiths, sects, and ethnicities are afforded equal 
    protection and full integration into the Government and society of 
    Iraq; and
        (3) the United States should, in coordination with coalition 
    partners, provide, in an expeditious and responsive manner and 
    without undue delay, the military and other security forces of or 
    associated with the Government of Iraq, including Kurdish and 
    tribal security forces and other local security forces, with a 
    national security mission, with defense articles, defense services, 
    and related training to more effectively partner with the United 
    States and other international coalition members to defeat ISIL.
    (b) Quarterly Progress Report.--
        (1) In general.--Subsection (d) of section 1236 of the Carl 
    Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3559) is 
    amended--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``30 
        days'' and inserting ``90 days''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
        ``(11) A list of the forces or elements of forces that are 
    restricted from receiving assistance under subsection (a), other 
    than the forces or elements of forces with respect to which the 
    Secretary of Defense has exercised the waiver authority under 
    subsection (j), as a result of vetting required by subsection (e) 
    or section 2249e of title 10, United States Code, and a detailed 
    description of the reasons for such restriction, including for each 
    force or element, as applicable, the following:
            ``(A) Information relating to gross violation of human 
        rights committed by such force or element, including the time-
        frame of the alleged violation.
            ``(B) The source of the information described in 
        subparagraph (A) and an assessment of the veracity of the 
        information.
            ``(C) The association of such force or element with 
        terrorist groups or groups associated with the Government of 
        Iran.
            ``(D) The amount and type of any assistance provided to 
        such force or element by the Government of Iran.''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall 
    apply with respect to reports required to be submitted pursuant to 
    subsection (d) of section 1236 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
    ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015, as so amended, on or after such date of enactment.
    (c) Funding.--Subsection (g) of such section is amended by striking 
the first sentence and inserting the following: ``Of the amounts 
authorized to be appropriated in the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2016 for Overseas Contingency Operations in title XV 
for fiscal year 2016, there are authorized to be appropriated 
$715,000,000 to carry out this section.''.
    (d) Waiver Authority.--Subsection (j) of such section is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking by striking 
        ``Sections 40 and 40A'' and inserting ``Section 40A''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) Additional waiver authority.--
                ``(i) In general.--For purposes of the provision of 
            assistance described in subsection (l)(2), the Secretary of 
            Defense may waive any provision of law described in clause 
            (ii) if the Secretary satisfies the requirements described 
            in clauses (i) and (ii) of subparagraph (A) with respect to 
            such waiver.
                ``(ii) Provisions of law.--The provisions of law 
            described in this clause are the following:

                    ``(I) Any provision of law described in 
                subparagraph (B).
                    ``(II) Any eligibility requirement under section 3 
                of the Arms Export Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2753).
                    ``(III) Any eligibility requirement under chapter 2 
                of part II of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 
                U.S.C. 2311 et seq.).''; and

        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``For purposes'' and all that 
    follows through ``described in paragraph (1)(B)'' and inserting 
    ``The President may waive any provision of law other than a 
    provision of law described in paragraph (1)(B) for purposes of the 
    provision of assistance pursuant to subsection (a) and any 
    provision of law other than a provision of law described in 
    subsection (1)(C) for purposes of the provision of assistance 
    described in subsection (l)(2)''.
    (e) Assessment and Authority to Assist Directly Certain Covered 
Groups.--Such section, as so amended, is further amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(l) Assessment and Authority to Assist Directly Certain Covered 
Groups.--
        ``(1) Assessment.--
            ``(A) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
        of the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2016, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
        State shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees an assessment of the extent to which the Government 
        of Iraq is increasing political inclusiveness, addressing the 
        grievances of ethnic and sectarian minorities, and enhancing 
        minority integration in the political and military structures 
        in Iraq.
            ``(B) Factors to be considered in making assessment.--In 
        making the assessment described in subparagraph (A), the 
        Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of State shall consider 
        the following factors:
                ``(i) The extent to which the Government of Iraq is 
            taking steps to reduce support among the Iraqi people for 
            the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) and improve 
            stability in Iraq.
                ``(ii) The progress of efforts to enact legislation 
            establishing the Iraqi National Guard, particularly in 
            predominantly Sunni regions.
                ``(iii) The extent to which the Government of Iraq is 
            expanding the representation of minorities in adequate 
            numbers in government security organizations and providing 
            for the training and equipping of such forces.
                ``(iv) Whether the Government of Iraq is ending support 
            for Shia militias under the command and control of, or 
            associated with, the Government of Iran, and stopping 
            abuses of elements of the Iraqi population by such 
            militias.
                ``(v) Whether the Government of Iraq is ensuring that 
            supplies, equipment, and weaponry supplied by the United 
            States are appropriately distributed to security forces 
            with a national security mission in Iraq, including the 
            Kurdish Peshmerga, Sunni tribal security forces and local 
            security forces with a national security mission, and, once 
            established, the Iraqi Sunni National Guard.
                ``(vi) Whether the Government of Iraq is addressing 
            grievances regarding the arrest and detention without trial 
            of ethnic and sectarian minorities or is taking steps to 
            prosecute such individuals that are detained in a fair, 
            transparent, and prompt manner.
                ``(vii) Such other factors as the Secretaries consider 
            appropriate.
            ``(C) Update.--The Secretary of Defense and the Secretary 
        of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees an update of the assessment required under 
        subparagraph (A) not later than 180 days after the date on 
        which the assessment is submitted to the appropriate 
        congressional committees under subparagraph (A).
            ``(D) Submission.--The assessment required under 
        subparagraph (A) and the update of the assessment authorized 
        under subparagraph (C) may be submitted as part of the 
        quarterly report required under subsection (d).
        ``(2) Assistance directly to certain covered groups.--
            ``(A) In general.--If the President, taking into account 
        the results of the assessment required under paragraph (1)(A) 
        or the update required under paragraph (1)(C), determines and 
        notifies the appropriate congressional committees that the 
        Government of Iraq has failed to take substantial action to 
        increase political inclusiveness, address the grievances of 
        ethnic and sectarian minorities, and enhance minority 
        integration in the political and military structures in Iraq, 
        the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of 
        State, is authorized to provide, in coordination to the extent 
        practicable with the Government of Iraq, assistance under the 
        authority of subsection (a) directly to the groups described in 
        subparagraph (D) for the purpose of supporting international 
        coalition efforts against ISIL.
            ``(B) Administrative provisions.--In carrying out 
        subparagraph (A), the Secretary of Defense may--
                ``(i) re-allocate the amount of assistance authorized 
            under subsection (a) to increase the share of such 
            assistance provided to the groups described in subparagraph 
            (D); and
                ``(ii) exercise the waiver authority provided in 
            subsection (j)(1)(C) with respect to providing assistance 
            to the groups described in subparagraph (D).
            ``(C) Cost-sharing requirement inapplicable.--The cost-
        sharing requirement of subsection (k) shall not apply with 
        respect to funds that are obligated or expended under this 
        subsection for assistance provided directly to the groups 
        described in subparagraph (D).
            ``(D) Covered groups.--The groups described in this 
        subparagraph are--
                ``(i) the Kurdish Peshmerga; and
                ``(ii) Sunni tribal security forces, or other local 
            security forces, with a national security mission.''.
    (f) Prohibition on Assistance and Report on Equipment or Supplies 
Transferred to or Acquired by Violent Extremist Organizations.--
        (1) Prohibition.--Assistance authorized under section 1236 of 
    the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
    Stat. 3558), as so amended, may not be provided to the Government 
    of Iraq after the date that is 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act unless the Secretary of Defense certifies to 
    the appropriate congressional committees, after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, that the Government of Iraq has taken such 
    actions as may be reasonably necessary to safeguard against such 
    assistance being transferred to or acquired by violent extremist 
    organizations.
        (2) Report.--
            (A) Report required.--Not later than 30 days after the date 
        on which the Secretary of Defense makes any determination that 
        equipment or supplies provided pursuant to section 1236(a) of 
        the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
        Stat. 3558), as so amended, have been transferred to or 
        acquired by a violent extremist organization, the Secretary 
        shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
        report that contains a description of the determination of the 
        Secretary and the transfer to or acquisition by the violent 
        extremist organization.
            (B) Elements.--Each report under paragraph (1) shall 
        include, with respect to the transfer covered by the report, 
        the following:
                (i) An assessment of the type and quantity of equipment 
            or supplies transferred to the violent extremist 
            organization.
                (ii) A description of the criteria used to determine 
            that the organization is a violent extremist organization.
                (iii) A description, if known, of how the equipment or 
            supplies were transferred to or acquired by the violent 
            extremist organization.
                (iv) If the equipment or supplies are determined to 
            remain under the current control of the violent extremist 
            organization, a description of the organization, including 
            its relationship, if any, to the security forces of the 
            Government of Iraq.
                (v) A description of the end use monitoring or other 
            policies and procedures in place in order to prevent 
            equipment or supplies to be transferred to or acquired by 
            violent extremist organizations.
        (3) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                (i) the congressional defense committees; and
                (ii) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate 
            and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
            Representatives.
            (B) Violent extremist organization.--The term ``violent 
        extremist organization'' means an organization that--
                (i) is a foreign terrorist organization designated by 
            the Secretary of State under section 219 of the Immigration 
            and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189) or is associated with a 
            foreign terrorist organization; or
                (ii) is known to be under the command and control of, 
            or is associated with, the Government of Iran.
SEC. 1224. REPORTS ON UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES DEPLOYED IN SUPPORT OF 
OPERATION INHERENT RESOLVE.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on United States Armed Forces deployed in support of Operation Inherent 
Resolve.
    (b) Elements.--Each report under subsection (a) shall include the 
following:
        (1) The total number of members of the United States Armed 
    Forces deployed in support of Operation Inherent Resolve for the 
    most recent month for which data is available, delineated by Armed 
    Force and component (including whether regular, National Guard, or 
    Reserve).
        (2) An estimate for the three-month period following the date 
    on which the report is submitted of the total number of members of 
    the United States Armed Forces expected to be deployed in support 
    of Operation Inherent Resolve, delineated by Armed Force and 
    component (including whether regular, National Guard, or Reserve).
        (3) A description of the authorities and limitations on the 
    number of United States Armed Forces deployed in support of 
    Operation Inherent Resolve.
        (4) A description of military functions that are and are not 
    subject to the authorities and limitations described in paragraph 
    (3).
        (5) Any changes to the authorities and limitations described in 
    paragraph (3) and the rationale for such changes.
        (6) Any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Sunset.--The requirement to submit reports under this section 
shall terminate on the earlier of--
        (1) the date on which Operation Inherent Resolve terminates; or
        (2) the date that is five years after the date of the enactment 
    of this Act.
SEC. 1225. MATTERS RELATING TO SUPPORT FOR THE VETTED SYRIAN 
OPPOSITION.
    (a) Report on Potential Support Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report setting forth a 
    description of the military support the Secretary considers 
    necessary to provide to recipients of assistance under section 1209 
    of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
    Stat. 3541) upon their return to Syria to ensure their ability to 
    meet the intended purposes of such assistance.
        (2) Covered potential support.--The support the Secretary may 
    consider necessary to provide for purposes of the report required 
    by paragraph (1) is the following:
            (A) Logistical support.
            (B) Defensive supportive fire.
            (C) Intelligence.
            (D) Medical support.
            (E) Any other support the Secretary considers appropriate 
        for purposes of the report.
        (3) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) For each type of support the Secretary considers 
        necessary to provide as described in paragraph (1), a 
        description of the actions to be taken by the Secretary to 
        ensure that such support would not benefit any of the 
        following:
                (i) The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), the 
            Jabhat Al-Nusra Front, al-Qaeda, the Khorasan Group, or any 
            other violent extremist organization
                (ii) The Syrian Arab Army or any group or organization 
            supporting President Bashir Assad.
            (B) An estimate of the cost of providing such support.
    (b) Strategy for Syria.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
    coordination with the Secretary of State, submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a strategy for Syria.
        (2) Elements.--The strategy required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) A description of the means by which assistance provided 
        to appropriately vetted elements of the Syrian opposition and 
        other appropriately vetted Syrian groups and individuals will 
        achieve the purposes set forth in section 1209(a) of the Carl 
        Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
        Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015.
            (B) A description of the political and military objectives 
        and end states for Syria.
            (C) A description of means by which the assistance will 
        support the political and military objectives and end states 
        for Syria.
            (D) An explanation of the manner in which the military 
        campaign in Syria and Iraq is integrated.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In subsections 
(a) and (b), the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' has the 
meaning given that term in section 1209(e)(2) of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015.
    (d) Additional Matters for Quarterly Progress Reports on Assistance 
to the Vetted Opposition.--
        (1) Additional matters.--Subsection (d) of section 1209 of the 
    Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 is amended--
            (A) in paragraph (10), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (B) in paragraph (11) by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting a semicolon; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
        ``(12) a description of support, if any, provided to 
    appropriately vetted recipients pursuant to subsection (a) while 
    those forces are located in Syria, including--
            ``(A) logistics support;
            ``(B) defense supporting fire;
            ``(C) intelligence; and
            ``(D) medical support; and
        ``(13) a description of the number of appropriately vetted 
    recipients located in Syria, the approximate locations in which 
    they are operating, and the number of known casualties among such 
    recipients.''.
        (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall 
    take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall 
    apply with respect to quarterly reports submitted under subsection 
    (d) of section 1209 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 after that 
    date.
    (e) Information Accompanying Reprogramming Requests.--Subsection 
(f) of such section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``The Secretary of Defense'' and inserting the 
    following:
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Information accompanying reprogramming requests.--Each 
    request under paragraph (1) shall include the following:
            ``(A) The amount, type, and purpose of assistance to be 
        funded pursuant to such request.
            ``(B) The budget, implementation timeline with milestones, 
        and anticipated delivery schedule for such assistance.''.
SEC. 1226. SUPPORT TO THE GOVERNMENT OF JORDAN AND THE GOVERNMENT OF 
LEBANON FOR BORDER SECURITY OPERATIONS.
    (a) Authority to Provide Support.--
         (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
    concurrence of the Secretary of State, is authorized to provide 
    support on a reimbursement basis to the Government of Jordan and 
    the Government of Lebanon for purposes of supporting and enhancing 
    efforts of the armed forces of Jordan and the armed forces of 
    Lebanon to increase security and sustain increased security along 
    the border of Jordan and the border of Lebanon with Syria and Iraq, 
    as applicable.
        (2) Frequency.--Support may be provided under this subsection 
    on a quarterly basis.
    (b) Funds Available for Support.--The following amounts made be 
used to provide support under the authority of subsection (a):
        (1) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
    and available for reimbursement of certain coalition nations for 
    support provided to United States military operations pursuant to 
    section 1233 of the National Defense Authorization Act for fiscal 
    year 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 393).
        (2) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
    for the Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund pursuant to section 1534 
    of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for fiscal year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
    Stat. 3616).
    (c) Limitations.--
        (1) Limitation on amount.--The total amount of support provided 
    under the authority of subsection (a) may not exceed $150,000,000 
    for any country specified in subsection (a) in any fiscal year.
        (2) Support to the government of lebanon.--Support provided 
    under the authority of subsection (a) to the Government of Lebanon 
    may be used only for the armed forces of Lebanon, and may not be 
    used for or to reimburse Hezbollah or any forces other than the 
    armed forces of Lebanon.
        (3) Prohibition on contractual obligations.--The Secretary of 
    Defense may not enter into any contractual obligation to provide 
    support under the authority of subsection (a).
        (4) Determination required.--The Secretary of Defense may not 
    provide support to a country specified in subsection (a) if the 
    Secretary determines that the government of such country fails to 
    increase security and sustain increased security along the border 
    of Jordan and the border of Lebanon with Syria and Iraq, as 
    applicable.
    (d) Notice Before Exercise.--Not later than 15 days before 
providing support under the authority of subsection (a), the Secretary 
of Defense shall submit to the specified congressional committees a 
report setting forth a full description of the support to be provided, 
including the amount of support to be provided, and the timeline for 
the provision of such support.
    (e) Specified Congressional Committees.--In the section, the term 
``specified congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
    (f) Expiration of Authority.--No support may be provided under the 
authority of subsection (a) after December 31, 2018.
SEC. 1227. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE SECURITY AND PROTECTION OF IRANIAN 
DISSIDENTS LIVING IN CAMP LIBERTY, IRAQ.
    It is the sense of Congress that the United States should--
        (1) take prompt and appropriate steps in accordance with 
    international agreements to promote the physical security and 
    protection of residents of Camp Liberty, Iraq;
        (2) urge the Government of Iraq to uphold its commitments to 
    the United States to ensure the safety and well-being of those 
    living in Camp Liberty;
        (3) urge the Government of Iraq to ensure continued and 
    reliable access to food, clean water, medical assistance, 
    electricity and other energy needs, and any other equipment and 
    supplies necessary to sustain the residents during periods of 
    attack or siege by external forces;
        (4) oppose the extradition of Camp Liberty residents to Iran;
        (5) assist the international community in implementing a plan 
    to provide for the safe, secure, and permanent relocation of Camp 
    Liberty residents, including a detailed outline of steps that would 
    need to be taken by recipient countries, the United States, the 
    Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), and the Camp 
    residents to relocate residents to other countries;
        (6) encourage continued close cooperation between the residents 
    of Camp Liberty and the authorities in the relocation process; and
        (7) assist the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees in 
    expediting the ongoing resettlement of all residents of Camp 
    Liberty to safe locations outside Iraq.

                  Subtitle D--Matters Relating to Iran

SEC. 1231. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF ANNUAL REPORT ON THE MILITARY 
POWER OF IRAN.
    (a) Element on Cyber Capabilities in Description of Strategy.--
Paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of section 1245 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2542) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(D) Iranian strategy regarding offensive cyber 
        capabilities and defensive cyber capabilities.''.
    (b) Elements on Cyber Capabilities in Assessments of Unconventional 
Forces.--Paragraph (3) of such subsection, as amended by section 
1232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 
(Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 920), is further amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``and'' at the end;
        (2) in subparagraph (E), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting a semicolon; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:
            ``(F) offensive cyber capabilities and defensive cyber 
        capabilities; and
            ``(G) Iranian ability to manipulate the information 
        environment both domestically and against the interests of the 
        United States and its allies.''.
    (c) Matters to Be Included.--Such subsection is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
        ``(5) An assessment of transfers to Iran of military equipment, 
    technology, and training from non-Iranian sources.''.
    (d) Termination.--Subsection (d) of such section 1245, as amended 
by section 1277 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3592), is further amended by striking ``December 31, 
2016'' and inserting ``December 31, 2025''.
    (e) Effective Date.--The amendments made by this section shall take 
effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply with 
respect to reports required to be submitted under section 1245 of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010, as so amended, 
after that date.
SEC. 1232. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE GOVERNMENT OF IRAN'S MALIGN 
ACTIVITIES.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) Iran continues to conduct a range of malign military and 
    intelligence activities in the region and around the globe which 
    constitute a significant threat to regional stability and the 
    national security interests of the United States and our allies and 
    partners;
        (2) Iran continues funding its conventional and unconventional 
    military development, including its ballistic missile development 
    programs, and its acquisition of destabilizing conventional 
    weapons, which requires the United States to continue to support 
    and build the collective capacity of our allies and partners in the 
    region to address threats;
        (3) the sale of advanced weaponry, including advance air 
    defense systems, to the Government of Iran increases the risk of 
    further destabilizing the region;
        (4) Iran's malign activities, continued state sponsorship of 
    terrorism, and the violation of the human rights of the Iranian 
    people justify continued pressure by the United States; and
        (5) the United States should continue to enhance the region's 
    security architecture, build our partners' capacity to respond to 
    external aggression, increase the interoperability of our 
    respective military forces, and continue to better integrate their 
    advanced capabilities.
SEC. 1233. REPORT ON MILITARY-TO-MILITARY ENGAGEMENTS WITH IRAN.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter for 2 years, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
committees a report on--
        (1) any military-to-military engagements conducted by the Armed 
    Forces or Department of Defense civilians with representatives of 
    the military or paramilitary forces (including the IRGC Quds Force) 
    of the Islamic Republic of Iran during the one-year period ending 
    on the date of the submission of the report; and
        (2) any policy changes to such military-to-military engagements 
    with the armed forces of Iran.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees.--In this section, the 
term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1234. SECURITY GUARANTEES TO COUNTRIES IN THE MIDDLE EAST.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
that summarizes any agreement, in effect as of the date that is 15 days 
before the date of the submittal of the report, that provides security 
commitments by the United States to any country in the Middle East, 
including the member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council.
    (b) Analysis.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
provide the Secretary of Defense with an analysis of the United States 
military force structure and posture required to meet any current 
agreement that provides security commitments in the Middle East, 
including to member countries of the Gulf Cooperation Council. The 
Secretary shall include such analysis, without revision, in the report 
required by subsection (a), together with such additional views as the 
Secretary considers appropriate.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1235. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed as authorizing the use of 
force against Iran.

         Subtitle E--Matters Relating to the Russian Federation

SEC. 1241. NOTIFICATIONS RELATING TO TESTING, PRODUCTION, DEPLOYMENT, 
AND SALE OR TRANSFER TO OTHER STATES OR NON-STATE ACTORS OF THE CLUB-K 
CRUISE MISSILE SYSTEM BY THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Notifications.--Not later than seven days after the Secretary 
determines that there is reasonable grounds to believe that the Russian 
Federation has tested, initially deployed, or sold or transferred to 
another state or non-state actor the Club-K cruise missile system, the 
Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
notification of such determination.
    (b) Department of Defense Planning.--The Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff shall include in military planning options for 
responding to the military threat posed by the Russian Federation 
testing, deployment, or sale or transfer to other states or non-state 
actors the Club-K cruise missile system.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term ``appropriate 
    committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Club-k cruise missile system.--The term ``Club-K cruise 
    missile system'' means the Club-K cruise missile ``container 
    launcher'' weapons system.
    (d) Sunset.--The provisions of this section shall not be in effect 
on and after the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
SEC. 1242. NOTIFICATIONS OF DEPLOYMENT OF NUCLEAR WEAPONS BY RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION TO TERRITORY OF UKRAINIAN REPUBLIC OR RUSSIAN TERRITORY OF 
KALININGRAD.
    (a) Notifications.--
        (1) Upon deployment.--Not later than seven days after the 
    Secretary of Defense determines that there is reasonable grounds to 
    believe that the Russian Federation has deployed covered weapons 
    systems onto the territory of the Ukranian Republic, or has 
    deployed covered weapons systems onto the Russian territory of 
    Kaliningrad, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a notification of such determination.
        (2) Form.--A notification required under paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex 
    if necessary.
    (b) Department of Defense Planning.--The Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff shall include in military planning options for 
responding to the military threat posed by the Russian Federation 
deploying covered weapons systems onto the territory of the Ukranian 
Republic, or deploying covered weapons system onto the Russian 
territory of Kaliningrad, including opportunities for allied 
cooperation in developing such responses based on consultation with 
such allies.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and 
        the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) Covered weapons systems.--The term ``covered weapons 
    systems'' means weapons systems that can perform both conventional 
    and nuclear missions, nuclear weapon delivery systems, and nuclear 
    warheads.
    (d) Sunset.--The provisions of this section shall not be in effect 
on and after the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act.
SEC. 1243. MEASURES IN RESPONSE TO NON-COMPLIANCE BY THE RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION WITH ITS OBLIGATIONS UNDER THE INF TREATY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the development and deployment of a nuclear ground-launched 
    cruise missile by the Russian Federation is in violation of the INF 
    Treaty, and the Russian Federation should return to compliance with 
    the INF Treaty;
        (2) the increasing role for nuclear weapons in the Russian 
    Federation's military strategy, and the continuing violation of the 
    INF Treaty threatens the viability of the INF Treaty;
        (3) efforts taken by the President to compel the Russian 
    Federation to return to compliance with the INF Treaty, including 
    by developing military and nonmilitary options, must be persistent 
    and are in the best interests of the United States, but cannot be 
    open-ended;
        (4) not only should the Russian Federation end its cheating 
    with respect to the INF Treaty, but also its illegal occupation of 
    the sovereign territory of another nation, its plans for stationing 
    nuclear weapons on that nation's territory, and its cheating and 
    violation of as many as eight of its 12 arms control obligations 
    and agreements; and
        (5) there are several United States military requirements that 
    would be addressed by the development and deployment of systems 
    currently prohibited by the INF Treaty.
    (b) Notifications of Russian Federation Violations of INF Treaty.--
        (1) In general.--The President shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a notification of--
            (A) whether the Russian Federation has flight-tested, 
        deployed, or possesses a military system that has achieved an 
        initial operating capability that is either a ground-launched 
        ballistic missile or ground-launched cruise missile with a 
        flight-tested range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers; and
            (B) whether the Russian Federation has begun steps to 
        return to full compliance with the INF Treaty, including by 
        agreeing to inspections and verification measures necessary to 
        achieve high confidence that any missile described in 
        subparagraph (A) will be eliminated, as required by the INF 
        Treaty upon its entry into force.
        (2) Deadline.--The notification required under paragraph (1) 
    shall be submitted not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act and not later than 30 days after the date on 
    which the Russian Federation meets any of the conditions described 
    in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1).
        (3) Form.--The notification required under paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
    (c) Notification of Coordination With Allies Regarding INF 
Treaty.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment, and every 120-day period thereafter for a period of 5 
    years, the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff shall jointly, in coordination with the Secretary 
    of State and the Director of National Intelligence, submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a notification on the status 
    and content of updates provided to the North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization (NATO) and allies of the United States in East Asia, 
    on the Russian Federation's flight testing, operating capability 
    and deployment of ground launched ballistic missiles or ground-
    launched cruise missiles with a flight-tested range of between 500 
    and 5,500 kilometers, including updates on the status and a 
    description of efforts with such allies to develop collective 
    responses (including economic and military responses) to arms 
    control violations of the Russian Federation (including violations 
    of the INF Treaty).
        (2) Form.--The notification required under paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
    (d) Military Response Options to Russian Federation Violation of 
INF Treaty.--
        (1) In general.--If, as of the date of the enactment of this 
    Act, the Russian Federation has not begun taking measures to return 
    to full compliance with the INF Treaty, including by agreeing to 
    verification measures necessary to achieve high confidence that any 
    ground-launched ballistic missile or ground-launched cruise missile 
    with a flight-tested range of between 500 and 5,500 kilometers will 
    be eliminated, the Secretary of Defense shall, not later than 120 
    days after that date, submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a plan for the development of the following military 
    capabilities:
            (A) Counterforce capabilities to prevent intermediate-range 
        ground-launched ballistic missile and cruise missile attacks, 
        whether or not such capabilities are in compliance with the INF 
        Treaty and including capabilities that may be acquired from 
        allies of the United States.
            (B) Countervailing strike capabilities to enhance the 
        forces of the United States or allies of the United States, 
        whether or not such capabilities are in compliance with the INF 
        Treaty and including capabilities that may be acquired from 
        allies of the United States.
            (C) Active defenses to defend against intermediate-range 
        ground-launched cruise missile attacks.
        (2) Cost and schedule estimates.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall include in the plan required by paragraph (1), with respect 
    to each military capability described in subparagraphs (A), (B), 
    and (C) of that paragraph, an estimate of cost and the approximate 
    time for achieving a Milestone A decision, if such a decision is 
    required.
        (3) Availability of funds.--Using amounts authorized to be 
    appropriated for fiscal year 2016 by section 201 and available for 
    research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, or 
    otherwise made available, the Secretary of Defense shall carry out 
    the development of capabilities pursuant to paragraph (1) that are 
    recommended by the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff to meet 
    military requirements and current capability gaps with respect to 
    missiles described in paragraph (1). In making such a 
    recommendation, the Chairman shall give priority to such 
    capabilities that the Chairman determines could be tested and 
    fielded most expediently, with the most priority given to 
    capabilities that the Chairman determines could be fielded in two 
    years.
        (4) Other response options.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    also include in the plan required by paragraph (1) such other 
    options as the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of State 
    consider useful to encourage the Russian Federation to return to 
    full compliance with the INF Treaty or necessary to respond to the 
    failure of the Russian Federation to return to full compliance with 
    the INF Treaty.
        (5) Reports on development.--
            (A) In general.--During each 180-day period beginning on 
        the date on which funds are first obligated to develop 
        capabilities under paragraph (1), the Chairman of the Joint 
        Chiefs of Staff shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
        committees a report on such capabilities, including the costs 
        of development (and estimated total costs of each system if 
        pursued to deployment) and the time for development flight 
        testing and deployment.
            (B) Sunset.--The provisions of subparagraph (A) shall not 
        be in effect after the date on which the President certifies to 
        the appropriate congressional committees that the INF Treaty is 
        no longer in force or the Russian Federation has fully returned 
        to compliance with its obligations under the INF Treaty.
        (6) Report on deployment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, 
    in coordination with the Secretary of State, submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees a report on the following:
            (A) Potential deployment locations of the military 
        capabilities described in paragraph (1) in East Asia and 
        Eastern Europe, including any potential basing agreements that 
        may be required to facilitate such deployments.
            (B) Any required safety and security measures, estimates of 
        potential costs of deployments described in subparagraph (A) 
        and an assessment of whether or not such deployments in Eastern 
        Europe may require a decision of the North Atlantic Council.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, the Committee on Appropriations, and the 
        Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
        Representatives.
        (2) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
    Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
    Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range 
    and Shorter-Range Missiles, commonly referred to as the 
    Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed at 
    Washington, December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
SEC. 1244. MODIFICATION OF NOTIFICATION AND ASSESSMENT OF PROPOSAL TO 
MODIFY OR INTRODUCE NEW AIRCRAFT OR SENSORS FOR FLIGHT BY THE RUSSIAN 
FEDERATION UNDER THE OPEN SKIES TREATY.
    (a) In General.--Section 1242(b) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3563) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``30 days'' and inserting 
    ``90 days''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2)--
            (A) in the paragraph caption, by striking ``element'' and 
        inserting ``elements''; and
            (B) by adding at the end the following new sentence: ``The 
        assessment shall also include an assessment of the proposal by 
        the commander of each combatant command potentially affected by 
        the proposal, including an assessment of the potential effects 
        of the proposal on operations and any potential vulnerabilities 
        raised by the proposal.''.
    (b) Limitation on Availability of Funds.--Not more than 75 percent 
of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, development, test, 
and evaluation, Air Force, for arms control implementation (PE 
0305145F) may be obligated or expended until the Secretary of Defense, 
in coordination with the Secretary of State, submits to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the following:
        (1) A description of any meetings of the Open Skies 
    Consultative Commission during the prior year.
        (2) A description of any agreements entered into during such 
    meetings of the Open Skies Consultative Commission.
        (3) A description of any future year proposals for 
    modifications to the aircraft or sensors of any State Party to the 
    Open Skies Treaty that will be subject to the Open Skies Treaty.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) The term ``Open Skies Treaty'' means the Treaty on Open 
    Skies, done at Helsinki March 24, 1992, and entered into force 
    January 1, 2002.
SEC. 1245. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS RELATING TO SOVEREIGNTY 
OF THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION OVER CRIMEA.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement any 
activity that recognizes the sovereignty of the Russian Federation over 
Crimea.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the restriction on 
the obligation or expenditure of funds required by subsection (a) if 
the Secretary--
        (1) determines that to do so is in the national interest of the 
    United States; and
        (2) submits to the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate 
    and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives 
    a notification of the waiver at the time the waiver is invoked.
SEC. 1246. LIMITATION ON MILITARY COOPERATION BETWEEN THE UNITED STATES 
AND THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense may be used for any 
bilateral military-to-military cooperation between the Governments of 
the United States and the Russian Federation until the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that--
        (1) the Russian Federation has ceased its occupation of 
    Ukrainian territory and its aggressive activities that threaten the 
    sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine and members of the 
    North Atlantic Treaty Organization; and
        (2) the Russian Federation is abiding by the terms of and 
    taking steps in support of the Minsk Protocols regarding a 
    ceasefire in eastern Ukraine.
    (b) Nonapplicability.--The limitation in subsection (a) shall not 
apply to--
        (1) any activities necessary to ensure the compliance of the 
    United States with its obligations or the exercise of rights of the 
    United States under any bilateral or multilateral arms control or 
    nonproliferation agreement or any other treaty obligation of the 
    United States; and
        (2) any activities required to provide logistical or other 
    support to the conduct of United States or North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization military operations in Afghanistan or the withdrawal 
    from Afghanistan.
    (c) Waiver.--The Secretary of Defense may waive the limitation in 
subsection (a) if the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the 
Secretary of State--
        (1) determines that the waiver is in the national security 
    interest of the United States; and
        (2) submits to the appropriate congressional committees--
            (A) a notification that the waiver is in the national 
        security interest of the United States and a description of the 
        national security interest covered by the waiver; and
            (B) a report explaining why the Secretary of Defense cannot 
        make the certification under subsection (a).
    (d) Exception for Certain Military Bases.--The certification 
requirement specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) shall not 
apply to military bases of the Russian Federation in Ukraine's Crimean 
peninsula operating in accordance with its 1997 agreement on the Status 
and Conditions of the Black Sea Fleet Stationing on the Territory of 
Ukraine.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1247. REPORT ON IMPLEMENTATION OF THE NEW START TREATY.
    (a) Report.--
        (1) In general.--During each year described in paragraph (2), 
    the President shall transmit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a report explaining the reasons that the continued 
    implementation of the New START Treaty is in the national security 
    interests of the United States.
        (2) Year described.--A year described in this paragraph is a 
    year in which the President implements the New START Treaty and 
    determines that any of the following circumstances apply:
            (A) The Russian Federation illegally occupies Ukrainian 
        territory.
            (B) The Russian Federation is not respecting the 
        sovereignty of all Ukrainian territory.
            (C) The Russian Federation is not in full compliance with 
        the INF treaty.
            (D) The Russian Federation is not in compliance with the 
        CFE Treaty and has not lifted its suspension of Russian 
        observance of its treaty obligations.
            (E) The Russian Federation is not reducing its deployed 
        strategic delivery vehicles.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
        (2) CFE treaty.--The term ``CFE Treaty'' means the Treaty on 
    Conventional Armed Forces in Europe, signed at Paris November 19, 
    1990, and entered into force July 17, 1992.
        (3) INF treaty.--The term ``INF Treaty'' means the Treaty 
    Between the United States of America and the Union of Soviet 
    Socialist Republics on the Elimination of Their Intermediate-Range 
    and Shorter-Range Missiles, commonly referred to as the 
    Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces (INF) Treaty, signed at 
    Washington December 8, 1987, and entered into force June 1, 1988.
        (4) New start treaty.--The term ``New START Treaty'' means the 
    Treaty between the United States of America and the Russian 
    Federation on Measures for the Further Reduction and Limitation of 
    Strategic Offensive Arms, signed on April 8, 2010, and entered into 
    force on February 5, 2011.
SEC. 1248. ADDITIONAL MATTERS IN ANNUAL REPORT ON MILITARY AND SECURITY 
DEVELOPMENTS INVOLVING THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Additional Matters.--Subsection (b) of section 1245 of the Carl 
Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3566) is amended--
        (1) by redesignating paragraphs (4) through (15) as paragraphs 
    (7) through (18), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following new 
    paragraphs (4), (5), and (6):
        ``(4) An assessment of the force structure and capabilities of 
    Russian military forces stationed in each of the Arctic, 
    Kaliningrad, and Crimea, including a description of any changes to 
    such force structure or capabilities during the one-year period 
    ending on the date of such report and with a particular emphasis on 
    the anti-access and area denial capabilities of such forces.
        ``(5) An assessment of Russian military strategy and objectives 
    for the Arctic region.
        ``(6) A description of the status of testing, production, 
    deployment, and sale or transfer to other states or non-state 
    actors of the Club-K cruise missile system by the Russian 
    Federation.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsection (a) shall 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act, and shall apply 
with respect to reports submitted under section 1245 of the Carl Levin 
and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2015 after that date.
SEC. 1249. REPORT ON ALTERNATIVE CAPABILITIES TO PROCURE AND SUSTAIN 
NONSTANDARD ROTARY WING AIRCRAFT HISTORICALLY PROCURED THROUGH 
ROSOBORONEXPORT.
    (a) Report on Assessment of Alternative Capabilities.--Not later 
than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall, 
in consultation with the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, submit 
to the congressional defense committees a report setting forth an 
assessment, obtained by the Under Secretary for purposes of the report, 
of the feasibility and advisability of using alternative industrial 
base capabilities to procure and sustain, with parts and service, 
nonstandard rotary wing aircraft historically acquired through 
Rosoboronexport, or nonstandard rotary wing aircraft that are in whole 
or in part reliant upon Rosoboronexport for continued sustainment, in 
order to benefit United States national security interests.
    (b) Independent Assessment.--The assessment obtained for purposes 
of subsection (a) shall be conducted by a federally funded research and 
development center (FFRDC), or another appropriate independent entity 
with expertise in the procurement and sustainment of complex weapon 
systems, selected by the Under Secretary for purposes of the 
assessment.
    (c) Elements.--The assessment obtained for purposes of subsection 
(a) shall include the following:
        (1) An identification and assessment of international 
    industrial base capabilities, other than Rosoboronexport, to 
    provide one or more of the following:
            (A) Means of procuring nonstandard rotary wing aircraft 
        historically procured through Rosoboronexport.
            (B) Reliable and timely supply of required and appropriate 
        parts, spares, and consumables of such aircraft.
            (C) Certifiable maintenance of such aircraft, including 
        major periodic overhauls, damage repair, and modifications.
            (D) Access to required reference data on such aircraft, 
        including technical manuals and service bulletins.
            (E) Credible certification of airworthiness of such 
        aircraft through physical inspection, notwithstanding any 
        current administrative requirements to the contrary.
        (2) An assessment (including an assessment of associated costs 
    and risks) of alterations to administrative processes of the United 
    States Government that may be required to procure any of the 
    capabilities specified in paragraph (1), including waivers to 
    Department of Defense or Department of State requirements 
    applicable to foreign military sales or alterations to procedures 
    for approval of airworthiness certificates.
        (3) An assessment of the potential economic impact to 
    Rosoboronexport of procuring nonstandard rotary wing aircraft 
    described in paragraph (1)(A) through entities other than 
    Rosoboronexport.
        (4) An assessment of the risks and benefits of using the 
    entities identified pursuant to paragraph (1)(A) to procure 
    aircraft described in that paragraph.
        (5) Such other matters as the Under Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (d) Use of Previous Studies.--The entity conducting the assessment 
for purposes of subsection (a) may use and incorporate information from 
previous studies on matters appropriate to the assessment.
    (e) Form of Report.--The report under subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1250. UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE INITIATIVE.
    (a) Authority To Provide Assistance.--Of the amounts authorized to 
be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 by title XV and available for 
overseas contingency operations as specified in the funding tables in 
division D, $300,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary of 
Defense, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to provide 
appropriate security assistance and intelligence support, including 
training, equipment, and logistics support, supplies and services, to 
military and other security forces of the Government of Ukraine for the 
purposes as follows:
        (1) To enhance the capabilities of the military and other 
    security forces of the Government of Ukraine to defend against 
    further aggression.
        (2) To assist Ukraine in developing the combat capability to 
    defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity.
        (3) To support the Government of Ukraine in defending itself 
    against actions by Russia and Russian-backed separatists that 
    violate the ceasefire agreements of September 4, 2014, and February 
    11, 2015.
    (b) Appropriate Security Assistance and Intelligence Support.--For 
purposes of subsection (a), appropriate security assistance and 
intelligence support includes the following:
        (1) Real time or near real time actionable intelligence, 
    including by lease of such capabilities from United States 
    commercial entities.
        (2) Lethal assistance such as anti-armor weapon systems, 
    mortars, crew-served weapons and ammunition, grenade launchers and 
    ammunition, and small arms and ammunition.
        (3) Counter-artillery radars, including medium-range and long-
    range counter-artillery radars that can detect and locate long-
    range artillery.
        (4) Unmanned aerial tactical surveillance systems.
        (5) Cyber capabilities.
        (6) Counter-electronic warfare capabilities such as secure 
    communications equipment and other electronic protection systems.
        (7) Other electronic warfare capabilities.
        (8) Training required to maintain and employ systems and 
    capabilities described in paragraphs (1) through (7).
        (9) Training for critical combat operations such as planning, 
    command and control, small unit tactics, counter-artillery tactics, 
    logistics, countering improvised explosive devices, battle-field 
    first aid, post-combat treatment, and medical evacuation.
    (c) Availability of Funds.--
        (1) Training.--Up to 20 percent of the amount available 
    pursuant to subsection (a) may be used to support training pursuant 
    to section 1207 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (22 U.S.C. 2151 note), relating to the Global 
    Security Contingency Fund.
        (2) Defensive lethal assistance.--Subject to paragraph (3), of 
    the amount available pursuant to subsection (a), $50,000,000 shall 
    be available only for lethal assistance described in paragraphs (2) 
    and (3) of subsection (b).
        (3) Other purposes.--The amount described in paragraph (2) 
    shall be available for purposes other than lethal assistance 
    referred to in that paragraph commencing on the date that is six 
    months after the date of the enactment of this Act if the Secretary 
    of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, 
    certifies to the congressional defense committees that the use of 
    such amount for purposes of such lethal assistance is not in the 
    national security interests of the United States. The purposes for 
    which the amount may be used pursuant to this paragraph include the 
    following:
            (A) Assistance or support to national-level security forces 
        of other Partnership for Peace nations that the Secretary of 
        Defense determines to be appropriate to assist in preserving 
        their sovereignty and territorial integrity against Russian 
        aggression.
            (B) Exercises and training support of national-level 
        security forces of Partnership for Peace nations or the 
        Government of Ukraine that the Secretary of Defense determines 
        to be appropriate to assist in preserving their sovereignty and 
        territorial integrity against Russian aggression.
    (d) United States Inventory and Other Sources.--
        (1) In general.--In addition to any assistance provided 
    pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense is authorized, 
    with the concurrence of the Secretary of State, to make available 
    to the Government of Ukraine weapons and other defense articles, 
    from the United States inventory and other sources, and defense 
    services, in such quantity as the Secretary of Defense determines 
    to be appropriate to achieve the purposes specified in subsection 
    (a).
        (2) Replacement.--Amounts for the replacement of any items 
    provided to the Government of Ukraine pursuant to paragraph (1) 
    shall be derived from the amount available pursuant to subsection 
    (a) or amounts authorized to be appropriated for the Department of 
    Defense for overseas contingency operations for weapons 
    procurement.
    (e) Construction of Authorization.--Nothing in this section shall 
be construed to constitute a specific statutory authorization for the 
introduction of United States Armed Forces into hostilities or into 
situations wherein hostilities are clearly indicated by the 
circumstances.
    (f) Termination of Authority.--Assistance may not be provided under 
the authority in this section after December 31, 2017.
    (g) Extension of Reports on Military Assistance to Ukraine.--
Section 1275(e) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 
113-291; 128 Stat. 3592) is amended by striking ``January 31, 2017'' 
and inserting ``December 31, 2017''.
SEC. 1251. TRAINING FOR EASTERN EUROPEAN NATIONAL MILITARY FORCES IN 
THE COURSE OF MULTILATERAL EXERCISES.
    (a) Authority.--The Secretary of Defense may provide the training 
specified in subsection (b), and pay the incremental expenses incurred 
by a country as the direct result of participation in such training, 
for the national military forces provided for under subsection (c).
    (b) Types of Training.--The training provided to the national 
military forces of a country under subsection (a) shall be limited to 
training that is--
        (1) provided in the course of the conduct of a multilateral 
    exercise in which the United States Armed Forces are a participant;
        (2) comparable to or complimentary of the types of training the 
    United States Armed Forces receive in the course of such 
    multilateral exercise; and
        (3) for any purpose as follows:
            (A) To enhance and increase the interoperability of the 
        military forces to be trained to increase their ability to 
        participate in coalition efforts led by the United States or 
        the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO).
            (B) To increase the capacity of such military forces to 
        respond to external threats.
            (C) To increase the capacity of such military forces to 
        respond to hybrid warfare.
            (D) To increase the capacity of such military forces to 
        respond to calls for collective action within the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization.
    (c) Eligible Countries.--
        (1) In general.--Training may be provided under subsection (a) 
    to the national military forces of the countries determined by the 
    Secretary of Defense, with the concurrence of the Secretary of 
    State, to be appropriate recipients of such training from among the 
    countries as follows:
            (A) Countries that are a signatory to the Partnership for 
        Peace Framework Documents, but not a member of the North 
        Atlantic Treaty Organization.
            (B) Countries that became a member of the North Atlantic 
        Treaty Organization after January 1, 1999.
        (2) Eligible countries.--Before providing training under 
    subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall, in coordination 
    with the Secretary of State, submit to the Committees on Armed 
    Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a list of 
    the countries determined pursuant to paragraph (1) to be eligible 
    for the provision of training under subsection (a).
    (d) Funding of Incremental Expenses.--
        (1) Annual funding.--Of the amounts specified in paragraph (2) 
    for a fiscal year, up to a total of $28,000,000 may be used to pay 
    incremental expenses under subsection (a) in that fiscal year.
        (2) Amounts.--The amounts specified in this paragraph are as 
    follows:
            (A) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year 
        for operation and maintenance, Army, and available for the 
        Combatant Commands Direct Support Program for that fiscal year.
            (B) Amounts authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year 
        for operation and maintenance, Defense-wide, and available for 
        the Wales Initiative Fund for that fiscal year.
        (3) Availability of funds for activities across fiscal years.--
    Amounts available in a fiscal year pursuant to this subsection may 
    be used for incremental expenses of training that begins in that 
    fiscal year and ends in the next fiscal year.
    (e) Briefing to Congress on Use of Authority.--Not later that 90 
days after the end of each fiscal year in which the authority in 
subsection (a) is used, the Secretary shall brief the Committees on 
Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives on the 
use of the authority during such fiscal year, including each country 
with which training under the authority was conducted and the types of 
training provided.
    (f) Construction of Authority.--The authority provided in 
subsection (a) is in addition to any other authority provided by law 
authorizing the provision of training for the national military forces 
of a foreign country, including section 2282 of title 10, United States 
Code.
    (g) Incremental Expenses Defined.--In this section, the term 
``incremental expenses'' means the reasonable and proper cost of the 
goods and services that are consumed by a country as a direct result of 
that country's participation in training under the authority of this 
section, including rations, fuel, training ammunition, and 
transportation. Such term does not include pay, allowances, and other 
normal costs of a country's personnel.
    (h) Termination of Authority.--The authority under this section 
shall terminate on September 30, 2017. Any activity under this section 
initiated before that date may be completed, but only using funds 
available for fiscal years 2016 through 2017.

        Subtitle F--Matters Relating to the Asia-Pacific Region

SEC. 1261. STRATEGY TO PROMOTE UNITED STATES INTERESTS IN THE INDO-
ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.
    (a) Strategy.--Not later than March 1, 2017, the President shall 
develop an overall strategy to promote United States interests in the 
Indo-Asia-Pacific region. Such strategy shall be informed by, but not 
limited to, the following:
        (1) The national security strategy of the United States for 
    2015 set forth in the national security strategy report required 
    under section 108(a)(3) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 
    U.S.C. 5043(a)(3)), as such strategy relates to United States 
    interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
        (2) The 2014 Quadrennial Defense Review, as it relates to 
    United States interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific region.
        (3) The 2015 Quadrennial Diplomacy and Development Review, as 
    it relates to United States interests in the Indo-Asia-Pacific 
    region.
        (4) The strategy to prioritize United States defense interests 
    in the Asia-Pacific region as contained in the report required by 
    section 1251(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291).
        (5) The integrated, multi-year planning and budget strategy for 
    a rebalancing of United States policy in Asia submitted to Congress 
    pursuant to section 7043(a) of the Department of State, Foreign 
    Operations, and Related Programs Appropriations Act, 2014 (division 
    K of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2014 (Public Law 113-
    76)).
    (b) Presidential Policy Directive.--The President shall issue a 
Presidential Policy Directive to appropriate departments and agencies 
of the United States Government that contains the strategy developed 
under subsection (a) and includes implementing guidance to such 
departments and agencies.
    (c) Relation to Agency Priority Goals and Annual Budget.--
        (1) Agency priority goals.--In identifying agency priority 
    goals under section 1120(b) of title 31, United States Code, for 
    each appropriate department and agency of the United States 
    Government, the head of such department or agency, or as otherwise 
    determined by the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, 
    shall take into consideration the strategy developed under 
    subsection (a) and the Presidential Policy Directive issued under 
    subsection (b).
        (2) Annual budget.--The President, acting through the Director 
    of the Office of Management and Budget, shall ensure that the 
    annual budget submitted to Congress under section 1105 of title 31, 
    United States Code, includes a separate section that clearly 
    highlights programs and projects that are being funded in the 
    annual budget that relate to the strategy developed under 
    subsection (a) and the Presidential Policy Directive issued under 
    subsection (b).
SEC. 1262. REQUIREMENT TO SUBMIT DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE POLICY REGARDING 
FOREIGN DISCLOSURE OR TECHNOLOGY RELEASE OF AEGIS ASHORE CAPABILITY TO 
JAPAN.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that a decision 
by the Government of Japan to purchase Aegis Ashore for its self-
defense, given that it already possesses sea-based Aegis weapons 
system-equipped naval vessels, could create a significant opportunity 
for promoting interoperability and integration of air- and missile 
defense capability, could provide for force multiplication benefits, 
and could potentially alleviate force posture requirements on multi-
mission assets.
    (b) Requirement to Submit Policy.--Not later than 30 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a copy of the 
Department of Defense policy regarding foreign disclosure or technology 
release of Aegis Ashore capability to Japan.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1263. SOUTH CHINA SEA INITIATIVE.
    (a) Assistance and Training.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized, with 
    the concurrence of the Secretary of State, for the purpose of 
    increasing maritime security and maritime domain awareness of 
    foreign countries along the South China Sea--
            (A) to provide assistance to national military or other 
        security forces of such countries that have among their 
        functional responsibilities maritime security missions; and
            (B) to provide training to ministry, agency, and 
        headquarters level organizations for such forces.
        (2) Designation of assistance and training.--The provision of 
    assistance and training under this section may be referred to as 
    the ``South China Sea Initiative''.
    (b) Recipient Countries.--The foreign countries that may be 
provided assistance and training under subsection (a) are the 
following:
        (1) Indonesia.
        (2) Malaysia,
        (3) The Philippines.
        (4) Thailand.
        (5) Vietnam.
    (c) Types of Assistance and Training.--
        (1) Authorized elements of assistance.--Assistance provided 
    under subsection (a)(1)(A) may include the provision of equipment, 
    supplies, training, and small-scale military construction.
        (2) Required elements of assistance and training.--Assistance 
    and training provided under subsection (a) shall include elements 
    that promote the following:
            (A) Observance of and respect for human rights and 
        fundamental freedoms.
            (B) Respect for legitimate civilian authority within the 
        country to which the assistance is provided.
    (d) Priorities for Assistance and Training.--In developing programs 
for assistance or training to be provided under subsection (a), the 
Secretary of Defense shall accord a priority to assistance, training, 
or both that will enhance the maritime capabilities of the recipient 
foreign country, or a regional organization of which the recipient 
country is a member, to respond to emerging threats to maritime 
security.
    (e) Incremental Expenses of Personnel of Certain Other Countries 
for Training.--
        (1) Authority for payment.--If the Secretary of Defense 
    determines that the payment of incremental expenses in connection 
    with training described in subsection (a)(1)(B) will facilitate the 
    participation in such training of organization personnel of foreign 
    countries specified in paragraph (2), the Secretary may use amounts 
    available under subsection (f) for assistance and training under 
    subsection (a) for the payment of such incremental expenses.
        (2) Covered countries.--The foreign countries specified in this 
    paragraph are the following:
            (A) Brunei.
            (B) Singapore.
            (C) Taiwan.
    (f) Availability of Funds.--
        (1) In general.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
    for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense, $50,000,000 may 
    be available for the provision of assistance and training under 
    subsection (a).
        (2) Notice on source of funds.--If the Secretary of Defense 
    uses funds available to the Department pursuant to paragraph (1) to 
    provide assistance and training under subsection (a) during a 
    fiscal half-year of fiscal year 2016, not later than 30 days after 
    the end of such fiscal half-year, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a notice on the account or 
    accounts providing such funds.
    (g) Notice to Congress on Assistance and Training.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 15 days before exercising the 
    authority under subsection (a) or (e) with respect to a recipient 
    foreign country, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    appropriate committees of Congress a notification containing the 
    following:
            (A) The recipient foreign country.
            (B) A detailed justification of the program for the 
        provision of the assistance or training concerned, and its 
        relationship to United States security interests.
            (C) The budget for the program, including a timetable of 
        planned expenditures of funds to implement the program, an 
        implementation timeline for the program with milestones 
        (including anticipated delivery schedules for any assistance 
        under the program), the military department or component 
        responsible for management of the program, and the anticipated 
        completion date for the program.
            (D) A description of the arrangements, if any, to support 
        host nation sustainment of any capability developed pursuant to 
        the program, and the source of funds to support sustainment 
        efforts and performance outcomes to be achieved under the 
        program beyond its completion date, if applicable.
            (E) A description of the program objectives and an 
        assessment framework to be used to develop capability and 
        performance metrics associated with operational outcomes for 
        the recipient force.
            (F) Such other matters as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
        (2) Appropriate committees of congress defined.--In this 
    subsection, the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the 
        House of Representatives.
    (h) Expiration.--Assistance and training may not be provided under 
this section after September 30, 2020.

                       Subtitle G--Other Matters

SEC. 1271. TWO-YEAR EXTENSION AND MODIFICATION OF AUTHORIZATION FOR 
NON-CONVENTIONAL ASSISTED RECOVERY CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Extension.--Subsection (h) of section 943 of the Duncan Hunter 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 
110-417; 122 Stat. 4579), as most recently amended by section 1261(a) 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291), is further 
amended by striking ``2016'' and inserting ``2018''.
    (b) Revision to Annual Limitation on Funds.--Subsection (a) of such 
section 943 is amended--
        (1) by striking ``Upon'' and inserting the following:
        ``(1) In general.--Upon'';
        (2) by striking ``an amount'' and all that follows through 
    ``may be'' and inserting ``amounts appropriated or otherwise made 
    available for the Department of Defense for operation and 
    maintenance may be''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Annual limit.--The total amount made available for 
    support of non-conventional assisted recovery activities under this 
    subsection in any fiscal year may not exceed $25,000,000.''.
    (c) Oversight.--Subsection (b) of such section 943 is amended--
        (1) by striking ``(b) Procedures.--The Secretary'' and 
    inserting the following:
    ``(b) Procedures and Oversight.--
        ``(1) Procedures.--The Secretary''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Programmatic and policy oversight.--The Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense for Special Operations and Low-Intensity 
    Conflict shall have primary programmatic and policy oversight of 
    non-conventional assisted recovery activities authorized by this 
    section.''.
SEC. 1272. AMENDMENT TO THE ANNUAL REPORT UNDER ARMS CONTROL AND 
DISARMAMENT ACT.
    Subsection (e) of section 403 of the Arms Control and Disarmament 
Act (22 U.S.C. 2593a) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Annual Report.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than June 15 of each year 
    described in paragraph (2), the Director of National Intelligence 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
    that contains a detailed assessment, consistent with the provision 
    of classified information and intelligence sources and methods, of 
    the adherence of other nations to obligations undertaken in all 
    arms control, nonproliferation, and disarmament agreements or 
    commitments to which the United States is a party, including 
    information of cases in which any such nation has behaved 
    inconsistently with respect to its obligations undertaken in such 
    agreements or commitments.
        ``(2) Covered year.--A year described in this paragraph is a 
    year in which the President fails to submit the report required by 
    subsection (a) by not later than April 15 of such year.
        ``(3) Form.--The report required by this subsection shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex 
    if necessary.''.
SEC. 1273. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION TO CONDUCT ACTIVITIES TO ENHANCE 
THE CAPABILITY OF FOREIGN COUNTRIES TO RESPOND TO INCIDENTS INVOLVING 
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION.
    Section 1204(h) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 897; 10 U.S.C. 401 note) 
is amended by striking ``September 30, 2017'' and inserting ``September 
30, 2019''.
SEC. 1274. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY FOR SUPPORT OF SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
TO COMBAT TERRORISM.
    (a) Authority.--Subsection (a) of section 1208 of the Ronald W. 
Reagan National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (Public 
Law 108-375; 118 Stat. 2086), as most recently amended by section 
1208(a) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
Stat. 3541), is further amended by striking ``$75,000,000'' and 
inserting ``$85,000,000''.
    (b) Notification.--Subsection (c)(1) of such section 1208, as most 
recently amended by section 1202(b) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2511), is further amended--
        (1) by striking ``Upon using'' and inserting ``Not later than 
    15 days before exercising'';
        (2) by striking ``for support'' and inserting ``to initiate 
    support'';
        (3) by inserting after ``for such an operation,'' the 
    following: ``or not later than 48 hours after exercising such 
    authority provided in subsection (a) if the Secretary of Defense 
    determines that extraordinary circumstances that impact the 
    national security of the United States exist,''; and
        (4) by striking ``expeditiously, and in any event within 48 
    hours,''.
    (c) Annual Report.--Subsection (f)(1) of such section 1208, as most 
recently amended by section 1202(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 
2512), is further amended by striking ``Not later than 120 days after 
the close of each fiscal year during which subsection (a) is in 
effect'' and inserting ``Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016, and every 180 days thereafter''.
    (d) Effective Date.--The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) 
take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with 
respect to each fiscal year that begins on or after such date of 
enactment.
SEC. 1275. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS TO IMPLEMENT THE ARMS 
TRADE TREATY.
    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to implement the 
Arms Trade Treaty, or to make any change to existing programs, 
projects, or activities as approved by Congress in furtherance of, 
pursuant to, or otherwise to implement the Arms Trade Treaty, unless 
the Arms Trade Treaty has received the advice and consent of the Senate 
and has been the subject of implementing legislation, as required, by 
Congress.
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to preclude the Department of Defense from assisting foreign 
countries in bringing their laws and regulations up to United States 
standards.
SEC. 1276. REPORT ON THE SECURITY RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE UNITED 
STATES AND THE REPUBLIC OF CYPRUS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of 
State shall jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees 
a report on the security relationship between the United States and the 
Republic of Cyprus.
    (b) Elements.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) A description of ongoing military and security cooperation 
    between the United States and the Republic of Cyprus.
        (2) A discussion of potential steps for enhancing the bilateral 
    security relationship between the United States and Cyprus, 
    including steps to enhance the military and security capabilities 
    of the Republic of Cyprus.
        (3) An analysis of the effect on the bilateral security 
    relationship of the United States policy to deny applications for 
    licenses and other approvals for the export of defense articles and 
    defense services to the armed forces of Cyprus.
        (4) An analysis of the extent to which such United States 
    policy is consistent with overall United States security and policy 
    objectives in the region.
        (5) An assessment of the potential impact of lifting such 
    United States policy.
    (c) Definition.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1277. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON EUROPEAN DEFENSE AND THE NORTH ATLANTIC 
TREATY ORGANIZATION.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) it is in the national security and fiscal interests of the 
    United States that prompt efforts should be undertaken by North 
    Atlantic Treaty Organization allies to meet defense budget 
    commitments made in Declaration 14 of the Wales Summit Declaration 
    of September 2014;
        (2) thoughtful and coordinated defense investments by European 
    allies in military capabilities would add deterrence value to the 
    posture of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization against Russian 
    aggression and terrorist organizations and more appropriately 
    balance the share of Atlantic defense spending;
        (3) the United States Government should continue to support the 
    open-door policy of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization, 
    declared at the 2014 Summit in Wales that ``NATO's open-door will 
    remain open to all European democracies which share the values of 
    our Alliance, which are willing and able to assume the 
    responsibilities and obligations of membership, which are in a 
    position to further the principles of the Treaty, and whose 
    inclusion will contribute to the security of the North Atlantic 
    area''; and
        (4) the United States Government should--
            (A) continue to work with aspirant countries to prepare 
        such countries for entry into the North Atlantic Treaty 
        Organization;
            (B) work with the Republic of Kosovo to prepare the country 
        for entrance into the Partnership for Peace (PfP) program;
            (C) continue supporting a Membership Action Plan (MAP) for 
        Georgia;
            (D) encourage leaders of Macedonia and Greece to find a 
        mutually agreeable solution to the name dispute between the two 
        countries; and
            (E) support North Atlantic Treaty Organization membership 
        for Montenegro.
SEC. 1278. BRIEFING ON THE SALE OF CERTAIN FIGHTER AIRCRAFT TO QATAR.
    (a) Briefing Required.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, shall, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, provide the appropriate 
committees of Congress a briefing on the risks and benefits of the sale 
of fighter aircraft to Qatar pursuant to the July 2013 Letter of 
Request from the Government of Qatar.
    (b) Elements.--The briefing required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following elements:
        (1) A description of the assumptions regarding the increase to 
    Qatar air force capabilities as a result of the sale described in 
    subsection (a).
        (2) A description of the assumptions regarding the impact of 
    the items sold to Qatar pursuant to the sale on the preservation by 
    Israel of a qualitative military edge.
        (3) An estimated timeline for final adjudication of the 
    decision to approve the sale.
    (c) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
    Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 1279. UNITED STATES-ISRAEL ANTI-TUNNEL COOPERATION.
    (a) Authority To Establish Anti-tunnel Capabilities Program With 
Israel.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, upon request of the 
    Ministry of Defense of Israel and in consultation with the 
    Secretary of State and the Director of National Intelligence, is 
    authorized to carry out research, development, test, and 
    evaluation, on a joint basis with Israel, to establish anti-tunnel 
    capabilities to detect, map, and neutralize underground tunnels 
    that threaten the United States or Israel. Any activities carried 
    out pursuant to such authority shall be conducted in a manner that 
    appropriately protects sensitive information and United States and 
    Israel national security interests.
        (2) Report.--The activities described in paragraph (1) and 
    subsection (b) may be carried out after the Secretary of Defense 
    submits to the appropriate committees of Congress a report setting 
    forth the following:
            (A) A memorandum of agreement between the United States and 
        Israel regarding sharing of research and development costs for 
        the capabilities described in paragraph (1), and any supporting 
        documents.
            (B) A certification that the memorandum of agreement--
                (i) requires sharing of costs of projects, including 
            in-kind support, between the United States and Israel;
                (ii) establishes a framework to negotiate the rights to 
            any intellectual property developed under the memorandum of 
            agreement; and
                (iii) requires the United States Government to receive 
            semiannual reports on expenditure of funds, if any, by the 
            Government of Israel, including a description of what the 
            funds have been used for, when funds were expended, and an 
            identification of entities that expended the funds.
    (b) Support in Connection With Program.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense is authorized to 
    provide maintenance and sustainment support to Israel for the anti-
    tunnel capabilities research, development, test, and evaluation 
    activities authorized in subsection (a)(1). Such authority includes 
    authority to install equipment necessary to carry out such 
    research, development, test, and evaluation.
        (2) Report.--Support may not be provided under paragraph (1) 
    until 15 days after the Secretary submits to the appropriate 
    committees of Congress a report setting forth a detailed 
    description of the support to be provided.
        (3) Matching contribution.--Support may not be provided under 
    this subsection unless the Government of Israel contributes an 
    amount not less than the amount of support to be so provided to the 
    program, project, or activity for which the support is to be so 
    provided.
        (4) Annual limitation on amount.--The amount of support 
    provided under this subsection in any year may not exceed 
    $25,000,000.
    (c) Lead Agency.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate an 
appropriate research and development entity of a military department as 
the lead agency of the Department of Defense in carrying out this 
section.
    (d) Semiannual Reports.--The Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the appropriate committees of Congress on a semiannual basis a report 
that contains a copy of the most recent semiannual report provided by 
the Government of Israel to the Department of Defense pursuant to 
subsection (a)(2)(B)(iii).
    (e) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on 
    Appropriations, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence 
    of the House of Representatives.
    (f) Sunset.--The authority in this section to carry out activities 
described in subsection (a), and to provide support described in 
subsection (b), shall expire on December 31, 2018.
SEC. 1280. NATO SPECIAL OPERATIONS HEADQUARTERS.
    Section 1244(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2541), as most recently 
amended by section 1272(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2023), is further 
amended by striking ``each of fiscal years 2013, 2014, and 2015'' and 
inserting ``each of fiscal years 2013 through 2020''.
SEC. 1281. INCREASED PRESENCE OF UNITED STATES GROUND FORCES IN EASTERN 
EUROPE TO DETER AGGRESSION ON THE BORDER OF THE NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY 
ORGANIZATION.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in consultation 
with the Secretary of State, submit to the appropriate committees of 
Congress a report setting forth an assessment of options for expanding 
the presence of United States ground forces of the size of a Brigade 
Combat Team in Eastern Europe to respond, along with European allies 
and partners, to the security challenges posed by Russia and increase 
the combat capability of forces able to respond to unconventional or 
hybrid warfare tactics such as those used by the Russian Federation in 
Crimea and Eastern Ukraine.
    (b) Elements.--The report under this section shall include the 
following:
        (1) An evaluation of the optimal location or locations of the 
    enhanced ground force presence described in subsection (a) that 
    considers such factors as--
            (A) proximity, suitability, and availability of maneuver 
        and gunnery training areas;
            (B) transportation capabilities;
            (C) availability of facilities, including for potential 
        equipment storage and prepositioning;
            (D) ability to conduct multinational training and 
        exercises;
            (E) a site or sites for prepositioning of equipment, a 
        rotational presence or permanent presence of troops, or a 
        combination of options; and
            (F) costs.
        (2) A description of any initiatives by other members of the 
    North Atlantic Treaty Organization, or other European allies and 
    partners, for enhancing force presence on a permanent or rotational 
    basis in Eastern Europe to match or exceed the potential increased 
    presence of United States ground forces in the region.
    (c) Additional Element on Reduction in Troop Levels or Materiel.--
In addition to the matters specified in subsection (b), the report 
under this section shall also include an assessment of any impacts on 
United States national security interests in Europe of any proposed 
Brigade-sized or other significant reduction in United States troop 
levels or materiel in Europe.
    (d) Appropriate Committees of Congress Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means--
        (1) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations, and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate; and
        (2) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Foreign 
    Affairs, and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
    Representatives.

                TITLE XIII--COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION

Sec. 1301. Specification of Cooperative Threat Reduction funds.
Sec. 1302. Funding allocations.
SEC. 1301. SPECIFICATION OF COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION FUNDS.
    (a) Fiscal Year 2016 Cooperative Threat Reduction Funds Defined.--
In this title, the term ``fiscal year 2016 Cooperative Threat Reduction 
funds'' means the funds appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 301 and made available by the funding table 
in section 4301 for the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat 
Reduction Program established under section 1321 of the Department of 
Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 3711).
    (b) Availability of Funds.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program shall be available for obligation 
for fiscal years 2016, 2017, and 2018.
SEC. 1302. FUNDING ALLOCATIONS.
    Of the $358,496,000 authorized to be appropriated to the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2016 in section 301 and made available by 
the funding table in section 4301 for the Department of Defense 
Cooperative Threat Reduction Program established under section 1321 of 
the Department of Defense Cooperative Threat Reduction Act (50 U.S.C. 
3711), the following amounts may be obligated for the purposes 
specified:
        (1) For strategic offensive arms elimination, $1,289,000.
        (2) For chemical weapons destruction, $942,000.
        (3) For global nuclear security, $20,555,000.
        (4) For cooperative biological engagement, $264,618,000.
        (5) For proliferation prevention, $38,945,000.
        (6) For threat reduction engagement, $2,827,000.
        (7) For activities designated as Other Assessments/
    Administrative Costs, $29,320,000.

                    TITLE XIV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

                      Subtitle A--Military Programs

Sec. 1401. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1402. National Defense Sealift Fund.
Sec. 1403. Chemical Agents and Munitions Destruction, Defense.
Sec. 1404. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1405. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1406. Defense Health Program.
Sec. 1407. National Sea-Based Deterrence Fund.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

Sec. 1411. Extension of date for completion of destruction of existing 
          stockpile of lethal chemical agents and munitions.

                    Subtitle C--Working-Capital Funds

Sec. 1421. Limitation on cessation or suspension of distribution of 
          funds from Department of Defense working-capital funds.
Sec. 1422. Working-capital fund reserve account for petroleum market 
          price fluctuations.

                        Subtitle D--Other Matters

Sec. 1431. Authority for transfer of funds to Joint Department of 
          Defense-Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility 
          Demonstration Fund for Captain James A. Lovell Health Care 
          Center, Illinois.
Sec. 1432. Authorization of appropriations for Armed Forces Retirement 
          Home.

                     Subtitle A--Military Programs

SEC. 1401. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1402. NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the National Defense Sealift Fund, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4501.
SEC. 1403. CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION, DEFENSE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2016 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for Chemical Agents and 
Munitions Destruction, Defense, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501.
    (b) Use.--Amounts authorized to be appropriated under subsection 
(a) are authorized for--
        (1) the destruction of lethal chemical agents and munitions in 
    accordance with section 1412 of the Department of Defense 
    Authorization Act, 1986 (50 U.S.C. 1521); and
        (2) the destruction of chemical warfare materiel of the United 
    States that is not covered by section 1412 of such Act.
SEC. 1404. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2016 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1405. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2016 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4501.
SEC. 1406. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4501, for use of the Armed Forces and other activities and 
agencies of the Department of Defense in providing for the health of 
eligible beneficiaries.
SEC. 1407. NATIONAL SEA-BASED DETERRENCE FUND.
    There are authorized to be appropriated to the National Sea-Based 
Deterrence Fund such sums as may be necessary for fiscal year 2017.

                 Subtitle B--National Defense Stockpile

SEC. 1411. EXTENSION OF DATE FOR COMPLETION OF DESTRUCTION OF EXISTING 
STOCKPILE OF LETHAL CHEMICAL AGENTS AND MUNITIONS.
    Section 1412(b)(3) of the Department of Defense Authorization Act, 
1986 (Public Law 99-145; 50 U.S.C. 1521) is amended by striking 
``December 31, 2017'' and inserting ``December 31, 2023''.

                   Subtitle C--Working-Capital Funds

SEC. 1421. LIMITATION ON CESSATION OR SUSPENSION OF DISTRIBUTION OF 
FUNDS FROM DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE WORKING-CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(s) Limitation on Cessation or Suspension of Distribution of 
Funds for Certain Workload.--(1) Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military department is 
not authorized--
        ``(A) to suspend the employment of indirectly funded Government 
    employees of the Department of Defense who are paid for out of 
    working-capital funds by ceasing or suspending the distribution of 
    such funds; or
        ``(B) to cease or suspend the distribution of funds from a 
    working-capital fund for a current project undertaken to carry out 
    the functions or activities of the Department.
    ``(2) Paragraph (1) shall not apply with respect to a working-
capital fund if--
        ``(A) the working-capital fund is insolvent; or
        ``(B) there are insufficient funds in the working-capital fund 
    to pay labor costs for the current project concerned.
    ``(3) The Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of a military 
department may waive the limitation in paragraph (1) if such Secretary 
determines that the waiver is in the national security interests of the 
United States.
    ``(4) This subsection shall not be construed to provide for the 
exclusion of any particular category of employees of the Department of 
Defense from furlough due to absence of or inadequate funding.''.
SEC. 1422. WORKING-CAPITAL FUND RESERVE ACCOUNT FOR PETROLEUM MARKET 
PRICE FLUCTUATIONS.
    Section 2208 of title 10, United States Code, as amended by section 
1421, is further amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(t) Market Fluctuation Account.--(1) From amounts available for 
Working Capital Fund, Defense, the Secretary shall reserve up to 
$1,000,000,000, to remain available without fiscal year limitation, for 
petroleum market price fluctuations. Such amounts may only be disbursed 
if the Secretary determines such a disbursement is necessary to absorb 
volatile market changes in fuel prices without affecting the standard 
price charged for fuel.
    ``(2) A budget request for the anticipated costs of fuel may not 
take into account the availability of funds reserved under paragraph 
(1).''.

                       Subtitle D--Other Matters

SEC. 1431. AUTHORITY FOR TRANSFER OF FUNDS TO JOINT DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE-DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS MEDICAL FACILITY DEMONSTRATION 
FUND FOR CAPTAIN JAMES A. LOVELL HEALTH CARE CENTER, ILLINOIS.
    (a) Authority for Transfer of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated for section 1406 and available for the Defense Health 
Program for operation and maintenance, $120,387,000 may be transferred 
by the Secretary of Defense to the Joint Department of Defense-
Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Facility Demonstration Fund 
established by subsection (a)(1) of section 1704 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 123 
Stat. 2571). For purposes of subsection (a)(2) of such section 1704, 
any funds so transferred shall be treated as amounts authorized and 
appropriated specifically for the purpose of such a transfer.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--For the purposes of subsection (b) 
of such section 1704, facility operations for which funds transferred 
under subsection (a) may be used are operations of the Captain James A. 
Lovell Federal Health Care Center, consisting of the North Chicago 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Navy Ambulatory Care Center, and 
supporting facilities designated as a combined Federal medical facility 
under an operational agreement covered by section 706 of the Duncan 
Hunter National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public 
Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 4500).
SEC. 1432. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR ARMED FORCES RETIREMENT 
HOME.
     There is hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
from the Armed Forces Retirement Home Trust Fund the sum of $64,300,000 
for the operation of the Armed Forces Retirement Home.

   TITLE XV--AUTHORIZATION OF ADDITIONAL APPROPRIATIONS FOR OVERSEAS 
                         CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS

               Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 1501. Purpose and treatment of certain authorizations of 
          appropriations.
Sec. 1502. Procurement.
Sec. 1503. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 1504. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 1505. Military personnel.
Sec. 1506. Working capital funds.
Sec. 1507. Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide.
Sec. 1508. Defense Inspector General.
Sec. 1509. Defense Health program.
Sec. 1510. Counterterrorism Partnerships Fund.

                      Subtitle B--Financial Matters

Sec. 1521. Treatment as additional authorizations.
Sec. 1522. Special transfer authority.

           Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

Sec. 1531. Afghanistan Security Forces Fund.
Sec. 1532. Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund.
Sec. 1533. Availability of Joint Improvised Explosive Device Defeat Fund 
          for training of foreign security forces to defeat improvised 
          explosive devices.
Sec. 1534. Comptroller General report on use of certain funds provided 
          for operation and maintenance.

              Subtitle A--Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 1501. PURPOSE AND TREATMENT OF CERTAIN AUTHORIZATIONS OF 
APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this subtitle is to authorize 
appropriations for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2016 to 
provide additional funds--
        (1) for overseas contingency operations being carried out by 
    the Armed Forces, in such amounts as may be designated as provided 
    in section 251(b)(2)(A)(ii) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
    Deficit Control Act of 1985; and
        (2) pursuant to section 1504, for expenses, not otherwise 
    provided for, for operation and maintenance, as specified in the 
    funding table in section 4303.
    (b) Support of Base Budget Requirements; Treatment.--
        (1) In general.--Funds identified in paragraph (2) of 
    subsection (a) are being authorized to be appropriated in support 
    of base budget requirements as requested by the President for 
    fiscal year 2016 pursuant to section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
    States Code.
        (2) Apportionment.--The Director of the Office of Management 
    and Budget shall apportion the funds identified in paragraph (2) of 
    subsection (a) to the Department of Defense without restriction, 
    limitation, or constraint on the execution of such funds in support 
    of base requirements, including any restriction, limitation, or 
    constraint imposed by, or described in, the document entitled 
    ``Criteria for War/Overseas Contingency Operations Funding 
    Requests'' transmitted by the Director to the Department of Defense 
    on September 9, 2010, or any successor or related guidance.
        (3) Execution and use.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    apportion, use, and execute the funds apportioned by the Director 
    of the Office of Management and Budget as described in paragraph 
    (2) of this subsection without restriction, limitation, or 
    constraint on the execution of such funds in support of base 
    requirements, including any restriction, limitation, or constraint 
    specifically described in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
    (c) Effect of Enactment of Act Revising Discretionary Spending 
Limits.--
        (1) In general.--In the event of the enactment of an Act 
    revising discretionary spending limits for fiscal year 2016, the 
    amount that is authorized to be appropriated by section 1504, as 
    specified in the funding table in section 4303, and is not greater 
    than the amount of the increase in the discretionary spending limit 
    for revised security activities by that Act, shall be deemed to 
    have been authorized to be appropriated by section 301 rather than 
    section 1504.
        (2) Definitions.--In this subsection:
            (A) The term ``Act revising discretionary spending limits 
        for fiscal year 2016'' means an Act enacted after the date of 
        enactment of this Act that, at a minimum and in a bi-partisan 
        manner, increases the discretionary spending limits set in the 
        Budget Control Act of 2011 (Public Law 112-25) for fiscal year 
        2016.
            (B) The terms ``discretionary spending limit'' and 
        ``revised security category'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 250 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency 
        Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900).
SEC. 1502. PROCUREMENT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for procurement accounts for the Army, the Navy and the Marine Corps, 
the Air Force, and Defense-wide activities, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102.
SEC. 1503. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Department of Defense for research, development, 
test, and evaluation, as specified in the funding table in section 
4202.
SEC. 1504. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
operation and maintenance, as specified in--
        (1) the funding table in section 4302, or
        (2) the funding table in section 4303.
SEC. 1505. MILITARY PERSONNEL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for 
military personnel, as specified in the funding table in section 4402.
SEC. 1506. WORKING CAPITAL FUNDS.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 
for the use of the Armed Forces and other activities and agencies of 
the Department of Defense for providing capital for working capital and 
revolving funds, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1507. DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE-WIDE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2016 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for Drug Interdiction and Counter-Drug Activities, Defense-wide, 
as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1508. DEFENSE INSPECTOR GENERAL.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2016 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of 
Defense, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
SEC. 1509. DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for the Department 
of Defense for fiscal year 2016 for expenses, not otherwise provided 
for, for the Defense Health Program, as specified in the funding table 
in section 4502.
SEC. 1510. COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2016 
for expenses, not otherwise provided for, for the Counterterrorism 
Partnerships Fund, as specified in the funding table in section 4502.
    (b) Duration of Availability.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available for obligation through September 30, 2017.

                     Subtitle B--Financial Matters

SEC. 1521. TREATMENT AS ADDITIONAL AUTHORIZATIONS.
    The amounts authorized to be appropriated by this title are in 
addition to amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act.
SEC. 1522. SPECIAL TRANSFER AUTHORITY.
    (a) Authority To Transfer Authorizations.--
        (1) Authority.--Upon determination by the Secretary of Defense 
    that such action is necessary in the national interest, the 
    Secretary may transfer amounts of authorizations made available to 
    the Department of Defense in this title for fiscal year 2016 
    between any such authorizations for that fiscal year (or any 
    subdivisions thereof).
        (2) Effect of transfer.--Amounts of authorizations transferred 
    under this subsection shall be merged with and be available for the 
    same purposes as the authorization to which transferred.
        (3) Limitations.--The total amount of authorizations that the 
    Secretary may transfer under the authority of this subsection may 
    not exceed $3,500,000,000.
        (4) Exception.--In the case of the authorization of 
    appropriations contained in section 1504 that is provided for the 
    purpose specified in section 1501(a)(2), the transfer authority 
    provided under section 1001, rather than the transfer authority 
    provided by this subsection, shall apply to any transfer of amounts 
    of such authorization.
    (b) Terms and Conditions.--Transfers under this section shall be 
subject to the same terms and conditions as transfers under section 
1001.
    (c) Additional Authority.--The transfer authority provided by this 
section is in addition to the transfer authority provided under section 
1001.

          Subtitle C--Limitations, Reports, and Other Matters

SEC. 1531. AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES FUND.
    (a) Continuation of Prior Authorities and Notice and Reporting 
Requirements.--Funds available to the Department of Defense for the 
Afghanistan Security Forces Fund for fiscal year 2016 shall be subject 
to the conditions contained in subsections (b) through (g) of section 
1513 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2008 
(Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 428), as amended by section 1531(b) of 
the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2011 
(Public Law 111-383; 124 Stat. 4424).
    (b) Equipment Disposition.--
        (1) Acceptance of certain equipment.--Subject to paragraph (2), 
    the Secretary of Defense may accept equipment that is procured 
    using amounts in the Afghanistan Security Forces Fund authorized 
    under this Act and is intended for transfer to the security forces 
    of Afghanistan, but is not accepted by such security forces.
        (2) Conditions on acceptance of equipment.--Before accepting 
    any equipment under the authority provided by paragraph (1), the 
    Commander of United States forces in Afghanistan shall make a 
    determination that the equipment was procured for the purpose of 
    meeting requirements of the security forces of Afghanistan, as 
    agreed to by both the Government of Afghanistan and the United 
    States, but is no longer required by such security forces or was 
    damaged before transfer to such security forces.
        (3) Elements of determination.--In making a determination under 
    paragraph (2) regarding equipment, the Commander of United States 
    forces in Afghanistan shall consider alternatives to Secretary of 
    Defense acceptance of the equipment. An explanation of each 
    determination, including the basis for the determination and the 
    alternatives considered, shall be included in the relevant 
    quarterly report required under paragraph (5).
        (4) Treatment as department of defense stocks.--Equipment 
    accepted under the authority provided by paragraph (1) may be 
    treated as stocks of the Department of Defense upon notification to 
    the congressional defense committees of such treatment.
        (5) Quarterly reports on equipment disposition.--Not later than 
    90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and every 90-
    day period thereafter during which the authority provided by 
    paragraph (1) is exercised, the Secretary of Defense shall submit 
    to the congressional defense committees a report describing the 
    equipment accepted under this subsection, section 1531(d) of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 
    113-66; 127 Stat. 938; 10 U.S.C. 2302 note), and section 1532(b) of 
    the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 
    Stat. 3612) during the period covered by the report. Each report 
    shall include a list of all equipment that was accepted during the 
    period covered by the report and treated as stocks of the 
    Department and copies of the determinations made under paragraph 
    (2), as required by paragraph (3).
    (c) Plan To Promote Security of Afghan Women.--
        (1) Reporting requirement.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
    concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall include in the report 
    required under section 1225 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
    ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3550)--
            (A) an assessment of the security of Afghan women and 
        girls, including information regarding efforts to increase the 
        recruitment and retention of women in the Afghan National 
        Security Forces; and
            (B) an assessment of the implementation of the plans for 
        the recruitment, integration, retention, training, treatment, 
        and provision of appropriate facilities and transportation for 
        women in the Afghan National Security Forces, including the 
        challenges associated with such implementation and the steps 
        being taken to address those challenges.
        (2) Plan required.--
            (A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State, shall support, to the 
        extent practicable, the efforts of the Government of 
        Afghanistan to promote the security of Afghan women and girls 
        during and after the security transition process through the 
        development and implementation by the Government of Afghanistan 
        of an Afghan-led plan that should include the elements 
        described in this paragraph.
            (B) Training.--The Secretary of Defense, with the 
        concurrence of the Secretary of State and working with the 
        NATO-led Resolute Support mission, should encourage the 
        Government of Afghanistan to develop--
                (i) measures for the evaluation of the effectiveness of 
            existing training for Afghan National Security Forces on 
            this issue;
                (ii) a plan to increase the number of female security 
            officers specifically trained to address cases of gender-
            based violence, including ensuring the Afghan National 
            Police's Family Response Units have the necessary resources 
            and are available to women across Afghanistan;
                (iii) mechanisms to enhance the capacity for units of 
            National Police's Family Response Units to fulfill their 
            mandate as well as indicators measuring the operational 
            effectiveness of these units;
                (iv) a plan to address the development of 
            accountability mechanisms for Afghanistan National Army and 
            Afghanistan National Police personnel who violate codes of 
            conduct related to the human rights of women and girls, 
            including female members of the Afghan National Security 
            Forces; and
                (v) a plan to develop training for the Afghanistan 
            National Army and the Afghanistan National Police to 
            increase awareness and responsiveness among Afghanistan 
            National Army and Afghanistan National Police personnel 
            regarding the unique security challenges women confront 
            when serving in those forces.
            (C) Enrollment and treatment.--The Secretary of Defense, 
        with the concurrence of the Secretary of State and in 
        cooperation with the Afghan Ministries of Defense and Interior, 
        shall seek to assist the Government of Afghanistan in including 
        as part of the plan developed under subparagraph (A) the 
        development and implementation of a plan to increase the number 
        of female members of the Afghanistan National Army and the 
        Afghanistan National Police and to promote their equal 
        treatment, including through such steps as providing 
        appropriate equipment, modifying facilities, and ensuring 
        literacy and gender awareness training for recruits.
            (D) Allocation of funds.--
                (i) In general.--Of the funds available to the 
            Department of Defense for the Afghan Security Forces Fund 
            for fiscal year 2016, it is the goal that $25,000,000, but 
            in no event less than $10,000,000, shall be used for--

                    (I) the recruitment, integration, retention, 
                training, and treatment of women in the Afghan National 
                Security Forces; and
                    (II) the recruitment, training, and contracting of 
                female security personnel for future elections.

                (ii) Types of programs and activities.--Such programs 
            and activities may include--

                    (I) efforts to recruit women into the Afghan 
                National Security Forces, including the special 
                operations forces;
                    (II) programs and activities of the Afghan Ministry 
                of Defense Directorate of Human Rights and Gender 
                Integration and the Afghan Ministry of Interior Office 
                of Human Rights, Gender and Child Rights;
                    (III) development and dissemination of gender and 
                human rights educational and training materials and 
                programs within the Afghan Ministry of Defense and the 
                Afghan Ministry of Interior;
                    (IV) efforts to address harassment and violence 
                against women within the Afghan National Security 
                Forces;
                    (V) improvements to infrastructure that address the 
                requirements of women serving in the Afghan National 
                Security Forces, including appropriate equipment for 
                female security and police forces, and transportation 
                for policewomen to their station;
                    (VI) support for Afghanistan National Police Family 
                Response Units; and
                    (VII) security provisions for high-profile female 
                police and army officers.

SEC. 1532. JOINT IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE DEFEAT FUND.
    (a) Use and Transfer of Funds.--Subsections (b) and (c) of section 
1514 of the John Warner National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2007 (Public Law 109-364; 120 Stat. 2439), as in effect before the 
amendments made by section 1503 of the Duncan Hunter National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2009 (Public Law 110-417; 122 Stat. 
4649), shall apply to the funds made available for fiscal year 2016 to 
the Department of Defense for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
Defeat Fund.
    (b) Extension of Interdiction of Improvised Explosive Device 
Precursor Chemicals Authority.--Section 1532(c) of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2057) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting ``and for fiscal year 
    2016,'' after ``fiscal year 2013''; and
        (2) in paragraph (4), as most recently amended by section 
    1533(c) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 
    128 Stat. 3615), by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting 
    ``December 31, 2016''.
    (c) Plan for Transition.--Not later than January 31, 2016, the 
Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a plan and timeline for each of the following:
        (1) The full and complete transition of the activities, 
    functions, and resources of the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat 
    Agency to an office under the authority, direction, and control of 
    a military department or a Defense Agency in existence as of 
    October 1, 2015.
        (2) The transition of the Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
    Defeat Fund to a successor fund that provides for the continuation 
    of current flexibility in funding the activities supported and 
    enabled by the Fund.
        (3) The transition of the Counter-Improvised Explosive Device 
    Operations/Intelligence Integration Center of the Joint Improvised-
    Threat Defeat Agency to an element of a military department or a 
    Defense Agency in existence as of October 1, 2015.
        (4) The transition of the research, development, and 
    acquisition activities of the Joint Improvised-Threat Defeat Agency 
    to an element of a military department or a Defense Agency in 
    existence as of October 1, 2015.
    (d) Final Implementation Plan and Timeline.--
        (1) Plan and timeline required.--Not later than 270 days after 
    the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a plan and 
    timeline that--
            (A) incorporates the plans and timelines required by 
        paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (c); and
            (B) provides for the completion of the implementation of 
        such plans by not later than September 30, 2016.
        (2) Summary description of necessary actions.--In submitting 
    the plan and timeline required by this subsection, the Secretary 
    shall also submit a summary description of the actions to be taken 
    by the Department of Defense to complete implementation of the 
    plans and timelines required by paragraphs (1) through (4) of 
    subsection (c) by September 30, 2016.
        (3) Compliance with deadlines.--
            (A) Limitation on availability of funds.--Except as 
        provided in subparagraph (B), if the Secretary does not submit 
        the plan and timeline required by paragraph (1) before the 
        deadline specified in that paragraph, or does not complete 
        implementation of such plan before the deadline specified in 
        subparagraph (B) of that paragraph, none of the funds available 
        to the Department of Defense for the Joint Improvised Explosive 
        Device Defeat Fund may be obligated after September 30, 2016.
            (B) Exception.--Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the 
        obligation of funds referred to in such subparagraph after 
        September 30, 2016, for operations or operational support 
        activities determined by the Secretary to be critical to force 
        protection in overseas contingency operations.
    (e) Prohibition on Use of Funds for Implementation of Combat 
Support Agency Determination.--
        (1) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated for the Department of Defense may be obligated or 
    expended to implement administrative, organizational, facility, or 
    non-operational changes necessary to carry out the Joint 
    Improvised-Threat Defeat Agency transition and consolidation.
        (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall be 
    construed to mean that ongoing activities directly supporting 
    overseas contingency operations must be halted.
SEC. 1533. AVAILABILITY OF JOINT IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICE DEFEAT 
FUND FOR TRAINING OF FOREIGN SECURITY FORCES TO DEFEAT IMPROVISED 
EXPLOSIVE DEVICES.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--
        (1) In general.--Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated 
    for fiscal year 2016 for the Joint Improvised Explosive Device 
    Defeat Fund, or a successor fund, up to $30,000,000 may be 
    available to the Secretary of Defense to provide training to 
    foreign security forces to defeat improvised explosive devices 
    under authority provided the Department of Defense under any other 
    provision of law.
        (2) Applicability of contingent limitation.--The availability 
    of funds under this subsection is subject to the contingent 
    limitation on the availability of amounts in the Joint Improvised 
    Explosive Device Defeat Fund after September 30, 2016, in section 
    1532(g).
    (b) Construction of Availability of Funds.--The availability of 
funds under subsection (a) shall not be construed as authority in and 
of itself for the provision of training as described in that 
subsection.
    (c) Geographic Limitation.--Training may be provided using funds 
available under subsection (a) only--
        (1) in locations in which the Department is conducting a named 
    operation; or
        (2) in geographic areas in which the Secretary of Defense has 
    determined that a foreign security force is facing a significant 
    threat from improvised explosive devices.
    (d) Coordination With Geographic Combatant Commands.--The Secretary 
of Defense shall, to the extent practicable, coordinate the provision 
of training using funds available under subsection (a) with requests 
received from the commanders of the geographic combatant commands.
    (e) Expiration.--The authority to use funds described in subsection 
(a) in accordance with this section shall expire on September 30, 2018.
SEC. 1534. COMPTROLLER GENERAL REPORT ON USE OF CERTAIN FUNDS PROVIDED 
FOR OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
    The Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to 
Congress a report specifying how all funds made available pursuant to 
section 1504 for operation and maintenance, as specified in the funding 
table in section 4303, are ultimately used.

     TITLE XVI--STRATEGIC PROGRAMS, CYBER, AND INTELLIGENCE MATTERS

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

Sec. 1601. Major force program and budget for national security space 
          programs.
Sec. 1602. Principal advisor on space control.
Sec. 1603. Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense 
          Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Enterprise.
Sec. 1604. Modification to development of space science and technology 
          strategy.
Sec. 1605. Delegation of authority regarding purchase of Global 
          Positioning System user equipment.
Sec. 1606. Rocket propulsion system development program.
Sec. 1607. Exception to the prohibition on contracting with Russian 
          suppliers of rocket engines for the evolved expendable launch 
          vehicle program.
Sec. 1608. Acquisition strategy for evolved expendable launch vehicle 
          program.
Sec. 1609. Allocation of funding for evolved expendable launch vehicle 
          program.
Sec. 1610. Consolidation of acquisition of wideband satellite 
          communications.
Sec. 1611. Analysis of alternatives for wide-band communications.
Sec. 1612. Expansion of goals and modification of pilot program for 
          acquisition of commercial satellite communication services.
Sec. 1613. Integrated policy to deter adversaries in space.
Sec. 1614. Prohibition on reliance on China and Russia for space-based 
          weather data.
Sec. 1615. Limitation on availability of funds for weather satellite 
          follow-on system.
Sec. 1616. Limitations on availability of funds for the Defense 
          Meteorological Satellite program.
Sec. 1617. Streamline of commercial space launch activities.
Sec. 1618. Plan on full integration and exploitation of overhead 
          persistent infrared capability.
Sec. 1619. Options for rapid space reconstitution.
Sec. 1620. Evaluation of exploitation of space-based infrared system 
          against additional threats.
Sec. 1621. Quarterly reports on Global Positioning System III space 
          segment, Global Positioning System operational control 
          segment, and Military Global Positioning System user equipment 
          acquisition programs.
Sec. 1622. Sense of Congress on missile defense sensors in space.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

Sec. 1631. Executive agent for open-source intelligence tools.
Sec. 1632. Waiver and congressional notification requirements related to 
          facilities for intelligence collection or for special 
          operations abroad.
Sec. 1633. Prohibition on National Intelligence Program consolidation.
Sec. 1634. Limitation on availability of funds for Office of the Under 
          Secretary of Defense for Intelligence.
Sec. 1635. Department of Defense intelligence needs.
Sec. 1636. Report on management of certain programs of Defense 
          intelligence elements.
Sec. 1637. Report on Air National Guard contributions to the RQ-4 Global 
          Hawk mission.
Sec. 1638. Government Accountability Office review of intelligence input 
          to the defense acquisition process.

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

Sec. 1641. Codification and addition of liability protections relating 
          to reporting on cyber incidents or penetrations of networks 
          and information systems of certain contractors.
Sec. 1642. Authorization of military cyber operations.
Sec. 1643. Limitation on availability of funds pending the submission of 
          integrated policy to deter adversaries in cyberspace.
Sec. 1644. Authorization for procurement of relocatable Sensitive 
          Compartmented Information Facility.
Sec. 1645. Designation of military department entity responsible for 
          acquisition of critical cyber capabilities.
Sec. 1646. Assessment of capabilities of United States Cyber Command to 
          defend the United States from cyber attacks.
Sec. 1647. Evaluation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems 
          of the Department of Defense.
Sec. 1648. Comprehensive plan and biennial exercises on responding to 
          cyber attacks.
Sec. 1649. Sense of Congress on reviewing and considering findings and 
          recommendations of Council of Governors on cyber capabilities 
          of the Armed Forces.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

Sec. 1651. Assessment of threats to National Leadership Command, 
          Control, and Communications System.
Sec. 1652. Organization of nuclear deterrence functions of the Air 
          Force.
Sec. 1653. Procurement authority for certain parts of intercontinental 
          ballistic missile fuzes.
Sec. 1654. Prohibition on availability of funds for de-alerting 
          intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Sec. 1655. Assessment of global nuclear environment.
Sec. 1656. Annual briefing on the costs of forward-deploying nuclear 
          weapons in Europe.
Sec. 1657. Report on the number of planned long-range standoff weapons.
Sec. 1658. Review of Comptroller General of the United States on 
          recommendations relating to nuclear enterprise of the 
          Department of Defense.
Sec. 1659. Sense of Congress on organization of Navy for nuclear 
          deterrence mission.
Sec. 1660. Sense of Congress on the nuclear force improvement program of 
          the Air Force.
Sec. 1661. Senses of Congress on importance of cooperation and 
          collaboration between United States and United Kingdom on 
          nuclear issues and on 60th anniversary of Fleet Ballistic 
          Missile Program.
Sec. 1662. Sense of Congress on plan for implementation of Nuclear 
          Enterprise Reviews.
Sec. 1663. Sense of Congress and report on milestone A decision on long-
          range standoff weapon.
Sec. 1664. Sense of Congress on policy on the nuclear triad.
Sec. 1665. Report relating to the costs associated with extending the 
          life of the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic missile.

         Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs and Other Matters

Sec. 1671. Prohibitions on providing certain missile defense information 
          to Russian Federation.
Sec. 1672. Prohibition on integration of missile defense systems of 
          Russian Federation into missile defense systems of United 
          States.
Sec. 1673. Prohibition on integration of missile defense systems of 
          China into missile defense systems of United States.
Sec. 1674. Limitations on availability of funds for Patriot lower tier 
          air and missile defense capability of the Army.
Sec. 1675. Integration and interoperability of air and missile defense 
          capabilities of the United States.
Sec. 1676. Integration and interoperability of allied missile defense 
          capabilities.
Sec. 1677. Missile defense capability in Europe.
Sec. 1678. Availability of funds for Iron Dome short-range rocket 
          defense system.
Sec. 1679. Israeli cooperative missile defense program codevelopment and 
          coproduction.
Sec. 1680. Boost phase defense system.
Sec. 1681. Development and deployment of multiple-object kill vehicle 
          for missile defense of the United States homeland.
Sec. 1682. Requirement to replace capability enhancement I 
          exoatmospheric kill vehicles.
Sec. 1683. Designation of preferred location of additional missile 
          defense site in the United States and plan for expediting 
          deployment time of such site.
Sec. 1684. Additional missile defense sensor coverage for protection of 
          United States homeland.
Sec. 1685. Concept development of space-based missile defense layer.
Sec. 1686. Aegis Ashore capability development.
Sec. 1687. Development of requirements to support integrated air and 
          missile defense capabilities.
Sec. 1688. Extension of requirement for Comptroller General of the 
          United States review and assessment of missile defense 
          acquisition programs.
Sec. 1689. Report on medium range ballistic missile defense sensor 
          alternatives for enhanced defense of Hawaii.
Sec. 1690. Sense of Congress and report on validated military 
          requirement and Milestone A decision on prompt global strike 
          weapon system.

                      Subtitle A--Space Activities

SEC. 1601. MAJOR FORCE PROGRAM AND BUDGET FOR NATIONAL SECURITY SPACE 
PROGRAMS.
    (a) Budget Matters.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 9 of title 10, United States Code, is 
    amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 239. National security space programs: major force program and 
   budget assessment
    ``(a) Establishment of Major Force Program.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall establish a unified major force program for national 
security space programs pursuant to section 222(b) of this title to 
prioritize national security space activities in accordance with the 
requirements of the Department of Defense and national security.
    ``(b) Budget Assessment.--(1) The Secretary shall include with the 
defense budget materials for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2020 a 
report on the budget for national security space programs of the 
Department of Defense.
    ``(2) Each report on the budget for national security space 
programs of the Department of Defense under paragraph (1) shall include 
the following:
        ``(A) An overview of the budget, including--
            ``(i) a comparison between that budget, the previous 
        budget, the most recent and prior future-years defense program 
        submitted to Congress under section 221 of this title, and the 
        amounts appropriated for such programs during the previous 
        fiscal year; and
            ``(ii) the specific identification, as a budgetary line 
        item, for the funding under such programs.
        ``(B) An assessment of the budget, including significant 
    changes, priorities, challenges, and risks.
        ``(C) Any additional matters the Secretary determines 
    appropriate.
    ``(3) Each report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `budget', with respect to a fiscal year, means 
    the budget for that fiscal year that is submitted to Congress by 
    the President under section 1105(a) of title 31.
        ``(2) The term `defense budget materials', with respect to a 
    fiscal year, means the materials submitted to Congress by the 
    Secretary of Defense in support of the budget for that fiscal 
    year.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
    section 238 the following new item:

``239. National security space programs: major force program and budget 
          assessment.''.

    (b) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a plan to carry out the unified major force program 
designation required by section 239(a) of title 10, United States Code, 
as added by subsection (a)(1), including any recommendations for 
legislative action the Secretary determines appropriate.
SEC. 1602. PRINCIPAL ADVISOR ON SPACE CONTROL.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 2279a. Principal Advisor on Space Control
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall designate a 
senior official of the Department of Defense or a military department 
to serve as the Principal Space Control Advisor, who, in addition to 
the other duties of such senior official, shall act as the principal 
advisor to the Secretary on space control activities.
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Principal Space Control Advisor shall 
be responsible for the following:
        ``(1) Supervision of space control activities related to the 
    development, procurement, and employment of, and strategy relating 
    to, space control capabilities.
        ``(2) Oversight of policy, resources, personnel, and 
    acquisition and technology relating to space control activities.
    ``(c) Cross-functional Team.--The Principal Space Control Advisor 
shall integrate the space control expertise and perspectives of 
appropriate organizational entities of the Office of the Secretary of 
Defense, the Joint Staff, the military departments, the Defense 
Agencies, and the combatant commands, by establishing and maintaining a 
cross-functional team of subject-matter experts who are otherwise 
assigned or detailed to those entities.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 
2279 the following new item:

``2279a. Principal Advisor on Space Control.''.
SEC. 1603. COUNCIL ON OVERSIGHT OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE 
POSITIONING, NAVIGATION, AND TIMING ENTERPRISE.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 135 of title 10, United States Code, as 
amended by section 1602, is further amended by adding at the end the 
following new section:
``Sec. 2279b. Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense 
     Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Enterprise
    ``(a) Establishment.--There is within the Department of Defense a 
council to be known as the `Council on Oversight of the Department of 
Defense Positioning, Navigation, and Timing Enterprise' (in this 
section referred to as the `Council').
    ``(b) Membership.--The members of the Council shall be as follows:
        ``(1) The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy.
        ``(2) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
    Technology, and Logistics.
        ``(3) The Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
        ``(4) The Commander of the United States Strategic Command.
        ``(5) The Commander of the United States Northern Command.
        ``(6) The Commander of United States Cyber Command.
        ``(7) The Director of the National Security Agency.
        ``(8) The Chief Information Officer of the Department of 
    Defense.
        ``(9) The Secretaries of the military departments, who shall be 
    ex officio members.
        ``(10) Such other officers of the Department of Defense as the 
    Secretary may designate.
    ``(c) Co-chair.--The Council shall be co-chaired by the Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the 
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
    ``(d) Responsibilities.--(1) The Council shall be responsible for 
oversight of the Department of Defense positioning, navigation, and 
timing enterprise, including positioning, navigation, and timing 
services provided to civil, commercial, scientific, and international 
users.
    ``(2) In carrying out the responsibility for oversight of the 
Department of Defense positioning, navigation, and timing enterprise as 
specified in paragraph (1), the Council shall be responsible for the 
following:
        ``(A) Oversight of performance assessments (including 
    interoperability).
        ``(B) Vulnerability identification and mitigation.
        ``(C) Architecture development.
        ``(D) Resource prioritization.
        ``(E) Such other responsibilities as the Secretary of Defense 
    shall specify for purposes of this section.
    ``(e) Annual Reports.--At the same time each year that the budget 
of the President is submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, the Council shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the activities of the Council. Each report shall 
include the following:
        ``(1) A description and assessment of the activities of the 
    Council during the previous fiscal year.
        ``(2) A description of the activities proposed to be undertaken 
    by the Council during the period covered by the current future-
    years defense program under section 221 of this title.
        ``(3) Any changes to the requirements of the Department of 
    Defense positioning, navigation, and timing enterprise made during 
    the previous year, along with an explanation for why the changes 
    were made and a description of the effects of the changes to the 
    capability of such enterprise.
        ``(4) A breakdown of each program element in such budget that 
    relates to the Department of Defense positioning, navigation, and 
    timing enterprise, including how such program element relates to 
    the operation and sustainment, research and development, 
    procurement, or other activity of such enterprise.
    ``(f) Budget and Funding Matters.--(1) Not later than 30 days after 
the President submits to Congress the budget for a fiscal year under 
section 1105(a) of title 31, the Commander of the United States 
Strategic Command shall submit to the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of 
Staff an assessment of--
        ``(A) whether such budget allows the Federal Government to meet 
    the required capabilities of the Department of Defense positioning, 
    navigation, and timing enterprise during the fiscal year covered by 
    the budget and the four subsequent fiscal years; and
        ``(B) if the Commander determines that such budget does not 
    allow the Federal Government to meet such required capabilities, a 
    description of the steps being taken to meet such required 
    capabilities.
    ``(2) Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Chairman 
of the Joint Chiefs of Staff receives the assessment of the Commander 
of the United States Strategic Command under paragraph (1), the 
Chairman shall submit to the congressional defense committees--
        ``(A) such assessment as it was submitted to the Chairman; and
        ``(B) any comments of the Chairman.
    ``(3) If a House of Congress adopts a bill authorizing or 
appropriating funds for the activities of the Department of Defense 
positioning, navigation, and timing enterprise that, as determined by 
the Council, provides insufficient funds for such activities for the 
period covered by such bill, the Council shall notify the congressional 
defense committees of the determination.
    ``(g) Notification of Anomalies.--(1) The Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees written 
notification of an anomaly in the Department of Defense positioning, 
navigation, and timing enterprise that is reported to the Secretary or 
the Council by not later than 14 days after the date on which the 
Secretary or the Council learns of such anomaly, as the case may be.
    ``(2) In this subsection, the term `anomaly' means any unplanned, 
irregular, or abnormal event, whether unexplained or caused 
intentionally or unintentionally by a person or a system.
    ``(h) Termination.--The Council shall terminate on the date that is 
10 years after the date of the enactment of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such chapter, as amended by section 1602, is further amended by 
inserting after the item relating to section 2279a the following new 
item:

``2279b. Council on Oversight of the Department of Defense Positioning, 
          Navigation, and Timing Enterprise.''.
SEC. 1604. MODIFICATION TO DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY 
STRATEGY.
    Section 2272 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as 
follows:
``Sec. 2272. Space science and technology strategy: coordination
    ``The Secretary of Defense and the Director of National 
Intelligence shall jointly develop and implement a space science and 
technology strategy and shall review and, as appropriate, revise the 
strategy biennially. Functions of the Secretary under this section 
shall be carried out jointly by the Assistant Secretary of Defense for 
Research and Engineering and the official of the Department of Defense 
designated as the Department of Defense Executive Agent for Space.''.
SEC. 1605. DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY REGARDING PURCHASE OF GLOBAL 
POSITIONING SYSTEM USER EQUIPMENT.
    Section 913 of the Ike Skelton National Defense Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2011 (10 U.S.C. 2281 note) is amended by adding at the 
end the following new subsection:
    ``(d) Limitation on Delegation of Waiver Authority.--The Secretary 
of Defense may not delegate the authority to make a waiver under 
subsection (c) to an official below the level of the Secretaries of the 
military departments or the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics.''.
SEC. 1606. ROCKET PROPULSION SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM.
    (a) Streamlined Acquisition.--Section 1604 of the Carl Levin and 
Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3623; 10 U.S.C. 2273 note) is 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (d); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (b) the following new 
    subsection:
    ``(c) Streamlined Acquisition.--In developing the rocket propulsion 
system required under subsection (a), the Secretary shall--
        ``(1) use a streamlined acquisition approach, including 
    tailored documentation and review processes, that enables the 
    effective, efficient, and expedient transition from the use of non-
    allied space launch engines to a domestic alternative for national 
    security space launches; and
        ``(2) prior to establishing such acquisition approach, 
    establish well-defined requirements with a clear acquisition 
    strategy.''.
    (b) Availability of Funds.--
        (1) In general.--In accordance with paragraph (2), of the funds 
    authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
    available for fiscal year 2016 for the rocket propulsion system 
    required by section 1604 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
    McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, the 
    Secretary of Defense may obligate or expend such funds only for the 
    development of such system, and the necessary interfaces to, or 
    integration of, the launch vehicle, to replace non-allied space 
    launch engines by 2019 as required by such section.
        (2) Rule of construction.--The funds specified in paragraph 
    (1)--
            (A) may be used for the integration of the rocket 
        propulsion system covered by such paragraph with an existing or 
        new launch vehicle; and
            (B) may not be used to develop or procure a new launch 
        vehicle or related infrastructure.
    (c) Briefing.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall provide to the 
congressional defense committee a briefing on--
        (1) the streamlined acquisition approach, requirements, and 
    acquisition strategy required under subsection (c) of section 1604 
    of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
    Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015, as added by subsection (a); 
    and
        (2) the plan for the development and fielding of a full-up 
    rocket propulsion system pursuant to such section 1604.
SEC. 1607. EXCEPTION TO THE PROHIBITION ON CONTRACTING WITH RUSSIAN 
SUPPLIERS OF ROCKET ENGINES FOR THE EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE 
PROGRAM.
    Paragraph (1) of section 1608(c) of the Carl Levin and Howard P. 
``Buck'' McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
(Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3626; 10 U.S.C. 2271 note) is amended to 
read as follows:
        ``(1) In general.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not 
    apply to any of the following:
            ``(A) The placement of orders or the exercise of options 
        under the contract numbered FA8811-13-C-0003 and awarded on 
        December 18, 2013.
            ``(B) Subject to paragraph (2), contracts awarded for the 
        procurement of property or services for space launch activities 
        that include the use of not more than a total of five rocket 
        engines designed or manufactured in the Russian Federation that 
        prior to February 1, 2014, were either fully paid for by the 
        contractor or covered by a legally binding commitment of the 
        contractor to fully pay for such rocket engines.
            ``(C) Contracts not covered under subparagraph (A) or (B) 
        that are awarded for the procurement of property or services 
        for space launch activities that include the use of not more 
        than a total of four additional rocket engines designed or 
        manufactured in the Russian Federation.''.
SEC. 1608. ACQUISITION STRATEGY FOR EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE 
PROGRAM.
    (a) Treatment of Certain Arrangement.--
        (1) Discontinuation.--The Secretary of the Air Force shall 
    discontinue the evolved expendable launch vehicle launch capability 
    arrangement, as structured as of the date of the enactment of this 
    Act, for--
            (A) existing contracts using rocket engines designed or 
        manufactured in the Russian Federation by not later than 
        December 31, 2019; and
            (B) existing contracts using domestic rocket engines by not 
        later than December 31, 2020.
        (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive paragraph (1) if the 
    Secretary--
            (A) determines that such waiver is necessary for the 
        national security interests of the United States;
            (B) notifies the congressional defense committees of such 
        waiver; and
            (C) a period of 90 days has elapsed following the date of 
        such notification.
    (b) Consistent Standards.--In accordance with section 2306a of 
title 10, United States Code, the Secretary shall--
        (1) apply consistent and appropriate standards to certified 
    evolved expendable launch vehicle providers with respect to 
    certified cost and pricing data; and
        (2) conduct the appropriate audits.
    (c) Acquisition Strategy.--In accordance with subsections (a) and 
(b) and section 2273 of title 10, United States Code, the Secretary 
shall develop and carry out a 10-year phased acquisition strategy, 
including near and long term, for the evolved expendable launch vehicle 
program.
    (d) Elements.--The acquisition strategy under subsection (c) for 
the evolved expendable launch vehicle program shall--
        (1) provide the necessary--
            (A) stability in budgeting and acquisition of capabilities;
            (B) flexibility to the Federal Government; and
            (C) procedures for fair competition; and
        (2) specifically take into account, as appropriate per 
    competition, the effect of--
            (A) contracts or agreements for launch services or launch 
        capability entered into by the Department of Defense and the 
        National Aeronautics and Space Administration with certified 
        evolved expendable launch vehicle providers;
            (B) the requirements of the Department of Defense, 
        including with respect to launch capabilities and pricing data, 
        that are met by such providers;
            (C) the cost of integrating a satellite onto a launch 
        vehicle; and
            (D) any other matters the Secretary considers appropriate.
    (e) Competition.--In awarding any contract for launch services in a 
national security space mission pursuant to a competitive acquisition, 
the evaluation shall account for the value of the evolved expendable 
launch vehicle launch capability arrangement per contract line item 
numbers in the bid price of the offeror as appropriate per launch.
    (f) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate a report on the acquisition strategy developed under 
subsection (c).
SEC. 1609. ALLOCATION OF FUNDING FOR EVOLVED EXPENDABLE LAUNCH VEHICLE 
PROGRAM.
    (a) Certification and Justification.--Together with the budget of 
the President submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code, for each of fiscal years 2017, 2018, and 2019, the 
Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees--
        (1) a certification that the cost share between the Air Force 
    and the National Reconnaissance Office for the evolved expendable 
    launch vehicle launch capability program equitably reflects the 
    appropriate allocation of funding for the Air Force and the 
    National Reconnaissance Office, respectively, based on the launch 
    schedule and national mission forecast; and
        (2) sufficient rationale to justify such cost share.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives; and
        (3) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
SEC. 1610. CONSOLIDATION OF ACQUISITION OF WIDEBAND SATELLITE 
COMMUNICATIONS.
    (a) Plan.--
        (1) Consolidation.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
    the congressional defense committees a plan for the consolidation, 
    during the one-year period beginning on the date on which the plan 
    is submitted, of the acquisition of wideband satellite 
    communications necessary to meet the requirements of the Department 
    of Defense for such communications, including with respect to 
    military and commercial satellite communications.
        (2) Elements.--The plan under paragraph (1) shall include--
            (A) an assessment of the management and overhead costs 
        relating to the acquisition of commercial satellite 
        communications services across the Department of Defense;
            (B) an estimate of--
                (i) the costs of implementing the consolidation of the 
            acquisition of such services described in paragraph (1); 
            and
                (ii) the projected savings of the consolidation;
            (C) the identification and designation of a single 
        acquisition agent pursuant to paragraph (3)(A); and
            (D) the roles and responsibilities of officials of the 
        Department, including pursuant to paragraph (3).
        (3) Single acquisition agent.--
            (A) Except as provided by subparagraph (B), under the plan 
        under paragraph (1), the Secretary of Defense shall identify 
        and designate a single senior official of the Department of 
        Defense to procure wideband satellite communications necessary 
        to meet the requirements of the Department of Defense for such 
        communications, including with respect to military and 
        commercial satellite communications.
            (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), under the plan under 
        paragraph (1), an official described in subparagraph (C) may 
        carry out the procurement of commercial wideband satellite 
        communications if the official determines that such procurement 
        is required to meet an urgent need.
            (C) An official described in this subparagraph is any of 
        the following:
                (i) A Secretary of a military department.
                (ii) The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
            Technology, and Logistics.
                (iii) The Chief Information Office of the Department of 
            Defense.
                (iv) A commander of a combatant command.
        (4) Validation.--The Director of Cost Assessment and Program 
    Evaluation shall validate the assessment required by subparagraph 
    (A) of paragraph (2) and the estimates required by subparagraph (B) 
    of such paragraph.
    (b) Implementation.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), the 
    Secretary of Defense shall complete the implementation of the plan 
    under subsection (a) by not later than one year after the date on 
    which the Secretary submits the plan under such paragraph.
        (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the implementation of the 
    plan under subsection (a) if the Secretary--
            (A) determines that--
                (i) such implementation will require significant 
            additional funding; or
                (ii) such waiver is in the interests of national 
            security; and
            (B) submits to the congressional defense committees notice 
        of such waiver and the justifications for such waiver.
SEC. 1611. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES FOR WIDE-BAND COMMUNICATIONS.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall conduct an analysis 
of alternatives for a follow-on wide-band communications system to the 
Wideband Global SATCOM System that includes space, air, and ground 
layer communications capabilities of the Department of Defense.
    (b) Report Required.--Not later than March 31, 2017, the Secretary 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
analysis conducted under subsection (a).
SEC. 1612. EXPANSION OF GOALS AND MODIFICATION OF PILOT PROGRAM FOR 
ACQUISITION OF COMMERCIAL SATELLITE COMMUNICATION SERVICES.
    (a) Carrying Out of Pilot Program.--Subsection (a) of section 1605 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3623; 10 U.S.C. 2208 note) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``may develop'' and all that 
    follows through ``funds by the Secretary'' and inserting ``shall 
    develop and carry out a pilot program''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(4) Methods.--In carrying out the pilot program under 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary may use a variety of methods 
    authorized by law to effectively and efficiently acquire commercial 
    satellite communications services, including by carrying out 
    multiple pathfinder activities under the pilot program.''.
    (b) Goals.--Subsection (b) of such section is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(5) demonstrates the potential to achieve order-of-magnitude 
    improvements in satellite communications capability.''.
    (c) Reports and Briefings.--Subsection (d) of such section is 
amended--
        (1) in the heading, by striking ``Reports.--'' and inserting 
    ``Reports and Briefings.--'';
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking 
        ``90 days'' and inserting ``270 days'';
            (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; or'' and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (C) by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:
            ``(B) a description of the appropriate metrics established 
        by the Secretary to meet the goals of the pilot program.'';
        (3) by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3);
        (4) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
    paragraph (2):
        ``(2) Briefing.--At the same time as the President submits to 
    Congress the budget pursuant to section 1105 of title 31, for each 
    of fiscal years 2017 through 2020, the Secretary shall provide to 
    the congressional defense committees a briefing on the pilot 
    program.''; and
        (5) in paragraph (3) (as redesignated by paragraph (3) of this 
    subsection)--
            (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``expanding the use of 
        working capital funds to effectively and efficiently acquire'' 
        and inserting ``the pilot program and whether the pilot program 
        effectively and efficiently acquires''; and
            (B) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking ``working capital 
        funds as described in subparagraph (A)'' and inserting ``the 
        pilot program''.
SEC. 1613. INTEGRATED POLICY TO DETER ADVERSARIES IN SPACE.
    (a) In General.--The President shall establish an interagency 
process to provide for the development of a policy to deter adversaries 
in space--
        (1) with the objectives of--
            (A) reducing risks to the United States and allies of the 
        United States in space; and
            (B) protecting and preserving the rights, access, 
        capabilities, use, and freedom of action of the United States 
        in space and the right of the United States to respond to an 
        attack in space and, if necessary, deny adversaries the use of 
        space capabilities hostile to the national interests of the 
        United States; and
        (2) that integrates the interests and responsibilities of the 
    agencies participating in the process.
    (b) Report Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the President shall submit to the Committees 
    on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a 
    report setting forth the policy developed pursuant to subsection 
    (a).
        (2) Funding restriction.--If the President has not submitted 
    the policy developed under subsection (a) and the answers to 
    Enclosure 1, regarding space control policy, of the classified 
    annex to this Act, to the Committees on Armed Services of the 
    Senate and the House of Representatives by the date required by 
    paragraph (1), an amount equal to $10,000,000 of the amount 
    authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
    Department of Defense for fiscal year 2016 to provide support 
    services to the Executive Office of the President shall be withheld 
    from obligation or expenditure until the policy and such answers 
    are submitted to such Committees.
        (3) Form of report.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified 
    annex.
SEC. 1614. PROHIBITION ON RELIANCE ON CHINA AND RUSSIA FOR SPACE-BASED 
WEATHER DATA.
    (a) Prohibition.--The Secretary of Defense shall ensure that the 
Department of Defense does not rely on, or in the future plan to rely 
on, space-based weather data provided by the Government of the People's 
Republic of China, the Government of the Russian Federation, or an 
entity owned or controlled by either such government for national 
security purposes.
    (b) Certification.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a certification that the Secretary is in compliance 
with the prohibition under subsection (a).
SEC. 1615. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR WEATHER SATELLITE 
FOLLOW-ON SYSTEM.
    (a) Limitation.--Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this 
Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for research, 
development, test, and evaluation, Air Force, for the weather satellite 
follow-on system, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or expended 
until the date on which--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense provides to the congressional 
    defense committees a briefing on the plan developed under 
    subsection (b); and
        (2) the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff certifies to the 
    congressional defense committees that such plan will--
            (A) meet the requirements of the Department of Defense for 
        cloud characterization and theater weather imagery; and
            (B) not negatively affect the commanders of the combatant 
        commands.
    (b) Plan Required.--The Secretary shall develop a plan to address 
the requirements of the Department of Defense for cloud 
characterization and theater weather imagery.
SEC. 1616. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR THE DEFENSE 
METEOROLOGICAL SATELLITE PROGRAM.
    (a) Limitation.--
        (1) Fiscal year 2016 funds.--None of the funds authorized to be 
    appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal 
    year 2016 for the Defense Meteorological Satellite program or for 
    the launch of Defense Meteorological Satellite program satellite 
    #20 (in this section referred to as ``DMSP20'') may be obligated or 
    expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense and the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the certification described in 
    subsection (b).
        (2) Remaining fiscal year 2015 funds.--Of the funds authorized 
    to be appropriated or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2015 
    for the Defense Meteorological Satellite program or the launch of 
    DMSP20 that remain available for obligation as of the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, not more than 50 percent may be obligated or 
    expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense and the 
    Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the certification described in 
    subsection (b).
    (b) Certification.--The certification described in this subsection 
is a certification that--
        (1) the Joint Requirements Oversight Council has conducted a 
    recent review and certification of the space-based environmental 
    monitoring requirements while taking into consideration the changes 
    in international allied plans and the feedback of the military 
    departments and Defense Agencies (as defined in section 101(a) of 
    title 10, United States Code);
        (2) relying on civil and international contributions to meet 
    space-based environmental monitoring requirements is insufficient 
    or is a risk to national security and launching DMSP20 will meet 
    those requirements;
        (3) launching DMSP20 is the most affordable solution to meeting 
    requirements validated by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council; 
    and
        (4) nonmaterial solutions within the Department of Defense, the 
    National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and the National 
    Aeronautics and Space Administration are incapable of meeting the 
    cloud characterization and theater weather requirements validated 
    by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council.
    (c) Comparative Cost and Capability Assessment.--If the Secretary 
and the Chairman determine that a material solution is required to meet 
the cloud characterization and theater weather requirements validated 
by the Joint Requirements Oversight Council, the Secretary and the 
Chairman shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a 
cost and capability assessment that compares the cost of meeting those 
requirements with DMSP20 and with an alternate material solution that 
includes electro-optical infrared weather imaging or other comparable 
solutions.
SEC. 1617. STREAMLINE OF COMMERCIAL SPACE LAUNCH ACTIVITIES.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that 
eliminating duplicative requirements and approvals for commercial 
launch and reentry operations will promote and encourage the 
development of the commercial space sector.
    (b) Reaffirmation of Policy.--Congress reaffirms that the Secretary 
of Transportation, in overseeing and coordinating commercial launch and 
reentry operations, should--
        (1) promote commercial space launches and reentries by the 
    private sector;
        (2) facilitate Government, State, and private sector 
    involvement in enhancing United States launch sites and facilities;
        (3) protect public health and safety, safety of property, 
    national security interests, and foreign policy interests of the 
    United States; and
        (4) consult with the head of another executive agency, 
    including the Secretary of Defense or the Administrator of the 
    National Aeronautics and Space Administration, as necessary to 
    provide consistent application of licensing requirements under 
    chapter 509 of title 51, United States Code.
    (c) Requirements.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation under section 
    50918 of title 51, United States Code, and subject to section 
    50905(b)(2)(C) of that title, shall consult with the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
    Administration, and the heads of other executive agencies, as 
    appropriate--
            (A) to identify all requirements that are imposed to 
        protect the public health and safety, safety of property, 
        national security interests, and foreign policy interests of 
        the United States relevant to any commercial launch of a launch 
        vehicle or commercial reentry of a reentry vehicle; and
            (B) to evaluate the requirements identified in subparagraph 
        (A) and, in coordination with the licensee or transferee and 
        the heads of the relevant executive agencies--
                (i) determine whether the satisfaction of a requirement 
            of one agency could result in the satisfaction of a 
            requirement of another agency; and
                (ii) resolve any inconsistencies and remove any 
            outmoded or duplicative requirements or approvals of the 
            Federal Government relevant to any commercial launch of a 
            launch vehicle or commercial reentry of a reentry vehicle.
        (2) Reports.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
    enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the Secretary 
    of Transportation determines no outmoded or duplicative 
    requirements or approvals of the Federal Government exist, the 
    Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of 
    Defense, the Administrator of the National Aeronautics and Space 
    Administration, the commercial space sector, and the heads of other 
    executive agencies, as appropriate, shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees a report that includes the following:
            (A) A description of the process for the application for 
        and approval of a permit or license under chapter 509 of title 
        51, United States Code, for the commercial launch of a launch 
        vehicle or commercial reentry of a reentry vehicle, including 
        the identification of--
                (i) any unique requirements for operating on a United 
            States Government launch site, reentry site, or launch 
            property; and
                (ii) any inconsistent, outmoded, or duplicative 
            requirements or approvals.
            (B) A description of current efforts, if any, to coordinate 
        and work across executive agencies to define interagency 
        processes and procedures for sharing information, avoiding 
        duplication of effort, and resolving common agency 
        requirements.
            (C) Recommendations for legislation that may further--
                (i) streamline requirements in order to improve 
            efficiency, reduce unnecessary costs, resolve 
            inconsistencies, remove duplication, and minimize 
            unwarranted constraints; and
                (ii) consolidate or modify requirements across affected 
            agencies into a single application set that satisfies the 
            requirements identified in paragraph (1)(A).
        (3) Definitions.--For purposes of this subsection--
            (A) any applicable definitions set forth in section 50902 
        of title 51, United States Code, shall apply;
            (B) the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' 
        means--
                (i) the congressional defense committees;
                (ii) the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
            Transportation of the Senate;
                (iii) the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology 
            of the House of Representatives; and
                (iv) the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure 
            of the House of Representatives;
            (C) the terms ``launch'', ``reenter'', and ``reentry'' 
        include landing of a launch vehicle or reentry vehicle; and
            (D) the terms ``United States Government launch site'' and 
        ``United States Government reentry site'' include any necessary 
        facility, at that location, that is commercially operated on 
        United States Government property.
SEC. 1618. PLAN ON FULL INTEGRATION AND EXPLOITATION OF OVERHEAD 
PERSISTENT INFRARED CAPABILITY.
    (a) Plan.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Commander of the United States Strategic Command and 
the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation, in coordination 
with the Director of National Intelligence, shall jointly submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a plan for the integration of 
overhead persistent infrared capabilities to support the missions 
specified in subsection (b)(1).
    (b) Elements.--The plan under subsection (a) shall--
        (1) ensure that all overhead persistent infrared capabilities 
    of the United States, including such capabilities that are planned 
    to be developed, are integrated to allow for such capabilities to 
    be exploited to support the requirements of the missions of the 
    Department of Defense relating to--
            (A) strategic and theater missile warning;
            (B) ballistic and cruise missile defense, including with 
        respect to missile tracking, fire control, and kill assessment;
            (C) technical intelligence supporting missile warning;
            (D) battlespace awareness;
            (E) other technical intelligence;
            (F) civil and environmental missions, including with 
        respect to the collection of weather data; and
            (G) battle damage assessments; and
        (2) establish clear benchmarks by which to establish 
    acquisition plans, manning, and budget requirements.
    (c) Annual Determination.--The Secretary of Defense shall include, 
together with, or not later than 30 days after, the budget 
justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget 
of the Department of Defense for a fiscal year (as submitted with the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code), a written determination of how the plan under subsection 
(a) is being implemented.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees; and
        (2) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1619. OPTIONS FOR RAPID SPACE RECONSTITUTION.
    (a) Evaluation.--The Secretary of Defense shall evaluate options 
for the use of current assets of the Department of Defense for the 
purpose of rapid reconstitution of critical space-based warfighter 
enabling capabilities.
    (b) Briefing.--Not later than March 31, 2016, the Secretary shall 
provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on the 
evaluation conducted under subsection (a), including development 
timelines, a test plan, and technology readiness levels of key systems 
and technologies.
SEC. 1620. EVALUATION OF EXPLOITATION OF SPACE-BASED INFRARED SYSTEM 
AGAINST ADDITIONAL THREATS.
    (a) Evaluation.--The Commander of the United States Strategic 
Command, in cooperation with the Secretary of the Navy, the Secretary 
of the Air Force, the Director of National Intelligence, and the 
Commander of the United States Northern Command, shall conduct an 
evaluation of space-based infrared systems to detect, track, and 
target, or to develop the capability to detect, track, and target, the 
full range of threats to the United States, deployed members of the 
Armed Forces, and allies of the United States.
    (b) Submission.--Not later than December 31, 2016, the Commander of 
the United States Strategic Command shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees, the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives, and the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate the evaluation under subsection (a).
SEC. 1621. QUARTERLY REPORTS ON GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM III SPACE 
SEGMENT, GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM OPERATIONAL CONTROL SEGMENT, AND 
MILITARY GLOBAL POSITIONING SYSTEM USER EQUIPMENT ACQUISITION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and every 90 days thereafter, the Secretary of 
the Air Force shall submit to the Comptroller General of the United 
States a report and supporting documentation on the Global Positioning 
System III space segment, the Global Positioning System operational 
control segment, and the Military Global Positioning System user 
equipment acquisition programs.
    (b) Elements.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
include, with respect to an acquisition program specified in that 
subsection, the following:
        (1) A statement of the status of the program with respect to 
    cost, schedule, and performance.
        (2) A description of any changes to the requirements of the 
    program.
        (3) A description of any technical risks impacting the cost, 
    schedule, and performance of the program.
        (4) An assessment of how such risks are to be addressed and the 
    costs associated with such risks.
        (5) An assessment of the extent to which the segments of the 
    program are synchronized.
    (c) Briefings by Comptroller General.--The Comptroller General 
shall provide to the congressional defense committees a briefing on a 
report submitted under subsection (a)--
        (1) in the case of the first such report, not later than 30 
    days after receiving that report; and
        (2) as the Comptroller General considers appropriate 
    thereafter.
    (d) Termination.--The requirement under subsection (a) shall 
terminate with respect to an acquisition program specified in that 
subsection on the date on which that program reaches initial 
operational capability.
SEC. 1622. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON MISSILE DEFENSE SENSORS IN SPACE.
    It is the sense of Congress that a robust multi-mission space 
sensor network will be vital to ensuring a strong missile defense 
system.

  Subtitle B--Defense Intelligence and Intelligence-Related Activities

SEC. 1631. EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR OPEN-SOURCE INTELLIGENCE TOOLS.
    (a) Executive Agent.--Subchapter I of chapter 21 of title 10, 
United States Code, as amended by section 1083, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 430b. Executive agent for open-source intelligence tools
    ``(a) Designation.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the Secretary of 
Defense shall designate a senior official of the Department of Defense 
to serve as the executive agent for the Department for open-source 
intelligence tools.
    ``(b) Roles, Responsibilities, and Authorities.-- (1) Not later 
than July 1, 2016, in accordance with Directive 5101.1, the Secretary 
shall prescribe the roles, responsibilities, and authorities of the 
executive agent designated under subsection (a).
    ``(2) The roles and responsibilities of the executive agent 
designated under subsection (a) shall include the following:
        ``(A) Developing and maintaining a comprehensive list of open-
    source intelligence tools and technical standards.
        ``(B) Establishing priorities for the development, acquisition, 
    and integration of open-source intelligence tools into the 
    intelligence enterprise, and other command and control systems as 
    needed.
        ``(C) Certifying all open-source intelligence tools with 
    respect to compliance with the standards required by the framework 
    and guidance for the Intelligence Community Information Technology 
    Enterprise, the Defense Intelligence Information Enterprise, and 
    the Joint Information Environment.
        ``(D) Assessing and making recommendations regarding the 
    protection of privacy in the acquisition, analysis, and 
    dissemination of open-source information available around the 
    world.
        ``(E) Performing such other assessments or analyses as the 
    Secretary considers appropriate.
    ``(c) Support Within Department of Defense.--In accordance with 
Directive 5101.1, the Secretary shall ensure that the military 
departments, the Defense Agencies, and other elements of the Department 
of Defense provide the executive agent designated under subsection (a) 
with the appropriate support and resources needed to perform the roles, 
responsibilities, and authorities of the executive agent.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `Directive 5101.1' means Department of Defense 
    Directive 5101.1, or any successor directive relating to the 
    responsibilities of an executive agent of the Department of 
    Defense.
        ``(2) The term `executive agent' has the meaning given the term 
    `DoD Executive Agent' in Directive 5101.1.
        ``(3) The term `open-source intelligence tools' means tools for 
    the systematic collection, processing, and analysis of publicly 
    available information for known or anticipated intelligence 
    requirements.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 430a, as added by section 1083, the following new item:

``430b. Executive agent for open-source intelligence tools.''.
SEC. 1632. WAIVER AND CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS RELATED 
TO FACILITIES FOR INTELLIGENCE COLLECTION OR FOR SPECIAL OPERATIONS 
ABROAD.
    (a) Addition of Congressional Notification Requirement.--Section 
2682(c) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by inserting ``(1)'' before ``The Secretary of Defense''; 
    and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:
    ``(2) Not later than 48 hours after using the waiver authority 
under paragraph (1) for any facility for intelligence collection 
conducted under the authorities of the Department of Defense or special 
operations activity, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees written notification of the use of 
the authority, including the justification for the waiver and the 
estimated cost of the project for which the waiver applies.
    ``(3) In this subsection, the term `appropriate congressional 
committees' means the following:
        ``(A) With respect to a waiver regarding special operations 
    activities, the congressional defense committees.
        ``(B) With respect to a waiver regarding intelligence 
    collection conducted under the authorities of the Department of 
    Defense--
            ``(i) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(ii) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate 
        and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
        of Representatives.''.
    (b) Codification of Sunset Provision.--
        (1) Codification.--Section 2682(c) of title 10, United States 
    Code, is further amended by inserting after paragraph (3), as added 
    by subsection (a)(2), the following new paragraph:
    ``(4) The waiver authority provided by paragraph (1) expires 
December 31, 2020.''.
        (2) Conforming repeal.--Subsection (b) of section 926 of the 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 
    112-81; 125 Stat. 1541; 10 U.S.C. 2682 note) is repealed.
SEC. 1633. PROHIBITION ON NATIONAL INTELLIGENCE PROGRAM CONSOLIDATION.
    (a) Prohibition.--No amounts authorized to be appropriated or 
otherwise made available to the Department of Defense may be used 
during the period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act 
and ending on December 31, 2016, to execute--
        (1) the separation of the National Intelligence Program budget 
    from the Department of Defense budget;
        (2) the consolidation of the National Intelligence Program 
    budget within the Department of Defense budget; or
        (3) the establishment of a new appropriations account or 
    appropriations account structure for the National Intelligence 
    Program budget.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) National intelligence program.--The term ``National 
    Intelligence Program'' has the meaning given the term in section 3 
    of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
        (2) National intelligence program budget.--The term ``National 
    Intelligence Program budget'' means the portions of the Department 
    of Defense budget designated as part of the National Intelligence 
    Program.
SEC. 1634. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR OFFICE OF THE UNDER 
SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR INTELLIGENCE.
    Of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
made available for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense for 
the Office of the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence, not more 
than 75 percent may be obligated or expended for such Office until the 
Secretary of Defense identifies the intelligence gaps and establishes 
the written policy required by section 922 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
828).
SEC. 1635. DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE NEEDS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees and the congressional intelligence 
committees a report on how the Director ensures that the National 
Intelligence Program budgets for the elements of the intelligence 
community that are within the Department of Defense are adequate to 
satisfy the national intelligence needs of the Department as required 
under section 102A(p) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3024(p)). Such report shall include a description of how the Director 
incorporates the needs of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and 
the commanders of the unified and specified commands into the metrics 
used to evaluate the performance of the elements of the intelligence 
community that are within the Department of Defense in conducting 
intelligence activities funded under the National Intelligence Program.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section, the terms ``congressional 
intelligence committees'', ``intelligence community'', and ``National 
Intelligence Program'' have the meanings given such terms in section 3 
of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003).
SEC. 1636. REPORT ON MANAGEMENT OF CERTAIN PROGRAMS OF DEFENSE 
INTELLIGENCE ELEMENTS.
    (a) Report.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary of Defense for Intelligence 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on 
the management of science and technology research and development 
programs and foreign materiel exploitation programs of Defense 
intelligence elements.
    (b) Matters Included.--The report under subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        (1) An assessment of the management of each Defense 
    intelligence element that is responsible for work relating to the 
    programs described in subsection (a), including with respect to the 
    policies, procedures, and organizational structures of such element 
    relating to the management and coordination of such work across 
    such elements.
        (2) Recommendations to improve the coordination and 
    organization of such elements.
        (3) Identification of options for realigning such elements 
    within the Department of Defense to better meet the needs of the 
    Department and reduce unnecessary overhead.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
        House of Representatives; and
            (C) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.
        (2) The term ``Defense intelligence element'' has the meaning 
    given that term in section 429(e) of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 1637. REPORT ON AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONTRIBUTIONS TO THE RQ-4 
GLOBAL HAWK MISSION.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, in coordination 
with the Chief of Staff of the Air Force and the Chief of the National 
Guard Bureau, shall submit to Congress a report on the feasibility of 
using the Air National Guard in association with the active duty Air 
Force to operate and maintain the RQ-4 Global Hawk.
    (b) Contents.--The report required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        (1) An assessment of the costs, training requirements, and 
    personnel required to create an association for the Global Hawk 
    mission consisting of members of the Air Force serving on active 
    duty and members of the Air National Guard.
        (2) The capacity of the Air National Guard to support an 
    association described in paragraph (1).
SEC. 1638. GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE REVIEW OF INTELLIGENCE 
INPUT TO THE DEFENSE ACQUISITION PROCESS.
    (a) Review.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
carry out a comprehensive review of the processes and procedures for 
the integration of intelligence into the defense acquisition process, 
consistent with the provision of classified information, and 
intelligence sources and methods.
    (b) Requirements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall--
        (1) identify processes and procedures for the integration of 
    intelligence into the decision process, including with respect to 
    the staffing and training of Defense intelligence personnel 
    assigned to program offices, for the acquisition of weapon systems 
    from initial requirements through the milestones process and upon 
    final delivery; and
        (2) include a review of processes and procedures for--
            (A) the integration of intelligence on foreign capabilities 
        into the acquisition process from initial requirement through 
        deployment;
            (B) identifying opportunities for weapons systems to 
        collect intelligence, without regard to whether that is the 
        primary mission of such systems, and the plans for exploiting 
        the collection of such intelligence; and
            (C) assessing the requirements weapon systems will place on 
        the Defense Intelligence Enterprise once the weapons systems 
        are deployed.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees, the Select Committee on Intelligence 
of the Senate, and the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of 
the House of Representatives a report containing the results of the 
review required by subsection (a).

                 Subtitle C--Cyberspace-Related Matters

SEC. 1641. CODIFICATION AND ADDITION OF LIABILITY PROTECTIONS RELATING 
TO REPORTING ON CYBER INCIDENTS OR PENETRATIONS OF NETWORKS AND 
INFORMATION SYSTEMS OF CERTAIN CONTRACTORS.
    (a) Codification and Amendment.--Section 941 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1889; 10 U.S.C. 2224 note) is transferred to chapter 19 of title 
10, United States Code, inserted so as to appear after section 392, 
redesignated as section 393, and amended--
        (1) by amending the section heading to read as follows:
``Sec. 393. Reporting on penetrations of networks and information 
   systems of certain contractors'';
        (2) by striking paragraph (3) of subsection (c) and inserting 
    the following new paragraph (3):
        ``(3) Dissemination of information.--The procedures established 
    pursuant to subsection (a) shall limit the dissemination of 
    information obtained or derived through such procedures to 
    entities--
            ``(A) with missions that may be affected by such 
        information;
            ``(B) that may be called upon to assist in the diagnosis, 
        detection, or mitigation of cyber incidents;
            ``(C) that conduct counterintelligence or law enforcement 
        investigations; or
            ``(D) for national security purposes, including cyber 
        situational awareness and defense purposes.''; and
        (3) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Protection From Liability of Cleared Defense Contractors.--
(1) No cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any court against 
any cleared defense contractor, and such action shall be promptly 
dismissed, for compliance with this section that is conducted in 
accordance with the procedures established pursuant to subsection (a).
    ``(2)(A) Nothing in this section shall be construed--
        ``(i) to require dismissal of a cause of action against a 
    cleared defense contractor that has engaged in willful misconduct 
    in the course of complying with the procedures established pursuant 
    to subsection (a); or
        ``(ii) to undermine or limit the availability of otherwise 
    applicable common law or statutory defenses.
    ``(B) In any action claiming that paragraph (1) does not apply due 
to willful misconduct described in subparagraph (A), the plaintiff 
shall have the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence the 
willful misconduct by each cleared defense contractor subject to such 
claim and that such willful misconduct proximately caused injury to the 
plaintiff.
    ``(C) In this subsection, the term `willful misconduct' means an 
act or omission that is taken--
        ``(i) intentionally to achieve a wrongful purpose;
        ``(ii) knowingly without legal or factual justification; and
        ``(iii) in disregard of a known or obvious risk that is so 
    great as to make it highly probable that the harm will outweigh the 
    benefit.''.
    (b) Addition of Liability Protections for Reporting on Cyber 
Incidents.--Section 391 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (c) the following new 
    subsection (d):
    ``(d) Protection From Liability of Operationally Critical 
Contractors.--(1) No cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any 
court against any operationally critical contractor, and such action 
shall be promptly dismissed, for compliance with this section that is 
conducted in accordance with procedures established pursuant to 
subsection (b).
    ``(2)(A) Nothing in this section shall be construed--
        ``(i) to require dismissal of a cause of action against an 
    operationally critical contractor that has engaged in willful 
    misconduct in the course of complying with the procedures 
    established pursuant to subsection (b); or
        ``(ii) to undermine or limit the availability of otherwise 
    applicable common law or statutory defenses.
    ``(B) In any action claiming that paragraph (1) does not apply due 
to willful misconduct described in subparagraph (A), the plaintiff 
shall have the burden of proving by clear and convincing evidence the 
willful misconduct by each operationally critical contractor subject to 
such claim and that such willful misconduct proximately caused injury 
to the plaintiff.
    ``(C) In this subsection, the term `willful misconduct' means an 
act or omission that is taken--
        ``(i) intentionally to achieve a wrongful purpose;
        ``(ii) knowingly without legal or factual justification; and
        ``(iii) in disregard of a known or obvious risk that is so 
    great as to make it highly probable that the harm will outweigh the 
    benefit.''.
    (c) Conforming and Technical Amendments.--
        (1) Section 391 of title 10, United States Code, is amended in 
    subsection (a) by striking ``and with section 941 of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (10 U.S.C. 2224 
    note)'' and inserting ``and section 393 of this title''.
        (2) The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 19 of 
    such title is amended--
            (A) by amending the item relating to section 391 to read as 
        follows:

``391. Reporting on cyber incidents with respect to networks and 
          information systems of operationally critical contractors and 
          certain other contractors.''; and

            (B) by adding at the end the following new item:

``393. Reporting on penetrations of networks and information systems of 
          certain contractors.''.
SEC. 1642. AUTHORIZATION OF MILITARY CYBER OPERATIONS.
    (a) In General.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 130g. Authorities concerning military cyber operations
    ``The Secretary of Defense shall develop, prepare, and coordinate; 
make ready all armed forces for purposes of; and, when appropriately 
authorized to do so, conduct, a military cyber operation in response to 
malicious cyber activity carried out against the United States or a 
United States person by a foreign power (as such terms are defined in 
section 101 of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 
U.S.C. 1801)).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 3 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following 
new item:

``130g. Authorities concerning military cyber operations.''.
SEC. 1643. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS PENDING THE SUBMISSION 
OF INTEGRATED POLICY TO DETER ADVERSARIES IN CYBERSPACE.
    Until the President submits to the congressional defense committees 
the report required by section 941 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
837), $10,000,000 of the unobligated balance of the amounts 
appropriated or otherwise made available to the Department of Defense 
to provide support services to the Executive Office of the President 
may not be obligated or expended.
SEC. 1644. AUTHORIZATION FOR PROCUREMENT OF RELOCATABLE SENSITIVE 
COMPARTMENTED INFORMATION FACILITY.
    Of the unobligated amounts appropriated or otherwise made available 
in fiscal years 2014 and 2015 for procurement for the Army, not more 
than $10,600,000 may be used for the procurement of a relocatable 
Sensitive Compartmented Information Facility for the Cyber Center of 
Excellence at Fort Gordon, Georgia, as described in the reprogramming 
action prior approval request submitted by the Under Secretary of 
Defense (Comptroller) to Congress on February 6, 2015.
SEC. 1645. DESIGNATION OF MILITARY DEPARTMENT ENTITY RESPONSIBLE FOR 
ACQUISITION OF CRITICAL CYBER CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Designation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall designate an 
    entity within a military department to be responsible for the 
    acquisition of each critical cyber capability described in 
    paragraph (2).
        (2) Critical cyber capabilities described.--The critical cyber 
    capabilities described in this paragraph are the cyber capabilities 
    that the Secretary considers critical to the mission of the 
    Department of Defense, including the following:
            (A) The Unified Platform described in the Department of 
        Defense document titled ``The Department of Defense Cyber 
        Strategy'' dated April 15, 2015.
            (B) A persistent cyber training environment.
            (C) A cyber situational awareness and battle management 
        system.
    (b) Report.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report containing the 
    information described in paragraph (2).
        (2) Contents.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following with respect to the critical cyber capabilities described 
    in subsection (a)(2):
            (A) Identification of each critical cyber capability and 
        the entity of a military department responsible for the 
        acquisition of the capability.
            (B) Estimates of the funding requirements and acquisition 
        timelines for each critical cyber capability.
            (C) An explanation of whether critical cyber capabilities 
        could be acquired more quickly with changes to acquisition 
        authorities.
            (D) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislation or administrative action to improve the acquisition 
        of, or to acquire more quickly, the critical cyber capabilities 
        for which designations are made under subsection (a).
SEC. 1646. ASSESSMENT OF CAPABILITIES OF UNITED STATES CYBER COMMAND TO 
DEFEND THE UNITED STATES FROM CYBER ATTACKS.
    (a) War Games.--The Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, in 
consultation with the Principal Cyber Advisor, shall conduct a series 
of war games through the warfighting analysis division of the Force 
Structure, Resources, and Assessment Directorate to assess the 
strategy, assumptions, and capabilities of the United States Cyber 
Command to prevent large-scale cyber attacks, by foreign powers with 
cyber attack capabilities comparable to the capabilities that China, 
Iran, North Korea, and Russia are expected to achieve in the years 2020 
and 2025, from reaching United States targets.
    (b) Findings.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall 
convey to the congressional defense committees the findings of the 
Chairman with respect to the war games conducted under subsection (a).
    (c) Foreign Power Defined.--In this section, the term ``foreign 
power'' has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Foreign 
Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801).
SEC. 1647. EVALUATION OF CYBER VULNERABILITIES OF MAJOR WEAPON SYSTEMS 
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE.
    (a) Evaluation Required.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Defense shall, in accordance 
    with the plan under subsection (b), complete an evaluation of the 
    cyber vulnerabilities of each major weapon system of the Department 
    of Defense by not later than December 31, 2019.
        (2) Exception.--The Secretary may waive the requirement of 
    paragraph (1) with respect to a weapon system or complete the 
    evaluation of a weapon system required by such paragraph after the 
    date specified in such paragraph if the Secretary certifies to the 
    congressional defense committees before that date that all known 
    cyber vulnerabilities in the weapon system have minimal 
    consequences for the capability of the weapon system to meet 
    operational requirements or otherwise satisfy mission requirements.
    (b) Plan for Evaluation.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the plan of the Secretary for the 
    evaluations of major weapon systems under subsection (a), including 
    an identification of each of the weapon systems to be evaluated and 
    an estimate of the funding required to conduct the evaluations.
        (2) Priority in evaluations.--The plan under paragraph (1) 
    shall accord a priority among evaluations based on the criticality 
    of major weapon systems, as determined by the Chairman of the Joint 
    Chiefs of Staff based on an assessment of employment of forces and 
    threats.
        (3) Integration with other efforts.--The plan under paragraph 
    (1) shall build upon existing efforts regarding the identification 
    and mitigation of cyber vulnerabilities of major weapon systems, 
    and shall not duplicate similar ongoing efforts such as Task Force 
    Cyber Awakening of the Navy or Task Force Cyber Secure of the Air 
    Force.
    (c) Status on Progress.--The Secretary shall inform the 
congressional defense committees of the activities undertaken in the 
evaluation of major weapon systems under this section as part of the 
quarterly cyber operations briefings under section 484 of title 10, 
United States Code.
    (d) Risk Mitigation Strategies.--As part of the evaluation of cyber 
vulnerabilities of major weapon systems of the Department under this 
section, the Secretary shall develop strategies for mitigating the 
risks of cyber vulnerabilities identified in the course of such 
evaluations.
    (e) Authorization of Appropriations.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2016 for research, development, test, and evaluation, Defense-wide, not 
more than $200,000,000 shall be available to the Secretary to conduct 
the evaluations under subsection (a)(1).
SEC. 1648. COMPREHENSIVE PLAN AND BIENNIAL EXERCISES ON RESPONDING TO 
CYBER ATTACKS.
    (a) Comprehensive Plan of Department of Defense to Support Civil 
Authorities in Response to Cyber Attacks by Foreign Powers.--
        (1) Plan required.--
            (A) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
        develop a comprehensive plan for the United States Cyber 
        Command to support civil authorities in responding to cyber 
        attacks by foreign powers (as defined in section 101 of the 
        Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Act of 1978 (50 U.S.C. 1801)) 
        against the United States or a United States person.
            (B) Elements.--The plan required by subparagraph (A) shall 
        include the following:
                (i) A plan for internal Department of Defense 
            collective training activities that are integrated with 
            exercises conducted with other agencies and State and local 
            governments.
                (ii) Plans for coordination with the heads of other 
            Federal agencies and State and local governments pursuant 
            to the exercises required under clause (i).
                (iii) A list of any other exercises previously 
            conducted that are used in the formulation of the plan 
            required by subparagraph (A), such as Operation Noble 
            Eagle.
                (iv) Descriptions of the roles, responsibilities, and 
            expectations of Federal, State, and local authorities as 
            the Secretary understands them.
                (v) Descriptions of the roles, responsibilities, and 
            expectations of the active components and reserve 
            components of the Armed Forces.
                (vi) A description of such legislative and 
            administrative action as may be necessary to carry out the 
            plan required by subparagraph (A).
        (2) Comptroller general of the united states review of plan.--
    The Comptroller General of the United States shall review the plan 
    developed under paragraph (1)(A).
    (b) Biennial Exercises on Responding to Cyber Attacks Against 
Critical Infrastructure.--
        (1) Biennial exercises required.--Not less frequently than once 
    every two years until the date that is six years after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall, in 
    coordination with the Secretary of Homeland Security, the Director 
    of National Intelligence, the Director of the Federal Bureau of 
    Investigation, and the heads of the critical infrastructure sector-
    specific agencies designated under Presidential Policy Directive-21 
    (titled ``Critical Infrastructure Security Resilience'' and dated 
    February 12, 2013) and in consultation with Governors of the States 
    and the owners and operators of critical infrastructure, organize 
    and execute one or more exercises based on scenarios in which--
            (A) critical infrastructure of the United States is 
        attacked through cyberspace; and
            (B) the President directs the Secretary of Defense to--
                (i) defend the United States; and
                (ii) provide support to civil authorities in responding 
            to and recovering from cyber attacks, while exercising any 
            guidance derived from the plan developed under subsection 
            (a) or any subsequent updates to that plan.
        (2) Purposes.--The purposes of the exercises required by 
    paragraph (1) are as follows:
            (A) To exercise command and control, coordination, 
        communications, and information sharing capabilities under the 
        stressing conditions of an ongoing cyber attack.
            (B) To identify gaps and problems that require new enhanced 
        training, capabilities, procedures, or authorities.
            (C) To identify--
                (i) interdependencies;
                (ii) strengths that should be leveraged; and
                (iii) weaknesses that need to be mitigated.
        (3) Requirement for variation of assumptions and conditions.--
    In conducting the exercises required by paragraph (1), the 
    Secretary shall ensure that there is an appropriate degree of 
    variation from exercise to exercise of the following:
            (A) The size, scope, duration, and sophistication of the 
        cyber attacks.
            (B) The degree of warning and knowledge that is available 
        to the Department of Defense about the attack, the means used 
        in the attack, and the degree of delegation of authority from 
        the President to react, including with pre-planned responses.
            (C) The effectiveness of the National Mission Force of the 
        United States Cyber Command in preempting and defeating the 
        attack.
            (D) The effectiveness of the attacks on critical 
        infrastructure in general and particularly in specific industry 
        sectors.
            (E) The effectiveness of resilience and recovery 
        mechanisms.
        (4) Cost-sharing agreements.--The Secretary shall coordinate 
    with those with whom the Secretary is required to coordinate under 
    paragraph (1) to develop equitable cost-sharing agreements to 
    defray the expenses of the exercises required by paragraph (1).
SEC. 1649. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON REVIEWING AND CONSIDERING FINDINGS AND 
RECOMMENDATIONS OF COUNCIL OF GOVERNORS ON CYBER CAPABILITIES OF THE 
ARMED FORCES.
    It is the sense of Congress that the Secretary of Defense should 
review and consider any findings and recommendations of the Council of 
Governors established under section 1822 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-181; 122 Stat. 500; 32 U.S.C. 
104 note) pertaining to cyber mission force requirements and any 
proposed reductions in and synchronization of the cyber capabilities of 
active or reserve components of the Armed Forces.

                       Subtitle D--Nuclear Forces

SEC. 1651. ASSESSMENT OF THREATS TO NATIONAL LEADERSHIP COMMAND, 
CONTROL, AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEM.
    Section 171a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (f), (g), and (h), as 
    subsections (g), (h), and (i), respectively;
        (2) by inserting after subsection (e) the following new 
    subsection (f):
    ``(f) Collection of Assessments on Certain Threats.--The Council 
shall collect and assess (consistent with the provision of classified 
information and intelligence sources and methods) all reports and 
assessments otherwise conducted by the intelligence community (as 
defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
3003(4)) regarding foreign threats, including cyber threats, to the 
command, control, and communications system for the national leadership 
of the United States and the vulnerabilities of such system to such 
threats.''; and
        (3) in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following new 
    paragraph:
        ``(5) An assessment of the threats and vulnerabilities 
    described in the reports and assessments collected under subsection 
    (f) during the previous year, including any plans to address such 
    threats and vulnerabilities.''.
SEC. 1652. ORGANIZATION OF NUCLEAR DETERRENCE FUNCTIONS OF THE AIR 
FORCE.
    (a) Oversight of Nuclear Deterrence Mission.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 805 of title 10, United States Code, 
    is amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``Sec. 8040. Oversight of nuclear deterrence mission
    ``(a) Oversight of Nuclear Deterrence Mission.--Subject to the 
authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of the Air Force, 
the Chief of Staff of the Air Force shall be responsible for overseeing 
the safety, security, reliability, effectiveness, and credibility of 
the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force.
    ``(b) Deputy Chief of Staff.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the 
Chief of Staff shall designate a Deputy Chief of Staff to carry out the 
following duties:
        ``(1) Provide direction, guidance, integration, and advocacy 
    regarding the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force.
        ``(2) Conduct monitoring and oversight activities regarding the 
    safety, security, reliability, effectiveness, and credibility of 
    the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force.
        ``(3) Conduct periodic comprehensive assessments of all aspects 
    of the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force and provide such 
    assessments to the Secretary of the Air Force and the Chief of 
    Staff of the Air Force.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter is amended by adding after the item relating to 
    section 8039 the following new item:

``8040. Oversight of nuclear deterrence mission.''.

        (3) Conforming amendment.--Section 8033(d)(5) of such title is 
    amended by inserting before the semicolon the following: ``, 
    including pursuant to section 8040 of this title''.
    (d) Consolidation.--
        (1) Sense of congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
    Secretary of the Air Force should--
            (A) consolidate, to the extent the Secretary determines 
        appropriate, under a major command commanded by a single 
        general officer the responsibility, authority, accountability, 
        and resources for carrying out all aspects of the nuclear 
        deterrence mission of the Air Force, including with respect to 
        nuclear weapons, nuclear weapon delivery systems, and the 
        nuclear command, control, and communications system; and
            (B) issue, including through the Chief of Staff of the Air 
        Force and other elements of the Air Force, guidance, 
        directives, and orders to carry out such consolidation.
        (2) Report.--Not later than February 28, 2016, the Secretary of 
    the Air Force shall submit to the congressional defense committees 
    a report on any actions taken or planned to be taken by the 
    Secretary to reorganize, streamline, and clarify the 
    responsibilities, authorities, accountabilities, and resources for 
    carrying out the nuclear deterrence mission of the Air Force. Such 
    report shall include the following:
            (A) How elements of the Air Force will coordinate and 
        integrate to carry out such mission.
            (B) What guidance, directives, and orders have been or will 
        be issued by the Secretary, the Chief of Staff of the Air 
        Force, or other elements of the Air Force to ensure roles, 
        responsibilities, authorities, and accountabilities are clear 
        and institutionalized with respect to such mission.
SEC. 1653. PROCUREMENT AUTHORITY FOR CERTAIN PARTS OF INTERCONTINENTAL 
BALLISTIC MISSILE FUZES.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--Notwithstanding section 1502(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, of the amount authorized to be 
appropriated for fiscal year 2016 by section 101 and available for 
Missile Procurement, Air Force, as specified in the funding table in 
section 4101, $13,700,000 shall be available for the procurement of 
covered parts pursuant to contracts entered into under section 1645(a) 
of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' Mckeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 
3651).
    (b) Covered Parts Defined.--In this section, the term ``covered 
parts'' means commercially available off-the-shelf items as defined in 
section 104 of title 41, United States Code.
SEC. 1654. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR DE-ALERTING 
INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILES.
    (a) Prohibition.--Except as provided by subsection (b), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of Defense may be 
obligated or expended to reduce, or prepare to reduce, the 
responsiveness or alert level of the intercontinental ballistic 
missiles of the United States.
    (b) Exceptions.--The prohibition in subsection (a) shall not apply 
to any of the following activities:
        (1) The maintenance or sustainment of intercontinental 
    ballistic missiles.
        (2) Ensuring the safety, security, or reliability of 
    intercontinental ballistic missiles.
        (3) Reductions in the number of deployed intercontinental 
    ballistic missiles that are carried out in compliance with--
            (A) the limitations of the New START Treaty (as defined in 
        section 494(a)(2)(D) of title 10, United States Code); and
            (B) section 1644 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
        Mckeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
        (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3651; 10 U.S.C. 494 note).
SEC. 1655. ASSESSMENT OF GLOBAL NUCLEAR ENVIRONMENT.
    (a) Assessment Required.--The Director of Net Assessment of the 
Department of Defense, in coordination with the Commander of the United 
States Strategic Command, shall conduct an assessment of the global 
environment with respect to nuclear weapons and the role of the nuclear 
forces, policy, and strategy of the United States in that environment.
    (b) Objectives.--The objectives of the assessment required by 
subsection (a) are to inform the long-term planning of the Department 
of Defense and policies relating to regional nuclear crises and 
operations that may involve the escalation of nuclear competition among 
countries.
    (c) Requirements.--
        (1) In general.--In conducting the assessment required by 
    subsection (a), the Director shall develop and analyze a range of 
    contingencies and scenarios, including crises that may emerge from 
    nuclear competition during the 10- to 20-year period beginning on 
    the date of the enactment of this Act that involve the following:
            (A) The United States and one other country that possesses 
        a nuclear weapon.
            (B) The United States and multiple such countries.
            (C) Two other such countries.
            (D) Three or more other such countries.
            (E) Regional and cross-regional geography, including 
        contingencies and scenarios in Europe, the Middle East, South 
        Asia, and East Asia, and contingencies and scenarios that 
        transcend regions.
            (F) The long-term geopolitical and military-technical 
        competition as it relates to nuclear weapons and strategic 
        warfare.
        (2) Analysis of competitive discontinuities.--In analyzing the 
    long-term geopolitical and military-technical competition as it 
    relates to nuclear weapons and strategic warfare under paragraph 
    (1)(F), the Director shall identify--
            (A) prospective discontinuities in that competition; and
            (B) strategies and capabilities the United States could 
        adopt to improve its competitive position following such 
        discontinuities.
    (d) Staffing.--In conducting the assessment required by subsection 
(a), the Director shall engage the best talent available, with 
particular emphasis on engaging individuals and independent entities 
with demonstrated expertise in strategy and net assessment methodology.
    (e) Report Required.--Not later than November 15, 2016, the 
Director shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the assessment required by subsection (a).
SEC. 1656. ANNUAL BRIEFING ON THE COSTS OF FORWARD-DEPLOYING NUCLEAR 
WEAPONS IN EUROPE.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which the 
President submits to Congress the budget for each of fiscal years 2017 
through 2021 under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the 
Secretary of Defense shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on the costs of forward-deploying nuclear weapons 
in Europe (not including costs relating to the life extension program 
for the B61 nuclear bomb).
    (b) Elements.--Each briefing required under paragraph (1) shall 
include the following:
        (1) The contributions of the United States, including with 
    respect to sustainment (operations and maintenance) and manpower, 
    to support forward-deployed nuclear weapons in Europe, but not 
    costs that are attributed to non-nuclear missions, during the 
    fiscal year following the date of the briefing and the period 
    covered by the future-years defense program submitted to Congress 
    under section 221 of title 10, United States Code, for that fiscal 
    year.
        (2) Contributions made by the North Atlantic Treaty 
    Organization (NATO) or member states of NATO relating to the 
    extended deterrence mission.
        (3) Recent or planned contributions of the United States for 
    security enhancements (site-by-site) relating to support for such 
    forward-deployed nuclear weapons and any other contributions, 
    including burden-share costs by the United States, for other 
    security enhancements and upgrades relating to such forward-
    deployed nuclear weapons, including infrastructure upgrades at 
    weapons storage sites in Europe.
SEC. 1657. REPORT ON THE NUMBER OF PLANNED LONG-RANGE STANDOFF WEAPONS.
    Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a report on the justification of the number of planned 
nuclear-armed cruise missiles, known as the long-range standoff weapon, 
of the United States. The report shall include--
        (1) the rationale for procuring such planned number of cruise 
    missiles;
        (2) how such planned number of cruise missiles aligns with the 
    nuclear employment strategy of the United States;
        (3) an estimate of the annual and total cost for research, 
    development, test, and evaluation and procurement for such planned 
    number of cruise missiles; and
        (4) an estimate of the proportional annual cost of such cruise 
    missiles as compared to the annual cost of the nuclear triad and 
    annual defense spending.
SEC. 1658. REVIEW OF COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE UNITED STATES ON 
RECOMMENDATIONS RELATING TO NUCLEAR ENTERPRISE OF THE DEPARTMENT OF 
DEFENSE.
    (a) In General.--During each of fiscal years 2016 through 2021, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a review of the 
process of the Department of Defense for addressing the recommendations 
of the Department of Defense Internal Nuclear Enterprise Review, the 
Independent Review of the Department of Defense Nuclear Enterprise, and 
the Nuclear Deterrence Enterprise Review Group that are evaluated by 
the Director of Cost Assessment and Program Evaluation.
    (b) Briefing.--After conducting each review under subsection (a), 
the Comptroller General shall provide to the congressional defense 
committees a briefing on the review.
SEC. 1659. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON ORGANIZATION OF NAVY FOR NUCLEAR 
DETERRENCE MISSION.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) The safety, security, reliability, and credibility of the 
    nuclear deterrent of the United States is a vital national security 
    priority.
        (2) Nuclear weapons require special consideration because of 
    the political and military importance of the weapons, the 
    destructive power of the weapons, and the potential consequences of 
    an accident or unauthorized act involving the weapons.
        (3) The assured safety, security, and control of nuclear 
    weapons and related systems are of paramount importance.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Navy has repeatedly demonstrated the commitment and 
    prioritization of the Navy to the nuclear deterrence mission of the 
    Navy;
        (2) the emphasis of the Navy on ensuring a safe, secure, 
    reliable, and credible sea-based nuclear deterrent force has been 
    matched by an equal emphasis on ensuring the assured safety, 
    security, and control of nuclear weapons and related systems 
    ashore; and
        (3) the Navy is commended for the actions the Navy has taken 
    subsequent to the 2014 Nuclear Enterprise Review to ensure 
    continued focus on the nuclear deterrent mission by all ranks 
    within the Navy, including the clarification and assignment of 
    specific responsibilities and authorities within the Navy contained 
    in OPNAV Instruction 8120.1 and SECNAV Instruction 8120.1B.
SEC. 1660. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON THE NUCLEAR FORCE IMPROVEMENT PROGRAM 
OF THE AIR FORCE.
    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
        (1) On February 6, 2014, Air Force Global Strike Command 
    initiated a force improvement program for the intercontinental 
    ballistic missile force designed to improve mission effectiveness, 
    strengthen culture and morale, and identify areas in need of 
    investment by soliciting input from airmen performing 
    intercontinental ballistic missile operations.
        (2) The intercontinental ballistic missile force improvement 
    program generated more than 300 recommendations to strengthen 
    intercontinental ballistic missile operations and served as a model 
    for subsequent force improvement programs in other mission areas, 
    such as bomber operations and sustainment.
        (3) On May 28, 2014, as part of the nuclear force improvement 
    program, the Air Force announced it would make immediate 
    improvements in the nuclear mission of the Air Force, including 
    enhancing career opportunities for airmen in the nuclear career 
    field, ensuring training activities focused on performing the 
    mission in the field, reforming the personnel reliability program, 
    establishing special pay rates for positions in the nuclear career 
    field, and creating a new service medal for nuclear deterrence 
    operations.
        (4) Chief of Staff of the Air Force Mark Welsh has said that, 
    as part of the nuclear force improvement program, the Air Force 
    will increase nuclear-manning levels and strengthen professional 
    development for the members of the Air Force supporting the nuclear 
    mission of the Air Force in order ``to address shortfalls and offer 
    our airmen more stable work schedule and better quality of life''.
        (5) Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James, in 
    recognition of the importance of the nuclear mission of the Air 
    Force, proposed elevating the grade of the commander of the Air 
    Force Global Strike Command from lieutenant general to general, and 
    on March 30, 2015, the Senate confirmed a general as commander of 
    that command.
        (6) The Air Force redirected more than $160,000,000 in fiscal 
    year 2014 to alleviate urgent, near-term shortfalls within the 
    nuclear mission of the Air Force as part of the nuclear force 
    improvement program.
        (7) The Air Force plans to spend more than $200,000,000 on the 
    nuclear force improvement program in fiscal year 2015, and 
    requested more than $130,000,000 for the program for fiscal year 
    2016.
        (8) Secretary of Defense Chuck Hagel said on November 14, 2014, 
    that ``[t]he nuclear mission plays a critical role in ensuring the 
    Nation's safety. No other enterprise we have is more important''.
        (9) Secretary Hagel also said that the budget for the nuclear 
    mission of the Air Force should increase by 10 percent over a five-
    year period.
        (10) Section 1652 of the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' 
    McKeon National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 
    (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3654; 10 U.S.C. 491 note) declares 
    it the policy of the United States ``to ensure that the members of 
    the Armed Forces who operate the nuclear deterrent of the United 
    States have the training, resources, and national support required 
    to execute the critical national security mission of the members''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the nuclear mission of the Air Force should be a top 
    priority for the Department of the Air Force and for Congress;
        (2) the members of the Air Force who operate and maintain the 
    nuclear deterrent of the United States perform work that is vital 
    to the security of the United States;
        (3) the nuclear force improvement program of the Air Force has 
    made significant near-term improvements for the members of the Air 
    Force in the nuclear career field of the Air Force;
        (4) Congress should support long-term investments in the Air 
    Force nuclear enterprise that sustain the progress made under the 
    nuclear force improvement program;
        (5) the Air Force should--
            (A) regularly inform Congress on the progress being made 
        under the nuclear force improvement program and its efforts to 
        strengthen the nuclear enterprise; and
            (B) make Congress aware of any additional actions that 
        should be taken to optimize performance of the nuclear mission 
        of the Air Force and maximize the strength of the strategic 
        deterrent of the United States; and
        (6) future budgets for the Air Force should reflect the 
    importance of the nuclear mission of the Air Force and the need to 
    provide members of the Air Force assigned to the nuclear mission 
    the best possible support and quality of life.
SEC. 1661. SENSES OF CONGRESS ON IMPORTANCE OF COOPERATION AND 
COLLABORATION BETWEEN UNITED STATES AND UNITED KINGDOM ON NUCLEAR 
ISSUES AND ON 60TH ANNIVERSARY OF FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE PROGRAM.
    (a) Collaboration Between United States and United Kingdom.--It is 
the sense of Congress that--
        (1) cooperation and collaboration under the 1958 Mutual Defense 
    Agreement and the 1963 Polaris Sales Agreement are fundamental 
    elements of the security of the United States and the United 
    Kingdom as well as international stability;
        (2) the recent renewal of the Mutual Defense Agreement and the 
    continued work under the Polaris Sales Agreement underscore the 
    enduring and long-term value of the agreements to both countries; 
    and
        (3) the vital efforts performed under the purview of both the 
    Mutual Defense Agreement and the Polaris Sales Agreement are 
    critical to sustaining and enhancing the capabilities and knowledge 
    base of both countries regarding nuclear deterrence, nuclear 
    nonproliferation and counterproliferation, and naval nuclear 
    propulsion.
    (b) 60th Anniversary of Fleet Ballistic Missile Program.--It is the 
sense of Congress that--
        (1) November 2015 marks the 60th anniversary of the Fleet 
    Ballistic Missile Program of the Navy, which evolved from the 
    Special Project Office established under President Dwight D. 
    Eisenhower, and has provided credible, reliable, and affordable 
    strategic deterrence solutions to the warfighter by producing more 
    than 3,600 missiles over six different generations;
        (2) The current Trident II D5 missile system has provided a 
    reliable deterrent for nearly 25 years onboard Ohio-class ballistic 
    missile submarines and has demonstrated reliability that is second-
    to-none as evidenced by more than two decades of annual, 
    operationally representative flight testing;
        (3) Congress congratulates the men and women of Strategic 
    Systems Programs, their industry partners, and the Marines, 
    Sailors, and Coast Guardsmen who stand watch ensuring the safety, 
    security, and credibility of the strategic weapons of the United 
    States; and
        (4) Strategic Systems Programs, and the strategic weapon system 
    the programs provide, are a vital and esteemed cornerstone of the 
    security and defense of the United States and will remain so well 
    into the future.
SEC. 1662. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON PLAN FOR IMPLEMENTATION OF NUCLEAR 
ENTERPRISE REVIEWS.
    It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the Secretary of Defense should develop a plan regarding 
    how the Secretary plans to implement the recommendations of the two 
    nuclear enterprise reviews, one of which was led by Assistant 
    Secretary of Defense Madelyn Creedon and Rear Admiral Peter Fanta 
    and one of which was led by General Larry Welch (retired) and 
    Admiral John Harvey, Jr. (retired); and
        (2) such plan should include a timeline for when each 
    recommendation will be implemented and how any additional manpower 
    resulting from such recommendations will be allocated.
SEC. 1663. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON MILESTONE A DECISION ON 
LONG-RANGE STANDOFF WEAPON.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the Sense of Congress that, to 
support the nuclear deterrence requirements of the United States 
Strategic Command and ensure the credibility and reliability of the 
nuclear-capable air launched cruise missiles of the United States, 
Congress supports efforts by the Secretary of Defense to validate 
military requirements and make a Milestone A decision on the long-range 
standoff weapon.
    (b) Report.--Not later than May 31, 2016, the Secretary of Defense 
shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the 
outcome of Milestone A decision for the long-range standoff weapon.
SEC. 1664. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON POLICY ON THE NUCLEAR TRIAD.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the triad of strategic nuclear delivery systems plays a 
    critical role in ensuring the national security of the United 
    States; and
        (2) retaining all three legs of the nuclear triad is among the 
    highest priorities of the Department of Defense and will best 
    maintain strategic stability at a reasonable cost, while hedging 
    against potential technical problems and vulnerabilities.
    (b) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States--
        (1) to operate, sustain, and modernize or replace the triad of 
    strategic nuclear delivery systems consisting of--
            (A) heavy bombers equipped with nuclear gravity bombs and 
        air-launched nuclear cruise missiles;
            (B) land-based intercontinental ballistic missiles equipped 
        with nuclear warheads that are capable of carrying multiple 
        independently targetable reentry vehicles; and
            (C) ballistic missile submarines equipped with submarine 
        launched ballistic missiles and multiple nuclear warheads;
        (2) to operate, sustain, and modernize or replace a capability 
    to forward-deploy nuclear weapons and dual-capable fighter-bomber 
    aircraft;
        (3) to deter potential adversaries and assure allies and 
    partners of the United States through strong and long-term 
    commitment to the nuclear deterrent of the United States and the 
    personnel, systems, and infrastructure that comprise such 
    deterrent;
        (4) to ensure that the members of the Armed Forces who operate 
    the nuclear deterrent of the United States have the training, 
    resources, and national support required to execute the critical 
    national security mission of the members; and
        (5) to achieve a modern and responsive nuclear infrastructure 
    to support the full spectrum of deterrence requirements.
SEC. 1665. REPORT RELATING TO THE COSTS ASSOCIATED WITH EXTENDING THE 
LIFE OF THE MINUTEMAN III INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC MISSILE.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of the Air Force shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report examining the costs associated with 
extending the life of the Minuteman III intercontinental ballistic 
missile compared to the costs associated with procuring a new ground-
based strategic deterrent.

         Subtitle E--Missile Defense Programs and Other Matters

SEC. 1671. PROHIBITIONS ON PROVIDING CERTAIN MISSILE DEFENSE 
INFORMATION TO RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Prohibitions.--
        (1) In general.--Chapter 3 of title 10, United States Code, as 
    amended by section 1642, is further amended by adding at the end 
    the following new section:
``Sec. 130h. Prohibitions on providing certain missile defense 
    information to Russian Federation
    ``(a) Certain `Hit-to-kill' Technology and Telemetry Data.--None of 
the funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for 
any fiscal year for the Department of Defense may be used to provide 
the Russian Federation with `hit-to-kill' technology and telemetry data 
for missile defense interceptors or target vehicles.
    ``(b) Other Sensitive Missile Defense Information.--None of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated or otherwise made available for any 
fiscal year for the Department of Defense may be used to provide the 
Russian Federation with--
        ``(1) information relating to velocity at burnout of missile 
    defense interceptors or targets of the United States; or
        ``(2) classified or otherwise controlled missile defense 
    information.
    ``(c) Exception.--The prohibitions in subsection (a) and (b) shall 
not apply to the United States providing to the Russian Federation 
information regarding ballistic missile early warning.
    ``(d) Sunset.--The prohibitions in subsection (a) and (b) shall 
expire on January 1, 2017.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning 
    of such chapter, as amended by section 1642, is further amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 130g the following new 
    item:

``130h. Prohibitions on providing certain missile defense information to 
          Russian Federation.''.

    (b) Conforming Repeal.--Section 1246 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
922), as amended by section 1243 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3568), is 
further amended--
        (1) by striking subsection (c); and
        (2) in the heading, by striking ``and limitations'' and all 
    that follows through ``federation''.
SEC. 1672. PROHIBITION ON INTEGRATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF 
RUSSIAN FEDERATION INTO MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF UNITED STATES.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal years 2016 or 2017 for the 
Department of Defense may be obligated or expended to integrate a 
missile defense system of the Russian Federation into any missile 
defense system of the United States.
SEC. 1673. PROHIBITION ON INTEGRATION OF MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF 
CHINA INTO MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS OF UNITED STATES.
    None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the Department of 
Defense may be obligated or expended to integrate a missile defense 
system of the People's Republic of China into any missile defense 
system of the United States.
SEC. 1674. LIMITATIONS ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PATRIOT LOWER TIER 
AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE CAPABILITY OF THE ARMY.
    (a) Limitation.--Except as provided by subsection (c), none of the 
funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made 
available for fiscal year 2016 for any program described in subsection 
(b) may be obligated or expended unless--
        (1) the Secretary of the Army certifies to the congressional 
    defense committees that the analysis of alternatives regarding the 
    Patriot lower tier air and missile defense capability of the Army 
    has been submitted to such committees;
        (2) a period of 30 days has elapsed following the date on which 
    the Secretary makes the certification under paragraph (1); and
        (3) the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, 
    and Logistics certifies to such committees that such obligation or 
    expenditure of funds on such programs is consistent with the 
    findings of the analysis of alternatives described in paragraph (1) 
    to modernize the Patriot lower tier air and missile defense 
    capability of the Army.
    (b) Program Described.--A program described in this subsection are 
the following components and capabilities of the Patriot air and 
missile defense system:
        (1) Radar capability development, radar improvements, the 
    digital sidelobe canceller, or the radar digital processor of the 
    lower tier air and missile defense program of the Army.
        (2) The enhanced launcher electronic system.
    (c) Waiver.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, 
Technology, and Logistics may waive the limitations in subsection (a) 
if the Under Secretary--
        (1) determines that such waiver--
            (A) is caused by the delay of the analysis of alternatives 
        described in paragraph (1) of such subsection; and
            (B) is necessary to avoid an unacceptable risk to mission 
        performance;
        (2) notifies the congressional defense committees of such 
    waiver; and
        (3) pursuant to such waiver, obligates or expends funds only in 
    amounts necessary to avoid such unacceptable risk to mission 
    performance.
SEC. 1675. INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY OF AIR AND MISSILE DEFENSE 
CAPABILITIES OF THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Interoperability of Missile Defense Systems.--The Under 
Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics and the 
Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, acting through the Missile 
Defense Executive Board, shall ensure the interoperability and 
integration of the covered air and missile defense capabilities of the 
United States, including by carrying out operational testing.
    (b) Annual Demonstration.--
        (1) Requirement.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), the 
    Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Secretary of the 
    Army shall jointly ensure that not less than one intercept or 
    flight test is carried out each year that demonstrates 
    interoperability and integration among the covered air and missile 
    defense capabilities of the United States.
        (2) Waiver.--The Director and the Secretary may waive the 
    requirement in paragraph (1) with respect to an intercept or flight 
    test carried out during the year covered by the waiver if the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics--
            (A) determines that such waiver is necessary for such year; 
        and
            (B) submits to the congressional defense committees 
        notification of such waiver, including an explanation for how 
        such waiver will not negatively affect demonstrating the 
        interoperability and integration among the covered air and 
        missile defense capabilities of the United States.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section, the term ``covered air and 
missile defense capabilities'' means Patriot air and missile defense 
batteries and associated interceptors and systems, Aegis ships and 
associated ballistic missile interceptors (including Aegis Ashore 
capability), AN/TPY-2 radars, or terminal high altitude area defense 
batteries and interceptors.
SEC. 1676. INTEGRATION AND INTEROPERABILITY OF ALLIED MISSILE DEFENSE 
CAPABILITIES.
    (a) Assessments.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, each covered commander shall submit to the 
    Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
    an assessment on opportunities for the integration and 
    interoperability of covered air and missile defense capabilities of 
    the United States with such capabilities of allies of the United 
    States located in the area of responsibility of the commander, 
    particularly with respect to such allies who acquired such 
    capabilities through foreign military sales by the United States. 
    Each assessment shall include an assessment of the key technology, 
    security, command and control, and policy requirements necessary to 
    achieve such an integrated and interoperable air and missile 
    defense capability in a manner that ensures burden sharing and 
    furthers the force multiplication goals of the United States.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
    a covered commander submits to the Secretary and the Chairman an 
    assessment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report containing such 
    assessment, without change.
    (b) Integration, Interoperability, and Command-and-control.--The 
Secretary and the Chairman, in coordination with the Secretary of the 
Army, the Chief of Staff of the Army, the Secretary of the Navy, and 
the Chief of Naval Operations, shall carry out the planning, risk 
assessments, policy development, and concepts of operations necessary 
for each covered commander to ensure that the integration (to the 
extent that specific integration arrangements are agreeable to the 
partner nation or among the partner nations involved in such 
arrangements), interoperability, and command-and-control of air and 
missile defense capabilities described in subsection (a)(1) occur by 
not later than December 31, 2017.
    (c) Reports.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until December 31, 2017, 
the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
shall jointly submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that describes the progress made by the Secretary, the Chairman, and 
the covered commanders with respect to carrying out subsection (b), 
including an identification of each required action that has not been 
taken as of the date of the report.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) The term ``covered air and missile defense capabilities'' 
    means Patriot air and missile defense batteries and associated 
    interceptors and systems, Aegis ships and associated ballistic 
    missile interceptors (including Aegis Ashore capability), AN/TPY-2 
    radars, or terminal high altitude area defense batteries and 
    interceptors.
        (2) The term ``covered commander'' means the following:
            (A) The Commander of the United States European Command.
            (B) The Commander of the United States Central Command.
            (C) The Commander of the United States Pacific Command.
SEC. 1677. MISSILE DEFENSE CAPABILITY IN EUROPE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the relevant combatant 
command, should ensure that arrangements are in place, including 
support from other members of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
(NATO) and the host nations, to provide anti-air defense capability at 
the Aegis Ashore sites in Romania and Poland by not later than June 1, 
2019.
    (b) Request to NATO.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination 
    with the Secretary of State, shall submit to NATO a request for 
    NATO Security Investment Programme support for an air defense 
    capability at the Aegis Ashore sites in Romania and Poland.
        (2) Notification.--Not later than April 1, 2016, the Secretary 
    shall notify the appropriate congressional committees as to whether 
    NATO has agreed in principle to providing the support described in 
    paragraph (1).
        (3) Appropriate congressional committees.--In this subsection, 
    the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees; and
            (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate.
    (c) Report on Air Defense Capability.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report describing--
            (A) the plan and budget profile to provide the air defense 
        capability described in subsection (b)(1);
            (B) an assessment of any changes to the hosting agreements 
        between the respective host nations and the United States;
            (C) an evaluation of the feasibility, benefit, and cost of 
        using the evolved sea sparrow missile, the standard missile 2, 
        or other options as determined by the Secretary to provide such 
        air defense capability; and
            (D) an assessment of the air and ballistic missile threat 
        to the military installations of the United States in Europe, 
        including the Naval Shore Facility in Devesulu, Romania, and 
        the planned facility in Redzikowo, Poland.
        (2) Form.--The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in 
    unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    (d) Capabilities in European Command Area of Responsibility.--
        (1) Rotational deployment.--Not later than 180 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall 
    ensure that a terminal high altitude area defense battery is 
    available for rotational deployment to the area of responsibility 
    of the United States European Command unless the Secretary notifies 
    the congressional defense committees that such battery is needed in 
    the area of responsibility of another combatant command.
        (2) Pre-positioning sites.--The Secretary of Defense shall 
    examine potential sites in the area of responsibility of the United 
    States European Command to pre-position a terminal high altitude 
    area defense battery.
        (3) Studies.--
            (A) Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment 
        of this Act, the Secretary shall conduct studies to evaluate--
                (i) not fewer than three sites in the area of 
            responsibility of the United States European Command for 
            the deployment of a terminal high altitude area defense 
            battery in the event that the deployment of such a battery 
            is determined to be necessary; and
                (ii) not fewer than three sites in such area for the 
            deployment of a Patriot air and missile defense battery in 
            the event that such a deployment is determined to be 
            necessary.
            (B) In evaluating sites under clauses (i) and (ii) of 
        subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall determine which sites are 
        best for defending--
                (i) the Armed Forces of the United States; and
                (ii) the member states of the North Atlantic Treaty 
            Organization.
        (4) Agreements.--If the Secretary of Defense determines that a 
    deployment described in clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (3)(A) is 
    necessary and the appropriate host nation requests such a 
    deployment, the President shall seek to enter into the necessary 
    agreements with the host nation to carry out such deployment.
    (e) Implementation of Certain Direction.--The Secretary shall 
implement the direction relating to this section contained in the 
classified annex accompanying this Act.
SEC. 1678. AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR IRON DOME SHORT-RANGE ROCKET 
DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by section 1502 for procurement, Defense-wide, and 
available for the Missile Defense Agency, not more than $41,400,000 may 
be provided to the Government of Israel to procure radars for the Iron 
Dome short-range rocket defense system as specified in the funding 
table in section 4102, including for coproduction of such radars in the 
United States by industry of the United States.
    (b) Conditions.--
        (1) Agreement.--Funds described in subsection (a) to produce 
    the Iron Dome short-range rocket defense program shall be available 
    subject to the terms and conditions in the Agreement Between the 
    Department of Defense of the United States of America and the 
    Ministry of Defense of the State of Israel Concerning Iron Dome 
    Defense System Procurement, signed on March 5, 2014, subject to an 
    amended agreement for coproduction for radar components. In 
    negotiations by the Missile Defense Agency and the Missile Defense 
    Organization of the Government of Israel regarding such production, 
    the goal of the United States is to maximize opportunities for 
    coproduction of the radars described in subsection (a) in the 
    United States by industry of the United States.
        (2) Certification.--Not later than 30 days prior to the initial 
    obligation of funds described in subsection (a), the Director of 
    the Missile Defense Agency and the Under Secretary of Defense for 
    Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics shall jointly submit to the 
    appropriate congressional committees--
            (A) a certification that the agreement specified in 
        paragraph (1) is being implemented as provided in such 
        agreement; and
            (B) an assessment detailing any risks relating to the 
        implementation of such agreement.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1679. ISRAELI COOPERATIVE MISSILE DEFENSE PROGRAM CODEVELOPMENT 
AND COPRODUCTION.
    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), of the funds authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016 for procurement, Defense-wide, 
and available for the Missile Defense Agency--
        (1) not more than $150,000,000 may be provided to the 
    Government of Israel to procure the David's Sling Weapon System, 
    including for coproduction of parts and components in the United 
    States by United States industry; and
        (2) not more than $15,000,000 may be provided to the Government 
    of Israel for the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program, including 
    for coproduction of parts and components in the United States by 
    United States industry.
    (b) Certification.--
        (1) Criteria.--Except as provided by subsection (c), the Under 
    Secretary of Defense for Acquisition, Technology, and Logistics 
    shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    certification that--
            (A) the Government of Israel has demonstrated the 
        successful completion of the knowledge points, technical 
        milestones, and production readiness reviews required by the 
        research, development, and technology agreements for the 
        David's Sling Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier 
        Development Program, respectively;
            (B) such funds will be provided on the basis of a one-for-
        one cash match made by Israel for such respective systems or in 
        another matching amount that otherwise meets best efforts (as 
        mutually agreed to by the United States and Israel);
            (C) the United States has entered into a bilateral 
        agreement with Israel that establishes--
                (i) in accordance with subparagraph (D), the terms of 
            coproduction of parts and components of such respective 
            systems on the basis of the greatest practicable 
            coproduction of parts, components, and all-up rounds (if 
            appropriate) by United States industry and minimizes 
            nonrecurring engineering and facilitization expenses;
                (ii) complete transparency on the requirement of Israel 
            for the number of interceptors and batteries of such 
            respective systems that will be procured, including with 
            respect to the procurement plans, acquisition strategy, and 
            funding profiles of Israel;
                (iii) technical milestones for coproduction of parts 
            and components and procurement of such respective systems; 
            and
                (iv) joint approval processes for third-party sales of 
            such respective systems and the components of such 
            respective systems; and
            (D) the level of coproduction described in subparagraph 
        (C)(i) for the David's Sling Weapon System is equal to or 
        greater than 50 percent.
        (2) Number.--In carrying out paragraph (1), the Under Secretary 
    may submit--
            (A) one certification covering both the David's Sling 
        Weapon System and the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program; 
        or
            (B) separate certifications for each such respective 
        system.
        (3) Timing.--The Under Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees the certification under paragraph 
    (1) by not later than 60 days before the funds specified in 
    subsection (a) for the respective system covered by the 
    certification are provided to the Government of Israel.
    (c) Waiver.--The Under Secretary may waive the certification 
required by subsection (b) if the Under Secretary certifies to the 
appropriate congressional committees that the Under Secretary has 
received sufficient data from the Government of Israel to demonstrate--
        (1) the funds specified in paragraph (1) and (2) of subsection 
    (a) are provided to Israel solely for funding the procurement of 
    long-lead components in accordance with a production plan, 
    including a funding profile detailing Israeli contributions for 
    production, including long-lead production, of either David's Sling 
    Weapon System or the Arrow 3 Upper Tier Interceptor Program;
        (2) such long-lead components have successfully completed 
    knowledge points, technical milestones, and production readiness 
    reviews; and
        (3) the long-lead procurement will be conducted in a manner 
    that maximizes coproduction in the United States without incurring 
    additional nonrecurring engineering activity or cost.
    (d) Plan on Coproduction of David's Sling Weapon System.--At the 
same time that the President submits to Congress the budget for fiscal 
year 2017 under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the 
Director of the Missile Defense Agency and the Under Secretary shall 
jointly submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to 
achieve a rate of coproduction by United States industry of parts and 
components of the David's Sling Weapon System at a level that is not 
less than 50 percent. Such plan shall include--
        (1) a timeline for achieving such a level of coproduction;
        (2) any nonrecurring engineering or facilitization costs 
    related to such coproduction, costs for additional testing and 
    training, and other additional associated costs;
        (3) a recommendation for whether carrying out such plan is in 
    the national interest of the United States; and
        (4) any other matter the Director and Under Secretary consider 
    appropriate.
    (e) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 1680. BOOST PHASE DEFENSE SYSTEM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Defense shall--
        (1) prioritize technology investments in the Department of 
    Defense to support feasible and cost-effective efforts by the 
    Missile Defense Agency to develop and field an airborne boost phase 
    defense system by not later than fiscal year 2025;
        (2) ensure that development and fielding of a boost phase 
    missile defense layer to the ballistic missile defense system 
    supports multiple warfighter missile defense requirements, 
    including, specifically, protection of the United States homeland 
    and allies of the United States against ballistic missiles, 
    particularly in the boost phase;
        (3) continue development and fielding of high-energy lasers, 
    electromagnetic and other railgun technology, high-power microwave 
    systems, and other advanced technologies as part of a layered 
    architecture to defend ships and theater bases against air and 
    cruise missile strikes;
        (4) encourage collaboration among the military departments and 
    the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency with respect to high 
    energy laser efforts carried out in support of the Missile Defense 
    Agency; and
        (5) ensure cooperation and coordination between the Missile 
    Defense Agency with respect to the plans of the Missile Defense 
    Agency to develop an airborne laser and the requirements of the Air 
    Force for unmanned aerial vehicles.
    (b) Report to Congress.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the efforts of the 
    Department of Defense to develop and deploy an airborne or other 
    boost phase defense system for missile defense by fiscal year 2025.
        (2) Elements.--The report under paragraph (1) shall include the 
    following:
            (A) Such schedules, costs, warfighter requirements, 
        operational concept, constraints, potential alternative boost 
        phase approaches, and other information regarding the efforts 
        described in paragraph (1) as the Secretary considers 
        appropriate.
            (B) Analyses of the efforts described in paragraph (1) with 
        respect to the following cases:
                (i) A case in which the Department is under no funding 
            constraints with respect to such efforts and progress is 
            based on the state of the technology.
                (ii) A case in which the Department is under funding 
            constraints and the efforts are carried out in accordance 
            with a moderately aggressive schedule and are subject to 
            moderate technical risk.
                (iii) A case in which the Department is under funding 
            constraints and the efforts are carried out in accordance 
            with a less aggressive schedule and are subject to less 
            technical risk.
            (C) An update on related efforts of the Department to 
        develop high energy lasers, electromagnetic and other railguns, 
        high power microwave systems, and other advanced technologies 
        to defend ships and theater bases against air and cruise 
        missile strikes and to protect the homeland of the United 
        States and protect allies of the United States.
            (D) An evaluation of recommendations, including a listing 
        of the recommendations, from industry on emerging technologies 
        that could be applied for boost phase missile defense.
            (E) Such recommendations as the Secretary may have for 
        legislative or administrative action to enable more rapid 
        fielding of a directed-energy based missile defense system.
        (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
    submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
SEC. 1681. DEVELOPMENT AND DEPLOYMENT OF MULTIPLE-OBJECT KILL VEHICLE 
FOR MISSILE DEFENSE OF THE UNITED STATES HOMELAND.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the defense of the United States homeland against the 
    threat of limited ballistic missile attack (whether accidental, 
    unauthorized, or deliberate) is the highest priority of the Missile 
    Defense Agency;
        (2) the Missile Defense Agency is appropriately prioritizing 
    the design, development, and deployment of the redesigned kill 
    vehicle; and
        (3) the multiple-object kill vehicle could contribute critical 
    capabilities to the future of the ballistic missile defense of the 
    United States homeland.
    (b) Multiple-object Kill Vehicle.--
        (1) Development.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
    shall develop a highly reliable multiple-object kill vehicle for 
    the ground-based midcourse defense system using sound acquisition 
    practices.
        (2) Deployment.--The Director shall--
            (A) conduct rigorous flight testing of the multiple-object 
        kill vehicle developed under paragraph (1) by not later than 
        2020; and
            (B) recognizing the primacy of developing the redesigned 
        kill vehicle, produce and deploy the multiple-object kill 
        vehicle as early as practicable after the date on which the 
        Director carries out subparagraph (A).
    (c) Capabilities and Criteria.--The Director shall ensure that the 
multiple-object kill vehicle developed under subsection (b)(1) meets, 
at a minimum, the following capabilities and criteria:
        (1) Vehicle-to-vehicle communications.
        (2) Vehicle-to-ground communications.
        (3) Kill assessment capability.
        (4) The ability to counter advanced counter measures, decoys, 
    and penetration aids.
        (5) Producibility and manufacturability.
        (6) Use of technology involving high technology readiness 
    levels.
        (7) Options to be integrated onto other missile defense 
    interceptor vehicles other than the ground-based interceptors of 
    the ground-based midcourse defense system.
        (8) Sound acquisition processes.
    (d) Program Management.--The management of the multiple-object kill 
vehicle program under subsection (b) shall report directly to the 
Deputy Director of the Missile Defense Agency.
    (e) Report on Funding Profile.--The Director shall include with the 
budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the 
budget of the Department of Defense for fiscal year 2017 (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) a report on the funding profile necessary for the 
multiple-object kill vehicle program to meet the objectives under 
subsection (b).
SEC. 1682. REQUIREMENT TO REPLACE CAPABILITY ENHANCEMENT I 
EXOATMOSPHERIC KILL VEHICLES.
    (a) In General.--Subject to subsection (b), the Director of the 
Missile Defense Agency shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, 
that all remaining ground-based interceptors of the ground-based 
midcourse defense system that are armed with the capability enhancement 
I exoatmospheric kill vehicle are replaced with the redesigned 
exoatmospheric kill vehicle before September 30, 2022.
    (b) Condition.--Subsection (a) shall not apply if the Director 
determines that flight and intercept testing of the redesigned 
exoatmospheric kill vehicle is not successful.
SEC. 1683. DESIGNATION OF PREFERRED LOCATION OF ADDITIONAL MISSILE 
DEFENSE SITE IN THE UNITED STATES AND PLAN FOR EXPEDITING DEPLOYMENT 
TIME OF SUCH SITE.
    (a) Site Designation.--Not later than 30 days after the date on 
which the Secretary of Defense publishes the draft environmental impact 
statement pursuant to subsection (b) of section 227 of the National 
Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 
Stat. 1678), the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in 
consultation with the Commander of the United States Northern Command, 
shall designate, from among the sites evaluated under subsection (a) of 
such section 227, the preferred site in the United States for the 
future deployment of an interceptor capable of protecting the homeland, 
as informed by--
        (1) such environmental impact statement; and
        (2) the operational effectiveness and cost effectiveness of 
    such evaluated sites.
    (b) Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date on which 
    the Secretary of Defense makes the congressional notification of 
    the finalization of the environmental impact statement prepared 
    pursuant to section 227(b) of the National Defense Authorization 
    Act for Fiscal Year 2013, the Secretary shall--
            (A) develop a plan for expediting the deployment time for 
        the site designated under subsection (a) by at least two years, 
        if the decision is made to proceed with such deployment; and
            (B) submit to the congressional defense committees such 
        plan and any update, as may be necessary, to the designation 
        made under subsection (a).
        (2) Report elements.--The plan under paragraph (1)(A) shall 
    include the following:
            (A) Estimates of the costs of carrying out the plan and a 
        schedule for carrying out the plan.
            (B) An assessment of any risks associated with decreasing 
        the deployment time of the site designated under subsection 
        (a), including with respect to cost and the operational 
        effectiveness and reliability of interceptors.
            (C) Identification of any deviation in the plan from sound 
        acquisition processes, including with respect to testing prior 
        to full operational capability designation.
            (D) A description of such legislative or administrative 
        action as may be necessary to carry out the plan.
    (c) Limitation.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for military 
construction for the East Coast missile site planning and design, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, may be obligated or 
expended until the date on which the Secretary of Defense publishes the 
final environmental impact statement pursuant to section 227(b) of the 
National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013.
    (d) Assessment by Comptroller General of the United States.--Not 
later than 90 days after the date on which the Secretary submits the 
plan under subsection (b)(1)(B),the Comptroller General of the United 
States shall--
        (1) complete a review of the plan; and
        (2) submit to the congressional defense committees a report on 
    such review that includes the findings and recommendations of the 
    Comptroller General.
SEC. 1684. ADDITIONAL MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR COVERAGE FOR PROTECTION OF 
UNITED STATES HOMELAND.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that additional 
missile defense sensor discrimination capabilities are needed to 
enhance the protection of the United States homeland against potential 
long-range ballistic missiles from Iran that, according to the 
Department of Defense, could soon be obtained by Iran as a result of 
its active space launch program.
    (b) Studies and Evaluations on Homeport of Sea-based X-band 
Radar.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency shall commence any 
siting studies, environmental impact assessments or statements required 
pursuant to the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 
4321 et seq.) that have not otherwise been prepared, homeport 
agreements for sea-based X-band radar support, evaluations of any 
needed pier modifications, and evaluations of any communications 
capabilities or other requirements to carry out the reassignment of the 
homeport of the sea-based X-band radar to a homeport on the East Coast 
of the United States.
    (c) Potential Future Missile Defense Sensor Sites.--
        (1) Evaluation.--Not later than March 31, 2016, the Director 
    shall commence a study to evaluate at least three possible 
    additional locations (in or outside the United States), selected by 
    the Director, that would be best suited for future deployment of an 
    advanced missile defense sensor site optimized against threats from 
    Iran.
        (2) Environmental impact statements.--Except as provided by 
    paragraph (3), the evaluation under paragraph (1) shall include an 
    environmental impact statement or other analysis in accordance with 
    the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 (42 U.S.C. 4321 et 
    seq.) for each location included in the evaluation.
        (3) Exception.--If an environmental impact statement or other 
    analysis described in paragraph (2) has already been prepared, or 
    is not required by law, for a location included in the evaluation 
    under paragraph (1), the Director shall not be required to carry 
    out paragraph (2) with respect to such location.
    (d) Deployment of Additional Coverage.--
        (1) Deployment.--Not later than December 31, 2020, the 
    Director, in cooperation with the relevant combatant command, shall 
    deploy a long-range discrimination radar or other appropriate 
    sensor capability in a location optimized to support the defense of 
    the homeland of the United States from emerging long-range 
    ballistic missile threats from Iran.
        (2) Sea-based x-band radar.--If the Director carries out 
    paragraph (1) by reassigning the homeport of the sea-based X-band 
    radar, the Director and the Secretary of the Navy may not carry out 
    such reassignment until the date on which the Director certifies to 
    the congressional defense committees that Hawaii will have adequate 
    missile defense coverage prior to such reassignment.
    (e) Submission of Information.--
        (1) Report.--Not later than December 31, 2018, the Director 
    shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
    containing the following:
            (A) The findings of the study conducted under paragraph (1) 
        of subsection (c), including any environmental impact 
        statements or analyses required by paragraph (2) of such 
        subsection.
            (B) Notification of the manner in which Hawaii is being 
        provided ballistic missile defense coverage.
        (2) Plan.--In the budget justification materials submitted to 
    Congress in support of the budget for each of fiscal years 2017 
    through 2020 submitted by the President to Congress under section 
    1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Director shall include--
            (A) the plan of the Director to carry out subsection (d); 
        and
            (B) an update on the progress of the Director in 
        implementing subsections (b) and (c).
SEC. 1685. CONCEPT DEVELOPMENT OF SPACE-BASED MISSILE DEFENSE LAYER.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in 
coordination with the Secretary of the Air Force and the Director of 
the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency, shall commence the 
concept definition of a space-based ballistic missile intercept layer 
to the ballistic missile defense system that provides--
        (1) a boost-phase layer for missile defense; or
        (2) additional defensive options against direct ascent anti-
    satellite weapons, hypersonic glide vehicles, and maneuvering 
    reentry vehicles.
    (b) Elements.--The activities carried out under subsection (a) 
shall include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) Draft operation concepts for how a space-based ballistic 
    missile intercept layer would function in the context of a multi-
    layer missile defense architecture.
        (2) An assessment of how such a space-based ballistic missile 
    intercept layer could contribute to the defense of the United 
    States against intercontinental ballistic missiles with varying 
    degrees of effectiveness.
        (3) An assessment of the required architecture and components 
    (including hardware, software, and related command and control 
    systems) and the maturity of critical technologies necessary to 
    make such a space-based ballistic missile intercept layer 
    operational.
        (4) An assessment of how such a space-based ballistic missile 
    intercept layer could protect the satellites of the United States 
    against adversary anti-satellite weapons.
        (5) An assessment of the effort required to integrate and make 
    interoperable such a space-based ballistic missile intercept layer 
    with the ground-based missile defense system.
        (6) Any other matters the Director of the Missile Defense 
    Agency considers appropriate.
    (c) Report.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional 
defense committees a report that includes--
        (1) the findings of the concept development required by 
    subsection (a);
        (2) a plan for developing one or more programs of record for a 
    space-based ballistic missile intercept layer, including estimates 
    of the appropriate identifiable costs of each such potential 
    program of record; and
        (3) the views of the Director regarding such findings and plan.
SEC. 1686. AEGIS ASHORE CAPABILITY DEVELOPMENT.
    (a) Evaluation.--
        (1) In general.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency, in 
    coordination with the Chief of Naval Operations and the Chief of 
    Staff of the Army, shall evaluate the role, feasibility, cost, cost 
    benefit, and operational effectiveness of additional Aegis Ashore 
    sites and upgrades to current ballistic missile defense system 
    sensors to offset capacity demands on current Aegis ships, Aegis 
    Ashore sites, and Patriot and Terminal High Altitude Area Defense 
    capability and to meet the requirements of the combatant 
    commanders.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense and the Chairman of 
    the Joint Chiefs of Staff shall--
            (A) review the evaluation conducted under paragraph (1); 
        and
            (B) submit to the congressional defense committees such 
        evaluation and the results of such review, including 
        recommendations for potential future locations of Aegis Ashore 
        sites.
    (b) Identification of FMS Obstacles.--
        (1) In general.--The Under Secretary of Defense for Policy and 
    the Secretary of State shall jointly identify any obstacles to 
    foreign military sales of Aegis Ashore or cofinancing of additional 
    Aegis Ashore sites. Such evaluation shall include, with 
    coordination with other agencies and departments of the Federal 
    Government as appropriate, the feasibility of host nation manning 
    or dual manning with the United States and such host nation.
        (2) Submission.--Not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign Affairs 
    of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign 
    Relations of the Senate a report on the identification of obstacles 
    under paragraph (1).
SEC. 1687. DEVELOPMENT OF REQUIREMENTS TO SUPPORT INTEGRATED AIR AND 
MISSILE DEFENSE CAPABILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Consistent with the memorandum of the Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff of January 27, 2014, regarding joint 
integrated air and missile defense, the Vice Chairman of the Joint 
Chiefs of Staff shall oversee the development of warfighter 
requirements for persistent and survivable capabilities to detect, 
identify, determine the status, track, and support engagement of 
strategically important mobile or relocatable assets in all phases of 
conflict in order to achieve the objective of preventing the effective 
employment of such assets, including through offensive actions against 
such assets prior to their use.
    (b) Purpose of Requirements.--The requirements developed pursuant 
to subsection (a) shall be used and updated, as appropriate, for the 
purpose of informing applicable acquisition programs and systems-of-
systems architecture planning that are funded through the Military 
Intelligence Program, the National Intelligence Program, and non-
intelligence programs.
    (c) Supporting Activities.--The Vice Chairman shall also oversee 
the development of the enabling framework for intelligence support for 
integrated air and missile defense, including concepts for the 
integrated operation of multiple systems, and, as appropriate, the 
development of requirements for capabilities to be acquired to achieve 
such integrated operations.
    (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that new 
acquisition programs for applicable major systems or capabilities, or 
for upgrades to existing systems, should not be undertaken until the 
applicable requirements described in subsections (a) and (c) have been 
developed and incorporated into programmatic decision-making.
SEC. 1688. EXTENSION OF REQUIREMENT FOR COMPTROLLER GENERAL OF THE 
UNITED STATES REVIEW AND ASSESSMENT OF MISSILE DEFENSE ACQUISITION 
PROGRAMS.
    Section 232(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1339) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``through 2015'' and 
    inserting ``through 2020''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), in the first sentence, by striking 
    ``through 2016'' and inserting ``through 2021''.
SEC. 1689. REPORT ON MEDIUM RANGE BALLISTIC MISSILE DEFENSE SENSOR 
ALTERNATIVES FOR ENHANCED DEFENSE OF HAWAII.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) expanding persistent midcourse and terminal ballistic 
    missile defense system discrimination capability is critically 
    important to the defense of the United States;
        (2) such discrimination capability is needed to respond to 
    emerging ballistic missile threats involving countermeasures and 
    decoys; and
        (3) the Department of Defense should take all appropriate steps 
    to ensure Hawaii has adequate missile defense coverage.
    (b) Evaluation and Report.--
        (1) Evaluation.--The Director of the Missile Defense Agency 
    shall conduct an evaluation of potential options for fielding a 
    medium range ballistic missile defense sensor for the defense of 
    Hawaii, including--
            (A) the use of the Aegis Ashore Missile Defense Test 
        Complex land-based system at the Pacific Missile Range Facility 
        in Hawaii;
            (B) the use of existing sensor assets in the region; and
            (C) other options the Director determines appropriate.
        (2) Submission of report.--Not later than 90 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the 
    congressional defense committees a report on the options for 
    augmenting the missile defense of Hawaii, including--
            (A) a summary of the findings and recommendations of the 
        evaluation conducted under paragraph (1);
            (B) estimated acquisition and operating costs for each 
        sensor option; and
            (C) estimated timelines for the deployment of each sensor 
        option.
SEC. 1690. SENSE OF CONGRESS AND REPORT ON VALIDATED MILITARY 
REQUIREMENT AND MILESTONE A DECISION ON PROMPT GLOBAL STRIKE WEAPON 
SYSTEM.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that the 
United States must continue to develop the conventional prompt global 
strike capability to strike high-value, time-sensitive, and defended 
targets from ranges outside of current conventional technology while 
addressing and preventing any risk of ambiguity.
    (b) Report.--Not later than September 30, 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
regarding the outcome of the military requirements process and 
Milestone A decision for at least one conventional prompt global strike 
weapons system.

            DIVISION B--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 2001. SHORT TITLE.
    This division may be cited as the ``Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2016''.
SEC. 2002. EXPIRATION OF AUTHORIZATIONS AND AMOUNTS REQUIRED TO BE 
SPECIFIED BY LAW.
    (a) Expiration of Authorizations After Three Years.--Except as 
provided in subsection (b), all authorizations contained in titles XXI 
through XXVII for military construction projects, land acquisition, 
family housing projects and facilities, and contributions to the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program (and 
authorizations of appropriations therefor) shall expire on the later 
of--
        (1) October 1, 2018; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    military construction for fiscal year 2019.
    (b) Exception.--Subsection (a) shall not apply to authorizations 
for military construction projects, land acquisition, family housing 
projects and facilities, and contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty 
Organization Security Investment Program (and authorizations of 
appropriations therefor), for which appropriated funds have been 
obligated before the later of--
        (1) October 1, 2018; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for 
    fiscal year 2019 for military construction projects, land 
    acquisition, family housing projects and facilities, or 
    contributions to the North Atlantic Treaty Organization Security 
    Investment Program.
SEC. 2003. EFFECTIVE DATE.
    Titles XXI through XXVII shall take effect on the later of--
        (1) October 1, 2015; or
        (2) the date of the enactment of this Act.

                 TITLE XXI--ARMY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2101. Authorized Army construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2102. Family housing.
Sec. 2103. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2104. Authorization of appropriations, Army.
Sec. 2105. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2013 project.
Sec. 2106. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2107. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2108. Additional authority to carry out certain fiscal year 2016 
          project.
SEC. 2101. AUTHORIZED ARMY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alaska........................................  Fort Greely....................................       $7,800,000
California....................................  Concord........................................      $98,000,000
Colorado......................................  Fort Carson....................................       $5,800,000
Georgia.......................................  Fort Gordon....................................      $90,000,000
Maryland......................................  Fort Meade.....................................      $34,500,000
New York......................................  Fort Drum......................................      $19,000,000
                                                United States Military Academy.................      $70,000,000
Oklahoma......................................  Fort Sill......................................      $69,400,000
Texas.........................................  Corpus Christi.................................      $85,000,000
Virginia......................................  Arlington National Cemetery....................      $30,000,000
                                                Fort Lee.......................................      $33,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may acquire real property and carry out the military construction 
project for the installation or location outside the United States, and 
in the amount, set forth in the following table:

                                         Army: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Germany.......................................  Grafenwoehr....................................      $51,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2102. FAMILY HOUSING.
    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installations or locations, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Army: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                 Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Florida................................  Camp Rudder................  Family Housing New              $8,000,000
                                                                       Construction............
Illinois...............................  Rock Island................  Family Housing New             $20,000,000
                                                                       Construction............
Korea..................................  Camp Walker................  Family Housing New             $61,000,000
                                                                       Construction............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2104(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $7,195,000.
SEC. 2103. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2104(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Army may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $3,500,000.
SEC. 2104. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, ARMY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2015, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Army as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2101 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2105. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2013 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2101(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2119) for the United 
States Military Academy, New York, for construction of a Cadet barracks 
building at the installation, the Secretary of the Army may install 
mechanical equipment and distribution lines sufficient to provide 
chilled water for air conditioning the nine existing historical Cadet 
barracks which are being renovated through the Cadet Barracks Upgrade 
Program.
SEC. 2106. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1661) and extended by section 2107 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3673), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2012 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Georgia.................................  Fort Benning..............  Land Acquisition..........      $5,100,000
                                          Fort Benning..............  Land Acquisition..........     $25,000,000
Virginia................................  Fort Belvoir..............  Road and Infrastructure        $25,000,000
                                                                       Improvements.............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2107. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2101 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2119) shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or the 
date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Army: Extension of 2013 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
           State or Country              Installation or Location             Project                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
District of Columbia..................  Fort McNair..............  Vehicle Storage Building,          $7,191,000
                                                                    Installation...............
Kansas................................  Fort Riley...............  Unmanned Aerial Vehicle           $12,184,000
                                                                    Complex....................
North Carolina........................  Fort Bragg...............  Aerial Gunnery Range........      $41,945,000
Texas.................................  Joint Base San Antonio...  Barracks....................      $20,971,000
Virginia..............................  Fort Belvoir.............  Secure Admin/Operations           $93,876,000
                                                                    Facility...................
Italy.................................  Camp Ederle..............  Barracks....................      $35,952,000
Japan.................................  Sagami...................  Vehicle Maintenance Shop....      $17,976,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2108. ADDITIONAL AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2016 
PROJECT.
    (a) Project Authorization.--The Secretary of the Army may carry out 
a military construction project to construct a vehicle bridge and 
traffic circle to facilitate traffic flow to and from the Medical 
Center at Rhine Ordnance Barracks, Germany, in the amount of 
$12,400,000.
    (b) Use of Host-nation Payment-in-kind Funds.--The Secretary may 
use available host-nation payment-in-kind funding for the project 
described in subsection (a).

                 TITLE XXII--NAVY MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2201. Authorized Navy construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2202. Family housing.
Sec. 2203. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2204. Authorization of appropriations, Navy.
Sec. 2205. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2206. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
SEC. 2201. AUTHORIZED NAVY CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                     Navy: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country             Installation or Location       Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Arizona.....................   Yuma...................      $50,635,000
California...................   Camp Pendleton.........      $44,540,000
                               Coronado................       $4,856,000
                               Lemoore.................      $71,830,000
                               Miramar.................      $11,200,000
                               Point Mugu..............      $22,427,000
                               San Diego...............      $37,366,000
                               Twentynine Palms........       $9,160,000
Florida......................  Jacksonville............      $16,751,000
                               Mayport.................      $16,159,000
                               Pensacola...............      $18,347,000
                               Whiting Field...........      $10,421,000
Georgia......................  Albany..................       $7,851,000
                               Kings Bay...............       $8,099,000
                               Townsend................      $43,279,000
Guam.........................  Joint Region Marianas...     $181,768,000
Hawaii.......................  Barking Sands...........      $30,623,000
                               Joint Base Pearl Harbor-      $14,881,000
                                Hickam.
                               Kaneohe Bay.............     $106,618,000
                               Marine Corps Base Hawaii      $12,800,000
Maryland.....................  Patuxent River..........      $40,935,000
North Carolina...............  Camp Lejeune............      $54,849,000
                               Cherry Point............      $57,726,000
                               New River...............       $8,230,000
South Carolina...............  Parris Island...........      $27,075,000
Virginia.....................  Dam Neck................      $23,066,000
                               Norfolk.................     $126,677,000
                               Portsmouth..............      $45,513,000
                               Quantico................      $58,199,000
Washington...................  Bangor..................      $34,177,000
                               Bremerton...............      $22,680,000
                               Indian Island...........       $4,472,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                     Navy: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    Installation or
            Country                    Location              Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Bahrain Island................  Southwest Asia........       $89,791,000
Italy.........................  Sigonella.............      $102,943,000
Japan.........................   Camp Butler..........       $11,697,000
                                Iwakuni...............       $17,923,000
                                Kadena Air Base.......       $23,310,000
                                Yokosuka..............       $13,846,000
Poland........................  RedziKowo Base........       $51,270,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2202. FAMILY HOUSING.
    (a) Construction and Acquisition.--Using amounts appropriated 
pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and 
available for military family housing functions as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may construct 
or acquire family housing units (including land acquisition and 
supporting facilities) at the installation or location, in the number 
of units, and in the amounts set forth in the following table:

                                              Navy: Family Housing
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                     Installation or Location             Units                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Virginia...............................  Wallops Island.............  Family Housing New                $438,000
                                                                       Construction............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Planning and Design.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
the authorization of appropriations in section 2204(a) and available 
for military family housing functions as specified in the funding table 
in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may carry out architectural 
and engineering services and construction design activities with 
respect to the construction or improvement of family housing units in 
an amount not to exceed $4,588,000.
SEC. 2203. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2204(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Navy may improve existing military family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $11,515,000.
SEC. 2204. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NAVY.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2015, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Navy, as specified in the 
funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2201 of this 
Act may not exceed the total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2205. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1666) and extended by section 2208 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3678), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2012 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                    Installation or Location           Project                 Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 California............................  Camp Pendleton...........  Infantry Squad Defense           $29,187,000
                                                                     Range...................
Florida................................  Jacksonville.............  P-8A Hangar Upgrades.....         $6,085,000
Georgia................................  Kings Bay................  Crab Island Security             $52,913,000
                                                                     Enclave.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2206. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2201 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2122), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or the 
date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                                 Navy: Extension of 2013 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or Location             Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 California............................  Camp Pendleton............  Comm. Information Systems       $78,897,000
                                                                      Ops Complex..............
                                         Coronado..................  Bachelor Quarters.........      $76,063,000
                                         Twentynine Palms..........  Land Expansion Phase 2....      $47,270,000
Greece.................................  Souda Bay.................  Intermodal Access Road....       $4,630,000
South Carolina.........................  Beaufort..................  Recycling/Hazardous Waste        $3,743,000
                                                                      Facility.................
Virginia...............................  Quantico..................  Infrastructure--Widen           $14,826,000
                                                                      Russell Road.............
Worldwide Unspecified..................  Various Worldwide           BAMS Operational                $34,048,000
                                          Locations................   Facilities...............
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


              TITLE XXIII--AIR FORCE MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2301. Authorized Air Force construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2302. Family housing.
Sec. 2303. Improvements to military family housing units.
Sec. 2304. Authorization of appropriations, Air Force.
Sec. 2305. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2010 project.
Sec. 2306. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2014 project.
Sec. 2307. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 project.
Sec. 2308. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2012 
          project.
Sec. 2309. Extension of authorization of certain fiscal year 2013 
          project.
Sec. 2310. Certification of optimal location for Joint Intelligence 
          Analysis Complex and plan for rotation of forces at Lajes 
          Field, Azores.
SEC. 2301. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                       Air Force: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Alaska........................................  Eielson Air Force Base........................      $71,400,000
Arizona........................................  Davis-Monthan Air Force Base..................      $16,900,000
                                                 Luke Air Force Base...........................      $77,700,000
Colorado.......................................  Air Force Academy.............................      $10,000,000
Florida........................................   Cape Canaveral Air Force Station.............      $21,000,000
                                                 Eglin Air Force Base..........................       $8,700,000
                                                 Hurlburt Field................................      $14,200,000
Guam...........................................  Joint Region Marianas.........................      $50,800,000
Hawaii.........................................   Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam...............      $46,000,000
 Kansas........................................  McConnell Air Force Base......................       $4,300,000
Missouri.......................................   Whiteman Air Force Base......................      $29,500,000
Montana........................................  Malstrom Air Force Base.......................      $19,700,000
Nebraska.......................................  Offutt Air Force Base.........................      $21,000,000
Nevada.........................................   Nellis Air Force Base........................      $68,950,000
New Mexico.....................................  Cannon Air Force Base.........................       $7,800,000
                                                 Holloman Air Force Base.......................       $3,000,000
                                                 Kirtland Air Force Base.......................      $12,800,000
North Carolina.................................  Seymour Johnson Air Force Base................      $17,100,000
Oklahoma.......................................  Altus Air Force Base..........................      $28,400,000
                                                 Tinker Air Force Base.........................      $49,900,000
South Dakota...................................  Ellsworth Air Force Base......................      $23,000,000
Texas..........................................  Joint Base San Antonio........................     $106,000,000
Utah...........................................  Hill Air Force Base...........................      $38,400,000
Wyoming........................................  F.E. Warren Air Force Base....................      $95,000,000
CONUS Classified...............................  Classified Location...........................      $77,130,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2304(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may acquire real property and carry out the military 
construction projects for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Air Force: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                    Country                                 Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Greenland.....................................  Thule Air Base..................................     $41,965,000
Japan.........................................  Kadena Air Base.................................      $3,000,000
                                                Yokota Air Base.................................      $8,461,000
Niger.........................................  Agadez..........................................     $50,000,000
Oman..........................................  Al Musannah Air Base............................     $25,000,000
United Kingdom................................  Croughton Royal Air Force.......................    $130,615,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2302. FAMILY HOUSING.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2304(a) and available for military family 
housing functions as specified in the funding table in section 4601, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may carry out architectural and 
engineering services and construction design activities with respect to 
the construction or improvement of family housing units in an amount 
not to exceed $9,849,000.
SEC. 2303. IMPROVEMENTS TO MILITARY FAMILY HOUSING UNITS.
    Subject to section 2825 of title 10, United States Code, and using 
amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of appropriations in 
section 2304(a) and available for military family housing functions as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of the 
Air Force may improve existing military family housing units in an 
amount not to exceed $150,649,000.
SEC. 2304. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, AIR FORCE.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2015, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of the Air Force, as specified in 
the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2301 of this 
Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $21,000,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2301(a) of the Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 
    2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 992) for the 
    CYBERCOM Joint Operations Center at Fort Meade, Maryland).
SEC. 2305. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2010 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2636), for Hickam Air 
Force Base, Hawaii, for construction of a ground control tower at the 
installation, the Secretary of the Air Force may install communications 
cabling.
SEC. 2306. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2014 PROJECT.
    (a) Authorization.--In the case of the authorization contained in 
the table in section 2301(b) of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 
993) for Royal Air Force Lakenheath, United Kingdom, for construction 
of a Guardian Angel Operations Facility at the installation, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may construct the facility at an unspecified 
location within the United States European Command's area of 
responsibility.
    (b) Notice and Wait Requirement.--Before the Secretary of the Air 
Force commences construction of the Guardian Angel Operations Facility 
at an alternative location, as authorized by subsection (a)--
        (1) the Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense 
    committees a report containing a description of the project, 
    including the rationale for selection of the project location; and
        (2) a period of 14 days has expired following the date on which 
    the report is received by the committees or, if over sooner, a 
    period of 7 days has expired following the date on which a copy of 
    the report is provided in an electronic medium pursuant to section 
    480 of title 10, United States Code.
SEC. 2307. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2015 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2301(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3679) for McConnell 
Air Force Base, Kansas, for construction of a KC-46A Alter Composite 
Maintenance Shop at the installation, the Secretary of the Air Force 
may construct a 696 square meter (7,500 square foot) facility 
consistent with Air Force guidelines for composite maintenance shops.
SEC. 2308. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1670) and extended by section 2305 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3680), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2012 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 Country                         Installation                   Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Italy...................................  Sigonella Naval Air         UAS SATCOM Relay Pads and      $15,000,000
                                           Station..................   Facility.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2309. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATION OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECT.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2301 of that Act (126 
Stat. 2126), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or the date 
of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction 
for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                               Air Force: Extension of 2013 Project Authorization
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                Country                   Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Portugal...............................  Lajes Field...............  Sanitary Sewer Lift/Pump         $2,000,000
                                                                      Station..................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2310. CERTIFICATION OF OPTIMAL LOCATION FOR JOINT INTELLIGENCE 
ANALYSIS COMPLEX AND PLAN FOR ROTATION OF FORCES AT LAJES FIELD, 
AZORES.
    (a) Joint Intelligence Analysis Complex Certification.--No amounts 
may be expended for the construction of the Joint Intelligence Analysis 
Complex Consolidation, Phase 2, at Royal Air Force Croughton, United 
Kingdom, as authorized by section 2301(b), until the Secretary of 
Defense certifies to the congressional defense committees that the 
Secretary has determined, based on an analysis of United States 
operational requirements, that Royal Air Force Croughton, United 
Kingdom, remains the optimal location for recapitalization of the Joint 
Intelligence Analysis Complex. The certification shall include an 
explanation of the basis for the certification.
    (b) Lajes Field Utilization.--
        (1) Determination.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Secretary 
    of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
    determination of the operational viability of the use of Lajes 
    Field, Azores, for--
            (A) Department of Defense intelligence functions; or
            (B) the rotational presence of--
                (i) fighter aircraft for air-to-air training; or
                (ii) naval forces.
        (2) Basis of determination.--The submission to the 
    congressional defense committees under paragraph (1) shall include 
    an explanation of the basis for the determination.
        (3) Plan.--If the Secretary of Defense determines that Lajes 
    Field is a viable option for one or more of the uses specified in 
    paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees, not later than April 1, 2016, a plan for such 
    uses that includes the following:
            (A) The types and number of naval forces or air-to-air 
        training fighter aircraft considered for rotational assignment 
        at Lajes Field or a description of the Department of Defense 
        intelligence functions to be assigned, as applicable.
            (B) The duration and frequency of such assignment.
            (C) Any additional infrastructure investment required to 
        support such assignment.
            (D) The impact to permanent manpower levels necessary to 
        support such assignment.

           TITLE XXIV--DEFENSE AGENCIES MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 2401. Authorized Defense Agencies construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2402. Authorized energy conservation projects.
Sec. 2403. Authorization of appropriations, Defense Agencies.
Sec. 2404. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2012 project.
Sec. 2405. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2406. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.
Sec. 2407. Modification and extension of authority to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2014 project.
Sec. 2408. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 project.
SEC. 2401. AUTHORIZED DEFENSE AGENCIES CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects inside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations inside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                   Defense Agencies: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.......................................  Fort Rucker.....................................     $46,787,000
                                                Maxwell Air Force Base..........................     $32,968,000
 Arizona......................................  Fort Huachuca...................................      $3,884,000
California....................................  Camp Pendleton..................................     $20,552,000
                                                Coronado........................................     $47,218,000
                                                Fresno Yosemite IAP ANG.........................     $10,700,000
 Colorado.....................................  Fort Carson.....................................      $8,243,000
CONUS Classified..............................  Classified Location.............................     $20,065,000
Delaware......................................  Dover Air Force Base............................     $21,600,000
Florida.......................................  Hurlburt Field..................................     $17,989,000
                                                MacDill Air Force Base..........................     $39,142,000
Georgia.......................................  Moody Air Force Base............................     $10,900,000
Hawaii........................................  Kaneohe Bay.....................................    $122,071,000
                                                Schofield Barracks..............................    $123,838,000
 Kentucky.....................................  Fort Campbell...................................     $12,553,000
                                                Fort Knox.......................................     $23,279,000
 Maryland.....................................  Fort Meade......................................    $816,077,000
Nevada........................................  Nellis Air Force Base...........................     $39,900,000
 New Mexico...................................  Cannon Air Force Base...........................     $45,111,000
New York......................................  West Point......................................     $55,778,000
 North Carolina...............................  Camp Lejeune....................................     $69,006,000
                                                Fort Bragg......................................    $168,811,000
Ohio..........................................  Wright-Patterson Air Force Base.................      $6,623,000
Oregon........................................  Klamath Falls IAP...............................      $2,500,000
Pennsylvania..................................  Philadelphia....................................     $49,700,000
 South Carolina...............................  Fort Jackson....................................     $26,157,000
Texas.........................................  Joint Base San Antonio..........................     $61,776,000
 Virginia.....................................  Fort Belvoir....................................      $9,500,000
                                                Joint Base Langley-Eustis.......................     $28,000,000
                                                Joint Expeditionary Base Little Creek-Story.....     $23,916,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for military construction projects outside the United States as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of 
Defense may acquire real property and carry out military construction 
projects for the installations or locations outside the United States, 
and in the amounts, set forth in the following:


                                   Defense Agencies: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Djibouti....................................  Camp Lemonier.................................        $43,700,000
Germany......................................  Garmisch......................................        $14,676,000
                                               Grafenwoehr...................................        $38,138,000
                                               Spangdahlem Air Base..........................        $39,571,000
                                               Stuttgart-Patch Barracks......................        $49,413,000
 Japan.......................................  Kadena Air Base...............................        $37,485,000
Poland.......................................  RedziKowo Base................................       $169,153,000
Spain........................................  Rota..........................................        $13,737,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2402. AUTHORIZED ENERGY CONSERVATION PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects inside the United States as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, 
United States Code, for the installations or locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                             Energy Conservation Projects: Inside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                     State                                  Installation or Location                  Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
American Samoa................................  Wake Island.....................................      $5,331,000
California....................................  Edwards Air Force Base..........................      $4,550,000
                                                Fort Hunter Liggett.............................     $22,000,000
 Colorado.....................................  Schriever Air Force Base........................      $4,400,000
District of Columbia..........................  NSA Washington/Naval Research Lab...............     $10,990,000
 Guam.........................................  Naval Base Guam.................................      $5,330,000
Hawaii........................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-Hickam..................     $13,780,000
                                                Marine Corps Recruiting Command Kaneohe Bay.....      $5,740,000
Idaho.........................................  Mountain Home Air Force Base....................      $6,471,000
Montana.......................................  Malmstrom Air Force Base........................      $4,260,000
Virginia......................................  Pentagon........................................      $4,528,000
Washington....................................  Joint Base Lewis-McChord........................     $14,770,000
Various locations.............................  Various locations...............................     $25,809,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2403(a) and available 
for energy conservation projects outside the United States as specified 
in the funding table in section 4601, the Secretary of Defense may 
carry out energy conservation projects under chapter 173 of title 10, 
United States Code, for the installations or locations outside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:


                             Energy Conservation Projects: Outside the United States
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                   Country                                Installation or Location                   Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Bahamas.....................................  Ascension Aux Airfield St. Helena.............         $5,500,000
Japan........................................  Yokoska.......................................        $12,940,000
Various locations............................  Various locations.............................         $3,600,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2403. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, DEFENSE AGENCIES.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated for fiscal years beginning after September 30, 2015, 
for military construction, land acquisition, and military family 
housing functions of the Department of Defense (other than the military 
departments), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
    (b) Limitation on Total Cost of Construction Projects.--
Notwithstanding the cost variations authorized by section 2853 of title 
10, United States Code, and any other cost variation authorized by law, 
the total cost of all projects carried out under section 2401 of this 
Act may not exceed the sum of the following:
        (1) The total amount authorized to be appropriated under 
    subsection (a), as specified in the funding table in section 4601.
        (2) $747,435,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(a) of this Act for an operations facility at Fort 
    Meade, Maryland).
        (3) $441,134,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1673) 
    for a hospital at the Rhine Ordnance Barracks, Germany).
        (4) $91,441,000 (the balance of the amount authorized under 
    section 2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
    Fiscal Year 2010 (division B of Public Law 111-84; 123 Stat. 2640) 
    for a hospital at Fort Bliss, Texas).
SEC. 2404. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2012 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization in the table in section 2401(a) of 
the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 
(division B of Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1672), as amended by 
section 2404(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2131), 
for Fort Meade, Maryland, for construction of the High Performance 
Computing Center at the installation, the Secretary of Defense may 
construct a generator plant capable of producing up to 60 megawatts of 
back-up electrical power in support of the 60 megawatt technical load.
SEC. 2405. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorization set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1672) and as amended by section 2405 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3685), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2012 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 State                    Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California.............................  Naval Base Coronado.......  SOF Support Activity            $38,800,000
                                                                      Operations Facility......
Virginia...............................  Pentagon Reservation......  Heliport Control Tower and       $6,457,000
                                                                      Fire Station.............
                                                                     Pedestrian Plaza..........       $2,285,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2406. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2401 of that Act 
(126 Stat. 2127), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or the 
date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                           Defense Agencies: Extension of 2013 Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             State/Country                Installation or  Location            Project                Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
California.............................  Naval Base Coronado.......  SOF Mobile Communications        $9,327,000
                                                                      Detachment Support
                                                                      Facility.................
Colorado...............................  Pikes Peak................  High Altitude Medical            $3,600,000
                                                                      Research Center..........
Germany................................  Ramstein AB...............  Replace Vogelweh                $61,415,000
                                                                      Elementary School........
Hawaii.................................  Joint Base Pearl Harbor-    SOF SDVT-1 Waterfront           $22,384,000
                                          Hickam...................   Operations Facility......
Japan..................................  CFAS Sasebo...............  Replace Sasebo Elementary       $35,733,000
                                                                      School...................
                                         Camp Zama.................  Renovate Zama High School.      $13,273,000
Pennsylvania...........................  DEF Distribution Depot New  Replace reservoir.........       $4,300,000
                                          Cumberland...............
United Kingdom.........................  RAF Feltwell..............  Feltwell Elementary School      $30,811,000
                                                                      Addition.................
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2407. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
FISCAL YEAR 2014 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in the table in section 
2401(a) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 995) for Fort Knox, 
Kentucky, for construction of an Ambulatory Care Center at that 
location, subsequently cancelled by the Department of Defense, 
substitute authorization is provided for a 102,000-square foot Medical 
Clinic Replacement at that location in the amount of $80,000,000, using 
appropriations available for the original project pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in section 2403 of such Act (127 Stat. 
997). This substitute authorization shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2018, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2019.
SEC. 2408. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2015 PROJECT.
    In the case of the authorization contained in section 2401(b) of 
the Carl Levin and Howard P. ``Buck'' McKeon National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3682), for Brussels, Belgium, for construction of an 
elementary/high school, the Secretary of Defense may acquire 
approximately 7.4 acres of land adjacent to the existing Sterrebeek 
Dependent School site and construct a multi-sport athletic field, 
track, perimeter road, parking, and fencing.

   TITLE XXV--NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION SECURITY INVESTMENT 
                                PROGRAM

Sec. 2501. Authorized NATO construction and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2502. Authorization of appropriations, NATO.
SEC. 2501. AUTHORIZED NATO CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    The Secretary of Defense may make contributions for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program as provided in 
section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, in an amount not to 
exceed the sum of the amount authorized to be appropriated for this 
purpose in section 2502 and the amount collected from the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization as a result of construction previously 
financed by the United States.
SEC. 2502. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATO.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2015, for contributions by the Secretary 
of Defense under section 2806 of title 10, United States Code, for the 
share of the United States of the cost of projects for the North 
Atlantic Treaty Organization Security Investment Program authorized by 
section 2501 as specified in the funding table in section 4601.

            TITLE XXVI--GUARD AND RESERVE FORCES FACILITIES

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

Sec. 2601. Authorized Army National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2602. Authorized Army Reserve construction and land acquisition 
          projects.
Sec. 2603. Authorized Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve construction 
          and land acquisition projects.
Sec. 2604. Authorized Air National Guard construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2605. Authorized Air Force Reserve construction and land 
          acquisition projects.
Sec. 2606. Authorization of appropriations, National Guard and Reserve.

                        Subtitle B--Other Matters

Sec. 2611. Modification and extension of authority to carry out certain 
          fiscal year 2013 project.
Sec. 2612. Modification of authority to carry out certain fiscal year 
          2015 projects.
Sec. 2613. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2012 
          projects.
Sec. 2614. Extension of authorizations of certain fiscal year 2013 
          projects.

 Subtitle A--Project Authorizations and Authorization of Appropriations

SEC. 2601. AUTHORIZED ARMY NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and carry out military 
construction projects for the Army National Guard locations inside the 
United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Army National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                          Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.........................................  Camp Foley...................................       $4,500,000
Connecticut.....................................  Camp Hartell.................................      $11,000,000
Florida.........................................  Palm Coast...................................      $18,000,000
Georgia.........................................  Fort Stewart.................................       $6,800,000
Illinois........................................  Sparta.......................................       $1,900,000
Kansas..........................................  Salina.......................................       $6,700,000
Maryland........................................  Easton.......................................      $13,800,000
Mississippi.....................................  Gulfport.....................................      $40,000,000
Nevada..........................................  Reno.........................................       $8,000,000
Ohio............................................  Camp Ravenna.................................       $3,300,000
Oregon..........................................  Salem........................................      $16,500,000
Pennsylvania....................................  Fort Indiantown Gap..........................      $16,000,000
Vermont.........................................  North Hyde Park..............................       $7,900,000
Virginia........................................  Richmond.....................................      $29,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2602. AUTHORIZED ARMY RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Inside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available 
for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and 
carry out military construction projects for the Army Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                 Army Reserve: Inside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            State                      Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
California..................  Miramar..................      $24,000,000
Florida.....................  MacDill Air Force Base...      $55,000,000
New York....................  Orangeburg...............       $4,200,000
Pennsylvania................  Conneaut Lake............       $5,000,000
Virginia....................  A.P. Hill................      $24,000,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


    (b) Outside the United States.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant 
to the authorization of appropriations in section 2606 and available 
for the National Guard and Reserve as specified in the funding table in 
section 4601, the Secretary of the Army may acquire real property and 
carry out a military construction project for the Army Reserve location 
outside the United States, and in the amount, set forth in the 
following table:

                 Army Reserve: Outside the United States
------------------------------------------------------------------------
           Country                     Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Puerto Rico.................  Fort Buchanan............      $10,200,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2603. AUTHORIZED NAVY RESERVE AND MARINE CORPS RESERVE 
CONSTRUCTION AND LAND ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the Navy may 
acquire real property and carry out military construction projects for 
the Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve locations inside the United 
States, and in the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                      Navy Reserve and Marine Corps Reserve
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Nevada..........................................  Fallon.....................................        $11,480,000
New York........................................  Brooklyn...................................         $2,479,000
Virginia........................................   Dam Neck..................................        $18,443,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2604. AUTHORIZED AIR NATIONAL GUARD CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in section 4601, the Secretary of the Air Force 
may acquire real property and carry out military construction projects 
for the Air National Guard locations inside the United States, and in 
the amounts, set forth in the following table:

                                               Air National Guard
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      State                                         Location                         Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Alabama.........................................  Dannelly Field.............................         $7,600,000
California......................................  Moffett Field..............................         $6,500,000
Colorado........................................   Buckley Air Force Base....................         $5,100,000
Florida.........................................  Cape Canaveral Air Force Station...........         $6,100,000
Georgia.........................................   Savannah/Hilton Head International Airport         $9,000,000
Iowa............................................  Des Moines Municipal Airport...............         $6,700,000
Kansas..........................................  Smokey Hill Range..........................         $2,900,000
Louisiana.......................................  New Orleans................................        $10,000,000
Maine...........................................  Bangor International Airport...............         $7,200,000
New Hampshire...................................  Pease International Trade Port.............         $2,800,000
New Jersey......................................  Atlantic City International Airport........        $10,200,000
New York........................................  Niagara Falls International Airport........         $7,700,000
North Carolina..................................  Charlotte/Douglas International Airport....         $9,000,000
North Dakota....................................  Hector International Airport...............         $7,300,000
Oklahoma........................................  Will Rogers World Airport..................         $7,600,000
Oregon..........................................  Klamath Falls International Airport........         $7,200,000
West Virginia...................................  Yeager Airport.............................         $3,900,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2605. AUTHORIZED AIR FORCE RESERVE CONSTRUCTION AND LAND 
ACQUISITION PROJECTS.
    Using amounts appropriated pursuant to the authorization of 
appropriations in section 2606 and available for the National Guard and 
Reserve as specified in the funding table in section 4601, the 
Secretary of the Air Force may acquire real property and carry out 
military construction projects for the Air Force Reserve locations 
inside the United States, and in the amounts, set forth in the 
following table:

                            Air Force Reserve
------------------------------------------------------------------------
            State                      Location               Amount
------------------------------------------------------------------------
 California.................  March Air Force Base.....       $4,600,000
Florida.....................  Patrick Air Force Base...       $3,400,000
Georgia.....................  Dobbins Air Reserve Base.      $10,400,000
Ohio........................  Youngstown...............       $9,400,000
Texas.......................  Joint Base San Antonio...       $9,900,000
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2606. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS, NATIONAL GUARD AND RESERVE.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2015, for the costs of acquisition, 
architectural and engineering services, and construction of facilities 
for the Guard and Reserve Forces, and for contributions therefor, under 
chapter 1803 of title 10, United States Code (including the cost of 
acquisition of land for those facilities), as specified in the funding 
table in section 4601.

                       Subtitle B--Other Matters

SEC. 2611. MODIFICATION AND EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN 
FISCAL YEAR 2013 PROJECT.
    (a) Modification.--In the case of the authorization contained in 
the table in section 2602 of the Military Construction Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2135) for Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, for construction of an 
Army Reserve Center at that location, the Secretary of the Army may 
construct a new facility in the vicinity of Aberdeen Proving Ground, 
Maryland.
    (b) Duration of Authority.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the 
Military Construction Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of Public 
Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorization set forth in subsection 
(a) shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or the date of the 
enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military construction for 
fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
SEC. 2612. MODIFICATION OF AUTHORITY TO CARRY OUT CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 
2015 PROJECTS.
    (a) Davis-Monthan Air Force Base.--In the case of the authorization 
contained in the table in section 2605 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3689) for Davis-Monthan Air Force Base, Arizona, for 
construction of a Guardian Angel Operations facility at that location, 
the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a new 5,913 square meter 
(63,647 square foot) facility in the amount of $18,200,000.
    (b) Fort Smith.--In the case of the authorization contained in the 
table in section 2604 of the Military Construction Authorization Act 
for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3689) 
for Fort Smith Municipal Airport, Arkansas, for construction of a 
consolidated Secure Compartmented Information Facility at that 
location, the Secretary of the Air Force may construct a new facility 
in the amount of $15,200,000.
SEC. 2613. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2012 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (division B of 
Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1660), the authorizations set forth in the 
table in subsection (b), as provided in section 2602 of that Act (125 
Stat. 1678), and extended by section 2611 of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3690), shall remain in effect until October 1, 2016, or 
the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing funds for military 
construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is as follows:

                              Extension of 2012 Army Reserve Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                            Location                     Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Kansas..................................  Kansas City...............  Army Reserve Center.......     $13,000,000
Massachusetts...........................  Attleboro.................  Army Reserve Center.......     $22,000,000
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 2614. EXTENSION OF AUTHORIZATIONS OF CERTAIN FISCAL YEAR 2013 
PROJECTS.
    (a) Extension.--Notwithstanding section 2002 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (division B of 
Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2118), the authorizations set forth in 
the table in subsection (b), as provided in sections 2601, 2602, and 
2603 of that Act (126 Stat. 2134, 2135) shall remain in effect until 
October 1, 2016, or the date of the enactment of an Act authorizing 
funds for military construction for fiscal year 2017, whichever is 
later.
    (b) Table.--The table referred to in subsection (a) is a follows:

                       Extension of 2013 National Guard and Reserve Project Authorizations
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  State                    Installation or Location             Project               Amount
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Arizona.................................  Yuma......................  Reserve Training Facility.      $5,379,000
California..............................  Tustin....................  Army Reserve Center.......     $27,000,000
Iowa....................................  Fort Des Moines...........  Joint Reserve Center......     $19,162,000
Louisiana...............................  New Orleans...............  Transient Quarters........      $7,187,000
New York................................  Camp Smith (Stormville)...  Combined Support               $24,000,000
                                                                       Maintenance Shop Phase 1.
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


          TITLE XXVII--BASE REALIGNMENT AND CLOSURE ACTIVITIES

Sec. 2701. Authorization of appropriations for base realignment and 
          closure activities funded through Department of Defense base 
          closure account.
Sec. 2702. Prohibition on conducting additional Base Realignment and 
          Closure (BRAC) round.
SEC. 2701. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE ACTIVITIES FUNDED THROUGH DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE BASE CLOSURE 
ACCOUNT.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal years 
beginning after September 30, 2015, for base realignment and closure 
activities, including real property acquisition and military 
construction projects, as authorized by the Defense Base Closure and 
Realignment Act of 1990 (part A of title XXIX of Public Law 101-510; 10 
U.S.C. 2687 note) and funded through the Department of Defense Base 
Closure Account established by section 2906 of such Act (as amended by 
section 2711 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2013 (division B of Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2140)), as 
specified in the funding table in section 4601.
SEC. 2702. PROHIBITION ON CONDUCTING ADDITIONAL BASE REALIGNMENT AND 
CLOSURE (BRAC) ROUND.
    Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize an additional 
Base Realignment and Closure (BRAC) round.

         TITLE XXVIII--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION GENERAL PROVISIONS

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                 Changes

Sec. 2801. Revision of congressional notification thresholds for reserve 
          facility expenditures and contributions to reflect 
          congressional notification thresholds for minor construction 
          and repair projects.
Sec. 2802. Extension of temporary, limited authority to use operation 
          and maintenance funds for construction projects outside the 
          United States.
Sec. 2803. Defense laboratory modernization pilot program.
Sec. 2804. Temporary authority for acceptance and use of contributions 
          for certain construction, maintenance, and repair projects 
          mutually beneficial to the Department of Defense and Kuwait 
          military forces.
Sec. 2805. Conveyance to Indian tribes of relocatable military housing 
          units at military installations in the United States.

         Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

Sec. 2811. Protection of Department of Defense installations.
Sec. 2812. Enhancement of authority to accept conditional gifts of real 
          property on behalf of military service academies.
Sec. 2813. Utility system conveyance authority.
Sec. 2814. Leasing of non-excess property of military departments and 
          Defense Agencies; treatment of value provided by local 
          education agencies and elementary and secondary schools.
Sec. 2815. Force-structure plan and infrastructure inventory and 
          assessment of infrastructure necessary to support the force 
          structure.
Sec. 2816. Temporary reporting requirements related to main operating 
          bases, forward operating sites, and cooperative security 
          locations.
Sec. 2817. Exemption of Army off-site use and off-site removal only non-
          mobile properties from certain excess property disposal 
          requirements.

   Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment

Sec. 2821. Limited exception to restriction on development of public 
          infrastructure in connection with realignment of Marine Corps 
          forces in Asia-Pacific region.
Sec. 2822. Annual report on Government of Japan contributions toward 
          realignment of Marine Corps forces in Asia-Pacific region.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

Sec. 2831. Release of reversionary interest retained as part of 
          conveyance to the Economic Development Alliance of Jefferson 
          County, Arkansas.
Sec. 2832. Land exchange authority, Mare Island Army Reserve Center, 
          Vallejo, California.
Sec. 2833. Land exchange, Navy Outlying Landing Field, Naval Air 
          Station, Whiting Field, Florida.
Sec. 2834. Release of property interests retained in connection with 
          land conveyance, Camp Villere, Louisiana.
Sec. 2835. Release of property interests retained in connection with 
          land conveyance, Fort Bliss Military Reservation, Texas.

                  Subtitle E--Military Land Withdrawals

Sec. 2841. Additional withdrawal and reservation of public land, Naval 
          Air Weapons Station China Lake, California.

                        Subtitle F--Other Matters

Sec. 2851. Modification of Department of Defense guidance on use of 
          airfield pavement markings.
Sec. 2852. Extension of authority for establishment of commemorative 
          work in honor of Brigadier General Francis Marion.

 Subtitle A--Military Construction Program and Military Family Housing 
                                Changes

SEC. 2801. REVISION OF CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION THRESHOLDS FOR 
RESERVE FACILITY EXPENDITURES AND CONTRIBUTIONS TO REFLECT 
CONGRESSIONAL NOTIFICATION THRESHOLDS FOR MINOR CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR 
PROJECTS.
    Section 18233a of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``in an amount in excess of 
    $750,000'' and inserting ``in excess of the amount specified in 
    section 2805(b)(1) of this title''; and
        (2) in subsection (b)(3), by striking ``section 2811(e) of this 
    title) that costs less than $7,500,000'' and inserting ``subsection 
    (e) of section 2811 of this title) that costs less than the amount 
    specified in subsection (d) of such section''.
SEC. 2802. EXTENSION OF TEMPORARY, LIMITED AUTHORITY TO USE OPERATION 
AND MAINTENANCE FUNDS FOR CONSTRUCTION PROJECTS OUTSIDE THE UNITED 
STATES.
    (a) Extension of Authority.--Subsection (h) of section 2808 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 (division 
B of Public Law 108-136; 117 Stat. 1723), as most recently amended by 
section 2806 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-291; 128 Stat. 3699), is 
amended--
        (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and 
    inserting ``December 31, 2016''; and
        (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and 
    inserting ``fiscal year 2017''.
    (b) Limitation on Use of Authority.--Subsection (c)(1) of such 
section is amended--
        (1) by striking ``October 1, 2014'' and inserting ``October 1, 
    2015'';
        (2) by striking ``December 31, 2015'' and inserting ``December 
    31, 2016''; and
        (3) by striking ``fiscal year 2016'' and inserting ``fiscal 
    year 2017''.
    (c) Elimination of Reporting Requirement.--Such section is further 
amended by striking subsection (d).
SEC. 2803. DEFENSE LABORATORY MODERNIZATION PILOT PROGRAM.
    (a) Authority to Use Research, Development, Test, and Evaluation 
Funds.--Using amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to the 
Department of Defense for research, development, test, and evaluation, 
the Secretary of Defense may fund a military construction project 
described in subsection (d) at any of the following:
        (1) A Department of Defense Science and Technology Reinvention 
    Laboratory (as designated by section 1105(a) of the National 
    Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2010 (Public Law 111-84; 
    10 U.S.C. 2358 note).
        (2) A Department of Defense Federally Funded Research and 
    Development Center that functions primarily as a research 
    laboratory.
        (3) A Department of Defense facility in support of a technology 
    development program that is consistent with the fielding of offset 
    technologies as described in section 218 of this Act.
    (b) Condition on and Scope of Project Authority.--Subject to the 
condition that a military construction project under this section be 
authorized in a Military Construction Authorization Act, the authority 
to carry out the military construction project includes authority for--
        (1) surveys, site preparation, and advanced planning and 
    design;
        (2) acquisition, conversion, rehabilitation, and installation 
    of facilities;
        (3) acquisition and installation of equipment and appurtenances 
    integral to the project; acquisition and installation of supporting 
    facilities (including utilities) and appurtenances incident to the 
    project; and
        (4) planning, supervision, administration, and overhead 
    expenses incident to the project.
    (c) Congressional Notification Requirements.--
        (1) Submission of project requests.--The Secretary of Defense 
    shall include military construction projects proposed to be carried 
    out under this section in the budget justification documents for 
    the Department of Defense submitted to Congress in connection with 
    the budget for a fiscal year submitted under 1105 of title 31, 
    United States Code.
        (2) Notification of implementation.--Not less than 14 days 
    prior to the first obligation of funds described in subsection (a) 
    for a military construction project to be carried out under this 
    section, the Secretary of Defense shall submit a notification to 
    the congressional defense committees providing an updated 
    construction description, cost, and schedule for the project and 
    any other matters regarding the project as the Secretary considers 
    appropriate.
    (d) Authorized Projects Described.--The authority provided by this 
section to fund military construction projects using amounts 
appropriated or otherwise made available for research, development, 
test, and evaluation is limited to military construction projects that 
the Secretary of Defense, in the budget justification documents 
exhibits submitted pursuant to subsection (c)(1), determines--
        (1) will support research and development activities at 
    laboratories described in subsection (a);
        (2) will establish facilities that will have significant 
    potential for use by entities outside the Department of Defense, 
    including universities, industrial partners, and other Federal 
    agencies;
        (3) are endorsed for funding by more than one military 
    department or Defense Agency; and
        (4) cannot be fully funded within the thresholds specified in 
    section 2805 of title 10, United States Code.
    (e) Funding Limitation.--The maximum amount of funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available for research, development, test, and 
evaluation that may be obligated in any fiscal year for military 
construction projects under this section is $150,000,000.
    (f) Termination of Authority.--The authority provided by this 
section to fund military construction projects using funds appropriated 
or otherwise made available for research, development, test, and 
evaluation shall terminate on October 1, 2020.
SEC. 2804. TEMPORARY AUTHORITY FOR ACCEPTANCE AND USE OF CONTRIBUTIONS 
FOR CERTAIN CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, AND REPAIR PROJECTS MUTUALLY 
BENEFICIAL TO THE DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE AND KUWAIT MILITARY FORCES.
    (a) Authority To Accept Contributions.--The Secretary of Defense, 
after consultation with the Secretary of State, may accept cash 
contributions from the government of Kuwait for the purpose of paying 
for the costs of construction (including military construction not 
otherwise authorized by law), maintenance, and repair projects mutually 
beneficial to the Department of Defense and Kuwait military forces.
    (b) Accounting.--Contributions accepted under subsection (a) shall 
be placed in an account established by the Secretary of Defense and 
shall remain available until expended as provided in such subsection.
    (c) Prohibition on Use of Contributions To Offset Burden Sharing 
Contributions.--Contributions accepted under subsection (a) may not be 
used to offset any burden sharing contributions made by the government 
of Kuwait.
    (d) Notice.--When a decision is made to carry out a project using 
contributions accepted under subsection (a) and the estimated cost of 
the project will exceed the thresholds prescribed by section 2805 of 
title 10, United States Code, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives written notice of decision, the justification 
for the project, and the estimated cost of the project.
    (e) Mutually Beneficial Defined.--A project described in subsection 
(a) shall be considered to be ``mutually beneficial'' if--
        (1) the project is in support of a bilateral defense 
    cooperation agreement between the United States and the government 
    of Kuwait; or
        (2) the Secretary of Defense determines that the United States 
    may derive a benefit from the project, including--
            (A) access to and use of facilities of the Kuwait military 
        forces;
            (B) ability or capacity for future force posture; and
            (C) increased interoperability between the Department of 
        Defense and Kuwait military forces.
    (f) Expiration of Project Authority.--The authority to carry out 
projects under this section expires on September 30, 2020. The 
expiration of the authority does not prevent the continuation of any 
project commenced before that date.
SEC. 2805. CONVEYANCE TO INDIAN TRIBES OF RELOCATABLE MILITARY HOUSING 
UNITS AT MILITARY INSTALLATIONS IN THE UNITED STATES.
    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Executive director.--The term ``Executive Director'' means 
    the Executive Director of Walking Shield, Inc.
        (2) Indian tribe.--The term ``Indian tribe'' means any Indian 
    tribe included on the list published by the Secretary of the 
    Interior under section 104 of the Federally Recognized Indian Tribe 
    List Act of 1994 (25 U.S.C. 479a-1).
    (b) Requests for Conveyance.--
        (1) In general.--The Executive Director may submit to the 
    Secretary of the military department concerned, on behalf of any 
    Indian tribe, a request for conveyance of any relocatable military 
    housing unit located at a military installation in the United 
    States.
        (2) Conflicts.--The Executive Director shall resolve any 
    conflict among requests of Indian tribes for housing units 
    described in paragraph (1) before submitting a request to the 
    Secretary of the military department concerned under this 
    subsection.
    (c) Conveyance by a Secretary.--Notwithstanding any other provision 
of law, on receipt of a request under subsection (b)(1), the Secretary 
of the military department concerned may convey to the Indian tribe 
that is the subject of the request, at no cost to such military 
department and without consideration, any relocatable military housing 
unit described in subsection (b)(1) that, as determined by such 
Secretary, is in excess of the needs of the military.

        Subtitle B--Real Property and Facilities Administration

SEC. 2811. PROTECTION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE INSTALLATIONS.
    (a) Secretary of Defense Responsibility.--Chapter 159 of title 10, 
United States Code, is amended by inserting after section 2671 the 
following new section:
``Sec. 2672. Protection of buildings, grounds, property, and persons
    ``(a) Secretary of Defense Responsibility.--The Secretary of 
Defense shall protect the buildings, grounds, and property that are 
under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of the Department of 
Defense and the persons on that property.
    ``(b) Designation of Officers and Agents.--(1) The Secretary of 
Defense may designate military or civilian personnel of the Department 
of Defense as officers and agents to perform the functions of the 
Secretary under subsection (a), including, with regard to civilian 
officers and agents, duty in areas outside the property specified in 
that subsection to the extent necessary to protect that property and 
persons on that property.
    ``(2) A designation under paragraph (1) may be made by individual, 
by position, by installation, or by such other category of personnel as 
the Secretary determines appropriate.
    ``(3) In making a designation under paragraph (1) with respect to 
any category of personnel, the Secretary shall specify each of the 
following:
        ``(A) The personnel or positions to be included in the 
    category.
        ``(B) The authorities provided for in subsection (c) that may 
    be exercised by personnel in that category.
        ``(C) In the case of civilian personnel in that category--
            ``(i) the authorities provided for in subsection (c), if 
        any, that are authorized to be exercised outside the property 
        specified in subsection (a); and
            ``(ii) with respect to the exercise of any such authorities 
        outside the property specified in subsection (a), the 
        circumstances under which coordination with law enforcement 
        officials outside of the Department of Defense should be sought 
        in advance.
    ``(4) The Secretary may make a designation under paragraph (1) only 
if the Secretary determines, with respect to the category of personnel 
to be covered by that designation, that--
        ``(A) the exercise of each specific authority provided for in 
    subsection (c) to be delegated to that category of personnel is 
    necessary for the performance of the duties of the personnel in 
    that category and such duties cannot be performed as effectively 
    without such authorities; and
        ``(B) the necessary and proper training for the authorities to 
    be exercised is available to the personnel in that category.
    ``(c) Authorized Activities.--Subject to subsection (i) and to the 
extent specifically authorized by the Secretary of Defense, while 
engaged in the performance of official duties pursuant to this section, 
an officer or agent designated under subsection (b) may--
        ``(1) enforce Federal laws and regulations for the protection 
    of persons and property;
        ``(2) carry firearms;
        ``(3) make arrests--
            ``(A) without a warrant for any offense against the United 
        States committed in the presence of the officer or agent; or
            ``(B) for any felony cognizable under the laws of the 
        United States if the officer or agent has reasonable grounds to 
        believe that the person to be arrested has committed or is 
        committing a felony;
        ``(4) serve warrants and subpoenas issued under the authority 
    of the United States; and
        ``(5) conduct investigations, on and off the property in 
    question, of offenses that may have been committed against property 
    under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of the Department of 
    Defense or persons on such property.
    ``(d) Regulations.--(1) The Secretary of Defense may prescribe 
regulations, including traffic regulations, necessary for the 
protection and administration of property under the jurisdiction, 
custody, or control of the Department of Defense and persons on that 
property. The regulations may include reasonable penalties, within the 
limits prescribed in paragraph (2), for violations of the regulations. 
The regulations shall be posted and remain posted in a conspicuous 
place on the property to which they apply.
    ``(2) A person violating a regulation prescribed under this 
subsection shall be fined under title 18, imprisoned for not more than 
30 days, or both.
    ``(e) Limitation on Delegation of Authority.--The authority of the 
Secretary of Defense under subsections (b), (c), and (d) may be 
exercised only by the Secretary or the Deputy Secretary of Defense.
    ``(f) Disposition of Persons Arrested.--A person who is arrested 
pursuant to authority exercised under subsection (b) may not be held in 
a military confinement facility, other than in the case of a person who 
is subject to chapter 47 of this title (the Uniform Code of Military 
Justice).
    ``(g) Facilities and Services of Other Agencies.--In implementing 
this section, when the Secretary of Defense determines it to be 
economical and in the public interest, the Secretary may utilize the 
facilities and services of Federal, State, Indian tribal, and local law 
enforcement agencies, with the consent of those agencies, and may 
reimburse those agencies for the use of their facilities and services. 
Such services of State, Indian tribal, and local law enforcement, 
including application of their powers of law enforcement, may be 
provided notwithstanding that the property is subject to the 
legislative jurisdiction of the United States.
    ``(h) Authority Outside Federal Property.--For the protection of 
property under the jurisdiction, custody, or control of the Department 
of Defense and persons on that property, the Secretary of Defense may 
enter into agreements with Federal agencies and with State, Indian 
tribal, and local governments to obtain authority for civilian officers 
and agents designated under this section to enforce Federal laws and 
State, Indian tribal, and local laws concurrently with other Federal 
law enforcement officers and with State, Indian tribal, and local law 
enforcement officers.
    ``(i) Attorney General Approval.--The powers granted pursuant to 
subsection (c) to officers and agents designated under subsection (b) 
shall be exercised in accordance with guidelines approved by the 
Attorney General. Such guidelines may include specification of the 
geographical extent of property outside of the property specified in 
subsection (a) within which those powers may be exercised.
    ``(j) Limitation With Regard to Other Federal Agencies.--Nothing in 
this section shall be construed as affecting the authority of the 
Secretary of Homeland Security to provide for the protection of 
facilities (including the buildings, grounds, and properties of the 
General Services Administration) that are under the jurisdiction, 
custody, or control, in whole or in part, of a Federal agency other 
than the Department of Defense and that are located off of a military 
installation.
    ``(k) Cooperation With Local Law Enforcement Agencies.--Before 
authorizing civilian officers and agents to perform duty in areas 
outside the property specified in subsection (a), the Secretary of 
Defense shall consult with, and is encouraged to enter into agreements 
with, local law enforcement agencies exercising jurisdiction over such 
areas for the purposes of avoiding conflicts of jurisdiction, promoting 
notification of planned law enforcement actions, and otherwise 
facilitating productive working relationships.
    ``(l) Limitation on Statutory Construction.--Nothing in this 
section shall be construed--
        ``(1) to preclude or limit the authority of any Federal law 
    enforcement agency;
        ``(2) to restrict the authority of the Secretary of Homeland 
    Security under the Homeland Security Act of 2002 or of the 
    Administrator of General Services, including the authority to 
    promulgate regulations affecting property under the custody and 
    control of that Secretary or the Administrator, respectively;
        ``(3) to expand or limit section 21 of the Internal Security 
    Act of 1950 (50 U.S.C. 797);
        ``(4) to affect chapter 47 of this title;
        ``(5) to restrict any other authority of the Secretary of 
    Defense or the Secretary of a military department; or
        ``(6) to restrict the authority of the Director of the National 
    Security Agency under section 11 of the National Security Agency 
    Act of 1959 (50 U.S.C. 3609).''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of sections at the beginning of 
chapter 159 of such title is amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 2671 the following new item:

``2672. Protection of buildings, grounds, property, and persons.''.
SEC. 2812. ENHANCEMENT OF AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT CONDITIONAL GIFTS OF REAL 
PROPERTY ON BEHALF OF MILITARY SERVICE ACADEMIES.
    Section 2601 of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsections (e), (f), (g), (h), and (i) as 
    subsections (f), (g), (h), (i), and (j), respectively; and
        (2) by inserting after subsection (d) the following new 
    subsection (e):
    ``(e) Acceptance of Real Property Gifts; Naming Rights.--(1) The 
Secretary concerned may accept a gift under subsection (a) or (b) 
consisting of the provision, acquisition, enhancement, or construction 
of real property offered to the United States Military Academy, the 
Naval Academy, the Air Force Academy, or the Coast Guard Academy even 
though the gift will be subject to the condition that the real 
property, or a portion thereof, bear a specified name.
    ``(2) The authority conferred by this subsection may be delegated 
by the Secretary concerned only to a civilian official appointed by the 
President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    ``(3) A gift may not be accepted under paragraph (1) if--
        ``(A) the acceptance of the gift or the imposition of the 
    naming-rights condition would reflect unfavorably upon the United 
    States, as provided in subsection (d)(2); or
        ``(B) the real property to be subject to the condition, or 
    portion thereof, has been named by an act of Congress.
    ``(4) The Secretaries concerned shall issue uniform regulations 
governing the circumstances under which gifts conditioned on naming 
rights may be accepted, appropriate naming conventions, and suitable 
display standards.''.
SEC. 2813. UTILITY SYSTEM CONVEYANCE AUTHORITY.
    Section 2688(j) of title 10, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Construction of'' 
    and inserting ``Conveyance of Additional''; and
        (2) in paragraph (1)--
            (A) by striking subparagraphs (A) and (C);
            (B) by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (A) 
        and, in such subparagraph, by striking ``utility system;'' and 
        inserting the following: ``utility system or operation of the 
        additional utility infrastructure by the utility or entity 
        would be in the best interest of the Government; and''; and
            (C) by redesignating subparagraph (D) as subparagraph (B) 
        and, in such subparagraph, by striking ``amount equal to the 
        fair market value of'' and inserting ``amount for''.
SEC. 2814. LEASING OF NON-EXCESS PROPERTY OF MILITARY DEPARTMENTS AND 
DEFENSE AGENCIES; TREATMENT OF VALUE PROVIDED BY LOCAL EDUCATION 
AGENCIES AND ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY SCHOOLS.
    Section 2667 of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding 
at the end the following new subsection:
    ``(k) Leases for Education.--Notwithstanding subsection (b)(4), the 
Secretary concerned may accept consideration in an amount that is less 
than the fair market value of the lease, if the lease is to a local 
education agency or an elementary or secondary school (as those terms 
are defined in section 9101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 7801)).''.
SEC. 2815. FORCE-STRUCTURE PLAN AND INFRASTRUCTURE INVENTORY AND 
ASSESSMENT OF INFRASTRUCTURE NECESSARY TO SUPPORT THE FORCE STRUCTURE.
    (a) Preparation and Submission of Force-structure Plans and 
Infrastructure Inventory.--Not later than the date on which the budget 
of the President for fiscal year 2017 is submitted to Congress pursuant 
to section 1105 of title 31, Unites States Code, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees the 
following:
        (1) A force-structure plan for each of the Army, Navy, Air 
    Force, and Marine Corps informed by--
            (A) an assessment by the Secretary of Defense of the 
        probable threats to United States national security; and
            (B) end-strength levels and major military force units 
        (including land force divisions, carrier and other major 
        combatant vessels, air wings, and other comparable units) 
        authorized in the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
        Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81).
        (2) A categorical inventory of world-wide military 
    installations for each military department, including the number 
    and type of facilities for the regular and reserve forces of each 
    military department.
    (b) Relationship of Plans and Inventory.--Using the force-structure 
plans and categorical infrastructure inventory prepared under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall prepare (and include as 
part of the submission of such plans and inventory) the following:
        (1) A description of the infrastructure necessary to support 
    the force structure described in each force-structure plan.
        (2) A discussion of categories of excess infrastructure and 
    infrastructure capacity.
        (3) An assessment of the value of retaining certain excess 
    infrastructure to accommodate contingency, mobilization, or surge 
    requirements.
    (c) Comptroller General Evaluation.--Not later than 60 days after 
the date of the submission of the force-structure plans and the 
categorical infrastructure inventory under subsection (a), the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees an evaluation of the force-structure 
plans and the categorical infrastructure inventory, including an 
evaluation of the accuracy and analytical sufficiency of the plans and 
inventory.
SEC. 2816. TEMPORARY REPORTING REQUIREMENTS RELATED TO MAIN OPERATING 
BASES, FORWARD OPERATING SITES, AND COOPERATIVE SECURITY LOCATIONS.
    (a) Reports Required.--Not later than the date on which the report 
required by section 2687a of title 10, United States Code, is submitted 
for each of the fiscal years 2016 through 2020, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees, the 
Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate, and the Committee on 
Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives a report specifying 
each location that was newly designated, or had a change in its 
designation, as a main operating base, forward operating site, or 
cooperative security location during the preceding fiscal year.
    (b) Elements.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
include, at a minimum, the following:
        (1) The strategic goal and operational requirements supported 
    by the main operating base, forward operating site, or cooperative 
    security location.
        (2) The basis for and cost of any anticipated infrastructure 
    improvements to the base, site, or location.
        (3) A summary of the terms of agreements with the host nation 
    regarding the base, site, or location, including access agreements, 
    status of forces agreements, or other implementing agreements, 
    including any limitations on United States presence and operations.
    (c) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex 
as necessary.
SEC. 2817. EXEMPTION OF ARMY OFF-SITE USE AND OFF-SITE REMOVAL ONLY 
NON-MOBILE PROPERTIES FROM CERTAIN EXCESS PROPERTY DISPOSAL 
REQUIREMENTS.
    (a) In General.--Excess or unutilized or underutilized non-mobile 
property of the Army that is situated on non-excess land shall be 
exempt from the requirements of title V of the McKinney-Vento Homeless 
Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 11411 et seq.) upon a determination by the 
Secretary of the Army that--
        (1) the property is not feasible to relocate;
        (2) the property is located in an area to which the general 
    public is denied access in the interest of national security; and
        (3) the exemption would facilitate the efficient disposal of 
    excess property or result in more efficient real property 
    management.
    (b) Consultation.--Before making an initial determination under the 
authority provided under subsection (a), and periodically thereafter, 
the Secretary of the Army shall consult with the Executive Director of 
the United States Interagency Council on Homelessness on types of non-
mobile properties that may be feasible for relocation and suitable to 
assist the homeless.
    (c) Sunset.--The authority of the Secretary of the Army to make a 
determination under subsection (a) expires on September 30, 2017.

  Subtitle C--Provisions Related to Asia-Pacific Military Realignment

SEC. 2821. LIMITED EXCEPTION TO RESTRICTION ON DEVELOPMENT OF PUBLIC 
INFRASTRUCTURE IN CONNECTION WITH REALIGNMENT OF MARINE CORPS FORCES IN 
ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.
    Notwithstanding section 2821(b) of the Military Construction 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2015 (division B of Public Law 113-
291; 128 Stat. 3701), the Secretary of Defense may proceed with a 
public infrastructure project intended to improve water and wastewater 
systems on Guam if--
        (1) the project was identified in the report prepared by the 
    Secretary of Defense under section 2822(d)(2) of the Military 
    Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of 
    Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1017); and
        (2) amounts have been appropriated or made available to be 
    expended by the Department of Defense for the project.
SEC. 2822. ANNUAL REPORT ON GOVERNMENT OF JAPAN CONTRIBUTIONS TOWARD 
REALIGNMENT OF MARINE CORPS FORCES IN ASIA-PACIFIC REGION.
    (a) Report Required.--Not later than the date of the submission of 
the budget of the President for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2026 
under section 1105 of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of 
Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
that specifies each of the following:
        (1) The total amount contributed by the Government of Japan 
    during the most recently concluded Japanese fiscal year under 
    section 2350k of title 10, United States Code, for deposit in the 
    Support for United States Relocation to Guam Account.
        (2) The anticipated contributions to be made by the Government 
    of Japan under such section during the current and next Japanese 
    fiscal years.
        (3) The projects carried out on Guam or the Commonwealth of the 
    Northern Mariana Islands during the previous fiscal year using 
    amounts in the Support for United States Relocation to Guam 
    Account.
        (4) The anticipated projects that will be carried out on Guam 
    or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands during the 
    fiscal year covered by the budget submission using amounts in such 
    Account.
    (b) Form of Report.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall 
be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex 
as necessary.
    (c) Repeal of Superseded Reporting Requirement.--Subsection (e) of 
section 2824 of the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal 
Year 2009 (division B of Public Law 110-417; 10 U.S.C. 2687 note) is 
repealed.

                      Subtitle D--Land Conveyances

SEC. 2831. RELEASE OF REVERSIONARY INTEREST RETAINED AS PART OF 
CONVEYANCE TO THE ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ALLIANCE OF JEFFERSON COUNTY, 
ARKANSAS.
    (a) Release of Conditions and Retained Interests.--With respect to 
a parcel of real property in Jefferson County, Arkansas, consisting of 
approximately 1,447 acres and conveyed by deed to the Economic 
Development Alliance of Jefferson County, Arkansas (in this section 
referred to as the ``Economic Development Alliance'') by the United 
States for use as the facility known as the ``Bioplex'' and related 
activities pursuant to section 2827 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997 (Public Law 104-201), the 
Secretary of the Army may release subject to the conditions of 
subsections (b) and (d) below, the conditions of conveyance of 
subsection (c) of such section 2827 and the reversionary interest 
retained by the United States under subsection (e) of such section.
    (b) Consideration.--
        (1) Effect of reconveyance.--Notwithstanding subsection (d) of 
    such section 2827, the release authorized by subsection (a) of this 
    section shall be subject to the condition that, if the Economic 
    Development Alliance reconveys all or any part of the conveyed 
    property during the 25-year period referred to in subsection (c)(2) 
    of such section, the Economic Development Alliance shall pay to the 
    United States, upon reconveyance, an amount equal to the fair 
    market value of the reconveyed property as of the time of the 
    reconveyance, excluding the value of any improvements made to the 
    property by the Economic Development Alliance.
        (2) Determination of fair market value.--The Secretary of the 
    Army shall determine fair market value in accordance with Federal 
    appraisal standards and procedures.
        (3) Treatment of leases.--The Secretary of the Army may treat a 
    lease of the property within such 25-year period as a reconveyance 
    if the Secretary determines that the lease is being used to avoid 
    application of paragraph (1).
        (4) Deposit of proceeds.--The Secretary of the Army shall 
    deposit any proceeds received under this subsection in the special 
    account established pursuant to section 572(b) of title 40, United 
    States Code.
    (c) Instrument of Release.--The Secretary of the Army may execute 
and file in the appropriate office a deed of release, amended deed, or 
other appropriate instrument reflecting the release of conditions and 
retained interests under subsection (a).
    (d) Payment of Administrative Costs.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall require 
    the Economic Development Alliance to cover costs to be incurred by 
    the Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by 
    the Secretary, to carry out the release of conditions and retained 
    interests under subsection (a), including survey costs, costs 
    related to environmental documentation, and other administrative 
    costs related to the release. If amounts paid to the Secretary in 
    advance exceed the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to 
    carry out the release, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount 
    to the Economic Development Alliance.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the release under subsection (a) shall be credited to 
    the fund or account that was used to cover the costs incurred by 
    the Secretary in carrying out the release. Amounts so credited 
    shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
release of conditions and retained interests under subsection (a) as 
the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the 
United States, including provisions that the Secretary determines are 
necessary to preclude any use of the property that would interfere with 
activities at Pine Bluff Arsenal.
SEC. 2832. LAND EXCHANGE AUTHORITY, MARE ISLAND ARMY RESERVE CENTER, 
VALLEJO, CALIFORNIA.
    (a) Exchange Authorized.--Subject to subsection (b), the Secretary 
of the Army may carry out a real property exchange with Touro 
University California (in this section referred to as the 
``University''), under which the Secretary will convey all right, 
title, and interest of the United States in and to a parcel of real 
property, including any improvements thereon, consisting of 
approximately 3.42 acres of the former Mare Island Naval Shipyard on 
Azuar Drive in the City of Vallejo, California, and administered by the 
Secretary as part of the 63rd Regional Support Command, for the purpose 
of permitting the University to use the parcel for educational and 
administrative purposes.
    (b) Conveyance Authority Conditional.--The conveyance authority 
provided by subsection (a) shall take effect only if the real property 
exchange process initiated by the Secretary of the Army in a notice of 
availability (DACW05-8-15-512) issued on January 28, 2015, and 
involving the real property described in subsection (a) is terminated 
unsuccessfully.
    (c) Conveyance Process.--The Secretary shall carry out the real 
property exchange authorized by subsection (a) using the authority 
available to the Secretary under section 18240 of title 10, United 
States Code.
    (d) Facilities to Be Acquired.--In exchange for the conveyance of 
the real property under subsection (a), the Secretary of the Army shall 
acquire, consistent with subsections (c) and (d) of section 18240 of 
title 10, United States Code, a facility, or addition to an existing 
facility, needed to rectify the parking shortage for the Mare Island 
Army Reserve Center.
    (e) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army shall require 
    the University to cover costs (except costs for environmental 
    remediation of the property) to be incurred by the Secretary, or to 
    reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, 
    to carry out the conveyance under subsection (a), including survey 
    costs, costs for environmental documentation related to the 
    conveyance, and any other administrative costs related to the 
    conveyance. If amounts are collected from the University in advance 
    of the Secretary incurring the actual costs, and the amount 
    collected exceeds the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to 
    carry out the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess 
    amount to the University.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the conveyance or, if the period of 
    availability for obligations for that appropriation has expired, to 
    the appropriations or fund that is currently available to the 
    Secretary for the same purpose. Amounts so credited shall be merged 
    with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be available for 
    the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions and 
    limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (f) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be conveyed under subsection (a) and 
acquired under subsection (d) shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
SEC. 2833. LAND EXCHANGE, NAVY OUTLYING LANDING FIELD, NAVAL AIR 
STATION, WHITING FIELD, FLORIDA.
    (a) Land Exchange Authorized.--The Secretary of the Navy may convey 
to Escambia County, Florida (in this section referred to as the 
``County''), all right, title, and interest of the United States in and 
to a parcel of real property, including any improvements thereon, 
containing Navy Outlying Landing Field Site 8 in Escambia County 
associated with Naval Air Station, Whiting Field, Milton, Florida.
    (b) Land To Be Acquired.--In exchange for the property described in 
subsection (a), the County shall convey to the Secretary of the Navy 
land and improvements thereon in Santa Rosa County, Florida, that is 
acceptable to the Secretary and suitable for use as a Navy outlying 
landing field to replace Navy Outlying Landing Field Site 8.
    (c) Payment of Costs of Conveyance.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Navy shall require 
    the County to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, or to 
    reimburse the Secretary for such costs incurred by the Secretary, 
    to carry out the land exchange under this section, including survey 
    costs, costs for environmental documentation, other administrative 
    costs related to the land exchange, and all costs associated with 
    relocation of activities and facilities from Navy Outlying Landing 
    Field Site 8 to the replacement location. If amounts are collected 
    from the County in advance of the Secretary incurring the actual 
    costs, and the amount collected exceeds the costs actually incurred 
    by the Secretary to carry out the land exchange, the Secretary 
    shall refund the excess amount to the County.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received as 
    reimbursement under paragraph (1) shall be credited to the fund or 
    account that was used to cover those costs incurred by the 
    Secretary in carrying out the land exchange. Amounts so credited 
    shall be merged with amounts in such fund or account, and shall be 
    available for the same purposes, and subject to the same conditions 
    and limitations, as amounts in such fund or account.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the property to be exchanged under this section shall be 
determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary of the Navy.
    (e) Conveyance Agreement.--The exchange of real property under this 
section shall be accomplished using a quit claim deed or other legal 
instrument and upon terms and conditions mutually satisfactory to the 
Secretary of the Navy and the County, including such additional terms 
and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the 
interests of the United States.
SEC. 2834. RELEASE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS RETAINED IN CONNECTION WITH 
LAND CONVEYANCE, CAMP VILLERE, LOUISIANA.
    (a) Release of Retained Interests.--With respect to a parcel of 
real property at Camp Villere, Louisiana, consisting of approximately 
48.04 acres and conveyed by quit-claim deed for National Guard purposes 
by the United States to the State of Louisiana pursuant to section 616 
of the Military Construction Authorization Act, 1975 (titles I through 
VI of Public Law 93-552; 88 Stat. 1768), the Secretary of the Army may 
release the terms and conditions imposed by the United States under 
subsection (b) of such section and the reversionary interest retained 
by the United States under subsection (c) of such section. The release 
of such terms and conditions and retained interests with respect to any 
portion of that parcel shall not be construed to alter the rights or 
interests retained by the United States with respect to the remainder 
of the real property conveyed to the State under such section.
    (b) Condition of Release.--The release authorized by subsection (a) 
of terms and conditions and retained interests shall be subject to the 
condition that the State of Louisiana--
        (1) transfer the parcel of real property described in such 
    subsection from the Louisiana Military Department to the Louisiana 
    Agricultural Finance Authority for the purpose of permitting the 
    Louisiana Agricultural Finance Authority to use the parcel for any 
    purposes allowed by State law; and
        (2) make available to the Louisiana Military Department real 
    property to replace the transferred parcel that is suitable for use 
    for National Guard training and operational support for emergency 
    management and homeland defense activities.
    (c) Instrument of Release and Description of Property.--The 
Secretary of the Army may execute and file in the appropriate office a 
deed of release, amended deed, or other appropriate instrument 
reflecting the release of terms and conditions and retained interests 
under subsection (a). The exact acreage and legal description of the 
property described in such subsection shall be determined by a survey 
satisfactory to the Secretary of the Army.
    (d) Payment of Administrative Costs.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army may require 
    the State of Louisiana to cover costs to be incurred by the 
    Secretary, or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the 
    Secretary, to carry out the release of retained interests under 
    subsection (a), including survey costs, costs related to 
    environmental documentation, and other administrative costs related 
    to the conveyance. If amounts paid to the Secretary in advance 
    exceed the costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out 
    the conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the 
    State.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the release of retained interests under subsection (a) 
    shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover the 
    costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the release of 
    retained interests. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
    amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same 
    purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as 
    amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
release of retained interests under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.
SEC. 2835. RELEASE OF PROPERTY INTERESTS RETAINED IN CONNECTION WITH 
LAND CONVEYANCE, FORT BLISS MILITARY RESERVATION, TEXAS.
    (a) Release of Retained Interests.--With respect to a parcel of 
real property in El Paso, Texas, consisting of approximately 20 acres 
and conveyed by deed for National Guard and military purposes by the 
United States to the State of Texas pursuant to section 708 of the 
Military Construction Authorization Act, 1972 (Public Law 92-145; 85 
Stat. 412), the Secretary of the Army may release the rights reserved 
by the United States under subsections (d) and (e)(2) of such section 
and the reversionary interest retained by the United States under 
subsection (e)(1) of such section. The release of such rights and 
retained interests with respect to any portion of that parcel shall not 
be construed to alter the rights or interests retained by the United 
States with respect to the remainder of the real property conveyed to 
the State under such section.
    (b) Condition of Release.--The release authorized by subsection (a) 
of rights and retained interests shall be subject to the condition 
that--
        (1) the State of Texas sell the parcel of real property covered 
    by the release for fair market value; and
        (2) all proceeds from the sale shall be used to fund 
    improvements or repairs for National Guard and military purposes on 
    the remainder of the property conveyed under section 708 of the 
    Military Construction Authorization Act, 1972 (Public Law 92-145; 
    85 Stat. 412) and retained by the State.
    (c) Instrument of Release and Description of Property.--The 
Secretary of the Army may execute and file in the appropriate office a 
deed of release, amended deed, or other appropriate instrument 
reflecting the release of rights and retained interests under 
subsection (a). The exact acreage and legal description of the property 
for which rights and retained interests are released under subsection 
(a) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary of 
the Army.
    (d) Payment of Administrative Costs.--
        (1) Payment required.--The Secretary of the Army may require 
    the State of Texas to cover costs to be incurred by the Secretary, 
    or to reimburse the Secretary for costs incurred by the Secretary, 
    to carry out the release of retained interests under subsection 
    (a), including survey costs, costs related to environmental 
    documentation, and other administrative costs related to the 
    conveyance. If amounts paid to the Secretary in advance exceed the 
    costs actually incurred by the Secretary to carry out the 
    conveyance, the Secretary shall refund the excess amount to the 
    State.
        (2) Treatment of amounts received.--Amounts received under 
    paragraph (1) as reimbursement for costs incurred by the Secretary 
    to carry out the release of retained interests under subsection (a) 
    shall be credited to the fund or account that was used to cover the 
    costs incurred by the Secretary in carrying out the release of 
    retained interests. Amounts so credited shall be merged with 
    amounts in such fund or account and shall be available for the same 
    purposes, and subject to the same conditions and limitations, as 
    amounts in such fund or account.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary of the Army may 
require such additional terms and conditions in connection with the 
release of retained interests under subsection (a) as the Secretary 
considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States, to 
include necessary munitions response actions by the State of Texas in 
accordance with subsection (e)(3) of section 708 of the Military 
Construction Authorization Act, 1972 (Public Law 92-145; 85 Stat. 412).

                 Subtitle E--Military Land Withdrawals

SEC. 2841. ADDITIONAL WITHDRAWAL AND RESERVATION OF PUBLIC LAND, NAVAL 
AIR WEAPONS STATION CHINA LAKE, CALIFORNIA.
    Section 2971(b) of the Military Construction Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (division B of Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1044) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking ``The public land'' and inserting the 
    following:
        ``(1) Initial withdrawal.--The public land''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(2) Additional withdrawal.--
            ``(A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        the public land (including interests in land) referred to in 
        subsection (a) also includes the approximately 21,060 acres of 
        public land in San Bernardino County, California, identified as 
        `Proposed Navy Land' on the map entitled `Proposed Navy 
        Withdrawal', dated March 10, 2015, and filed in accordance with 
        section 2912.
            ``(B) Excluded lands.--The withdrawal area referred to in 
        subparagraph (A) specifically excludes section 36, township 29 
        south, range 43 east, San Bernardino meridian.
            ``(C) Existing rights and access.--The withdrawal and 
        reservation of public land pursuant to subparagraph (A) is 
        subject to valid existing rights. The Secretary of the Navy 
        shall ensure that the owners of the excluded private land 
        identified in subparagraph (B) continue to have reasonable 
        access to such land.''.

                       Subtitle F--Other Matters

SEC. 2851. MODIFICATION OF DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE GUIDANCE ON USE OF 
AIRFIELD PAVEMENT MARKINGS.
    The Secretary of Defense shall require such modifications of 
Unified Facilities Guide Specifications for pavement markings (UFGS 32 
17 23.00 20 Pavement Markings, UFGS 32 17 24.00 10 Pavement Markings), 
Air Force Engineering Technical Letter ETL 97-18 (Guide Specification 
for Airfield and Roadway Marking), and any other Department of Defense 
guidance on airfield pavement markings as may be necessary to permit 
the use of Type III category of retro-reflective beads to reflectorize 
airfield markings. The Secretary shall develop appropriate policy to 
ensure that the determination of the category of retro-reflective beads 
used on an airfield is determined on an installation-by-installation 
basis, taking into consideration local conditions and the life-cycle 
maintenance costs of the pavement markings.
SEC. 2852. EXTENSION OF AUTHORITY FOR ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMEMORATIVE 
WORK IN HONOR OF BRIGADIER GENERAL FRANCIS MARION.
    Notwithstanding section 8903(e) of title 40, United States Code, 
the authority provided by section 331 of the Consolidated Natural 
Resources Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-229; 122 Stat. 781; 40 U.S.C. 
8903 note) shall continue to apply through May 8, 2018.

 DIVISION C--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY AUTHORIZATIONS AND 
                          OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS
      TITLE XXXI--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

          Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

Sec. 3101. National Nuclear Security Administration.
Sec. 3102. Defense environmental cleanup.
Sec. 3103. Other defense activities.
Sec. 3104. Nuclear energy.

    Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

Sec. 3111. Improvement to accountability of Department of Energy 
          employees and projects.
Sec. 3112. Stockpile responsiveness program.
Sec. 3113. Notification of cost overruns and Selected Acquisition 
          Reports for major alteration projects.
Sec. 3114. Root cause analyses for certain cost overruns.
Sec. 3115. Funding of laboratory-directed research and development 
          programs.
Sec. 3116. Hanford Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant contract 
          oversight.
Sec. 3117. Use of best practices for capital asset projects and nuclear 
          weapon life extension programs.
Sec. 3118. Research and development of advanced naval nuclear fuel 
          system based on low-enriched uranium.
Sec. 3119. Disposition of weapons-usable plutonium.
Sec. 3120. Establishment of microlab pilot program.
Sec. 3121. Prohibition on availability of funds for provision of defense 
          nuclear nonproliferation assistance to Russian Federation.
Sec. 3122. Prohibition on availability of funds for new fixed site 
          radiological portal monitors in foreign countries.
Sec. 3123. Limitation on availability of funds for certain arms control 
          and nonproliferation technologies.
Sec. 3124. Limitation on availability of funds for nuclear weapons 
          dismantlement.

                      Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

Sec. 3131. Long-term plan for meeting national security requirements for 
          unencumbered uranium.
Sec. 3132. Defense nuclear nonproliferation management plan and reports.
Sec. 3133. Plan for deactivation and decommissioning of nonoperational 
          defense nuclear facilities.
Sec. 3134. Assessment of emergency preparedness of defense nuclear 
          facilities.
Sec. 3135. Modifications to cost-benefit analyses for competition of 
          management and operating contracts.
Sec. 3136. Interagency review of applications for the transfer of United 
          States civil nuclear technology.
Sec. 3137. Governance and management of nuclear security enterprise.
Sec. 3138. Annual report on number of full-time equivalent employees and 
          contractor employees.
Sec. 3139. Development of strategy on risks to nonproliferation caused 
          by additive manufacturing.
Sec. 3140. Plutonium pit production capacity.
Sec. 3141. Assessments on nuclear proliferation risks and nuclear 
          nonproliferation opportunities.
Sec. 3142. Analysis of alternatives for Mobile Guardian Transporter 
          program.

         Subtitle A--National Security Programs Authorizations

SEC. 3101. NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION.
    (a) Authorization of Appropriations.--Funds are hereby authorized 
to be appropriated to the Department of Energy for fiscal year 2016 for 
the activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration in 
carrying out programs as specified in the funding table in section 
4701.
    (b) Authorization of New Plant Projects.--From funds referred to in 
subsection (a) that are available for carrying out plant projects, the 
Secretary of Energy may carry out the following new plant project for 
the National Nuclear Security Administration:
        Project 16-D-621, Substation Replacement at Technical Area 3, 
    Los Alamos National Laboratory, Los Alamos, New Mexico, 
    $25,000,000.
SEC. 3102. DEFENSE ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2016 for defense environmental cleanup 
activities in carrying out programs as specified in the funding table 
in section 4701.
SEC. 3103. OTHER DEFENSE ACTIVITIES.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2016 for other defense activities in carrying 
out programs as specified in the funding table in section 4701.
SEC. 3104. NUCLEAR ENERGY.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Energy for fiscal year 2016 for nuclear energy as specified in the 
funding table in section 4701.

   Subtitle B--Program Authorizations, Restrictions, and Limitations

SEC. 3111. IMPROVEMENT TO ACCOUNTABILITY OF DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY 
EMPLOYEES AND PROJECTS.
    (a) Notifications.--
        (1) In general.--Subtitle C of the National Nuclear Security 
    Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2441 et seq.) is amended by adding at 
    the end the following new section:
``SEC. 3245. NOTIFICATION OF EMPLOYEE PRACTICES AFFECTING NATIONAL 
SECURITY.
    ``(a) Annual Notification.--At or about the time that the 
President's budget is submitted to Congress under section 1105(a) of 
title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Energy and the 
Administrator shall jointly notify the appropriate congressional 
committees of--
        ``(1) the number of covered employees whose security clearance 
    was revoked during the year prior to the year in which the 
    notification is made; and
        ``(2) for each employee counted under paragraph (1), the length 
    of time such employee has been employed at the Department or the 
    Administration, as the case may be, since such revocation.
    ``(b) Notification to Congressional Committees.--Whenever the 
Secretary or the Administrator terminates the employment of a covered 
employee or removes and reassigns a covered employee for cause, the 
Secretary or the Administrator, as the case may be, shall notify the 
appropriate congressional committees of such termination or 
reassignment by not later than 30 days after the date of such 
termination or reassignment.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate.
        ``(2) The term `covered employee' means--
            ``(A) an employee of the Administration; or
            ``(B) an employee of an element of the Department of Energy 
        (other than the Administration) involved in nuclear 
        security.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3244 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 3245. Notification of employee practices affecting national 
          security.''.

        (3) One-time certification.--Not later than 30 days after the 
    date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy and the 
    Administrator for Nuclear Security shall jointly submit to the 
    congressional defense committees, the Committee on Energy and 
    Commerce of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
    Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate written certification 
    that the Secretary and the Administrator possess the authorities 
    needed to terminate the employment of an employee for cause 
    relating to improper program management, as described in section 
    3246(a) of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act (as 
    added by subsection (b)(1)).
    (b) Limitation on Bonuses.--
        (1) In general.--Such subtitle, as amended by subsection 
    (a)(1), is further amended by adding at the end the following:
``SEC. 3246. LIMITATION ON BONUSES FOR EMPLOYEES WHO ENGAGE IN IMPROPER 
PROGRAM MANAGEMENT.
    ``(a) Limitation.--
        ``(1) In general.--The Secretary of Energy or the Administrator 
    may not pay to a covered employee a bonus during the one-year 
    period beginning on the date on which the Secretary or the 
    Administrator, as the case may be, determines that the covered 
    employee engaged in improper program management that resulted in a 
    notification under section 4713 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
    (50 U.S.C. 2753) or significantly and detrimentally affected the 
    cost, scope, or schedule associated with the approval of critical 
    decision 3 in the acquisition process for a project (as defined in 
    Department of Energy Order 413.3B (relating to program management 
    and project management for the acquisition of capital assets)).
        ``(2) Implementation guidance.--Not later than one year after 
    the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall 
    issue guidance for the implementation of paragraph (1).
    ``(b) Guidance Prohibiting Bonuses for Additional Employees.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, 
the Secretary and the Administrator shall each issue guidance 
prohibiting the payment of a bonus to a covered employee during the 
one-year period beginning on the date on which the Secretary or the 
Administrator, as the case may be, determines that the covered employee 
engaged in improper program management--
        ``(1) that jeopardized the health, safety, or security of 
    employees or facilities of the Administration or another element of 
    the Department of Energy involved in nuclear security; or
        ``(2) in carrying out defense nuclear nonproliferation 
    activities.
    ``(c) Waiver.--The Secretary or the Administrator, as the case may 
be, may waive the limitation on the payment of a bonus under subsection 
(a) or (b) on a case-by-case basis if--
        ``(1) the Secretary or the Administrator, as the case may be, 
    notifies the appropriate congressional committees of such waiver; 
    and
        ``(2) a period of 60 days elapses following such notification.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate.
        ``(2) The term `bonus' means a bonus or award paid under title 
    5, United States Code, including under chapters 45 or 53 of such 
    title, or any other provision of law.
        ``(3) The term `covered employee' has the meaning given that 
    term in section 3245.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act, as 
    amended by subsection (a)(2), is further amended by inserting after 
    the item relating to section 3245 the following new item:

``Sec. 3246. Limitation on bonuses for employees who engage in improper 
          program management.''.

    (c) Treatment of Contactor Employees.--
        (1) In general.--Such subtitle, as amended by subsections 
    (a)(1) and (b)(1), is further amended by adding at the end the 
    following:
``SEC. 3247. TREATMENT OF CONTRACTORS WHO ENGAGE IN IMPROPER PROGRAM 
MANAGEMENT.
    ``(a) In General.--Except as provided by subsection (b), if the 
Secretary of Energy or the Administrator determines that a covered 
contractor engaged in improper program management that resulted in a 
notification under section 4713 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 
U.S.C. 2753) or significantly and detrimentally affected the cost, 
scope, or schedule associated with the approval of critical decision 3 
in the acquisition process for a project (as defined in Department of 
Energy Order 413.3B (relating to program management and project 
management for the acquisition of capital assets)), the Secretary or 
the Administrator, as the case may be, shall submit to the appropriate 
congressional committees--
        ``(1) an explanation as to whether termination of the contract 
    is an appropriate remedy;
        ``(2) a description of the terms of the contract regarding 
    award fees and performance; and
        ``(3) a description of how the Secretary or the Administrator, 
    as the case may be, plans to exercise options under the contract.
    ``(b) Exception.--If the Secretary or the Administrator, as the 
case may be, is not able to submit the information described in 
paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) by reason of a contract 
enforcement action, the Secretary or the Administrator, as the case may 
be, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a 
notification of such contract enforcement action and the date on which 
the Secretary or the Administrator, as the case may be, plans to submit 
the information described in such paragraphs.
    ``(c) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate.
        ``(2) The term `covered contractor' means--
            ``(A) a contractor of the Administration; or
            ``(B) a contractor of an element of the Department of 
        Energy (other than the Administration) involved in nuclear 
        security.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act, as 
    amended by subsections (a)(2) and (b)(2), is further amended by 
    inserting after the item relating to section 3246 the following new 
    item:

``Sec. 3247. Treatment of contractors who engage in improper program 
          management.''.
SEC. 3112. STOCKPILE RESPONSIVENESS PROGRAM.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) a modern and responsive nuclear weapons infrastructure is 
    only one component of a nuclear posture that is agile, flexible, 
    and responsive to change; and
        (2) to ensure the nuclear deterrent of the United States 
    remains safe, secure, reliable, credible, and responsive, the 
    United States must continually exercise all capabilities required 
    to conceptualize, study, design, develop, engineer, certify, 
    produce, and deploy nuclear weapons.
    (b) Establishment of Program.--
        (1) In general.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy 
    Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.) is amended by adding at the 
    end the following new section:
``SEC. 4220. STOCKPILE RESPONSIVENESS PROGRAM.
    ``(a) Statement of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
to identify, sustain, enhance, integrate, and continually exercise all 
capabilities required to conceptualize, study, design, develop, 
engineer, certify, produce, and deploy nuclear weapons to ensure the 
nuclear deterrent of the United States remains safe, secure, reliable, 
credible, and responsive.
    ``(b) Program Required.--The Secretary of Energy, acting through 
the Administrator and in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, 
shall carry out a stockpile responsiveness program, along with the 
stockpile stewardship program under section 4201 and the stockpile 
management program under section 4204, to identify, sustain, enhance, 
integrate, and continually exercise all capabilities required to 
conceptualize, study, design, develop, engineer, certify, produce, and 
deploy nuclear weapons.
    ``(c) Objectives.--The program under subsection (b) shall have the 
following objectives:
        ``(1) Identify, sustain, enhance, integrate, and continually 
    exercise all of the capabilities, infrastructure, tools, and 
    technologies across the science, engineering, design, 
    certification, and manufacturing cycle required to carry out all 
    phases of the joint nuclear weapons life cycle process, with 
    respect to both the nuclear security enterprise and relevant 
    elements of the Department of Defense.
        ``(2) Identify, enhance, and transfer knowledge, skills, and 
    direct experience with respect to all phases of the joint nuclear 
    weapons life cycle process from one generation of nuclear weapon 
    designers and engineers to the following generation.
        ``(3) Periodically demonstrate stockpile responsiveness 
    throughout the range of capabilities required, including 
    prototypes, flight testing, and development of plans for 
    certification without the need for nuclear explosive testing.
        ``(4) Shorten design, certification, and manufacturing cycles 
    and timelines to minimize the amount of time and costs leading to 
    an engineering prototype and production.
        ``(5) Continually exercise processes for the integration and 
    coordination of all relevant elements and processes of the 
    Administration and the Department of Defense required to ensure 
    stockpile responsiveness.
    ``(d) Joint Nuclear Weapons Life Cycle Process Defined.--In this 
section, the term `joint nuclear weapons life cycle process' means the 
process developed and maintained by the Secretary of Defense and the 
Secretary of Energy for the development, production, maintenance, and 
retirement of nuclear weapons.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4219 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 4220. Stockpile responsiveness program.''.

    (c) Inclusion in Stockpile Stewardship, Management, and 
Infrastructure Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Section 4203 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2523) is 
    amended--
            (A) in the section heading, by striking ``infrastructure'' 
        and inserting ``responsiveness'';
            (B) in subsection (a), by inserting ``stockpile 
        responsiveness,'' after ``stockpile management,'';
            (C) in subsection (c)--
                (i) by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as 
            paragraphs (6) and (7), respectively; and
                (ii) by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new 
            paragraph (5):
        ``(5) A summary of the status, plans, and budgets for carrying 
    out the stockpile responsiveness program under section 4220.'';
            (D) in subsection (d)(1)--
                (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
            striking ``stewardship and management'' and inserting 
            ``stewardship, stockpile management, and stockpile 
            responsiveness'';
                (ii) in subparagraph (K), by striking ``; and'' and 
            inserting a semicolon;
                (iii) in subparagraph (L), by striking the period and 
            inserting a semicolon; and
                (iv) by adding at the end the following new 
            subparagraphs:
            ``(M) the status, plans, activities, budgets, and schedules 
        for carrying out the stockpile responsiveness program under 
        section 4220; and
            ``(N) for each of the five fiscal years following the 
        fiscal year in which the report is submitted, an identification 
        of the funds needed to carry out the program required under 
        section 4220.''; and
            (E) in subsection (e)(1)(A)--
                (i) in clause (i), by striking ``; and'' and inserting 
            a semicolon;
                (ii) in clause (ii), by striking the period and 
            inserting ``; and''; and
                (iii) by adding at the end the following new clause:
                ``(iii) whether the plan supports the stockpile 
            responsiveness program under section 4220 in a manner that 
            meets the objectives of such program and an identification 
            of any improvements that may be made to the plan to better 
            carry out such program.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
    amended by striking the item relating to section 4203 and inserting 
    the following new item:

``Sec. 4203. Nuclear weapons stockpile stewardship, management, and 
          responsiveness plan.''.

    (d) Report by STRATCOM.--Section 4205(e)(4) of such Act (50 U.S.C. 
2525(e)(4)) is amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
    semicolon;
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period and inserting 
    ``; and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(C) the views of the Commander on the stockpile 
        responsiveness program under section 4220, the activities 
        conducted under such program, and any suggestions to improve 
        such program.''.
SEC. 3113. NOTIFICATION OF COST OVERRUNS AND SELECTED ACQUISITION 
REPORTS FOR MAJOR ALTERATION PROJECTS.
    (a) Notification of Cost Overruns.--
        (1) In general.--Section 4713(a) of the Atomic Energy Defense 
    Act (50 U.S.C. 2753(a)) is amended--
            (A) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (3) and (4), respectively; and
            (B) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new 
        paragraph (2):
        ``(2) Major alteration projects.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Administrator shall establish a cost 
        and schedule baseline for each major alteration project.
            ``(B) Per unit cost.--The cost baseline developed under 
        subparagraph (A) shall include, with respect to each major 
        alteration project, an estimated cost for each warhead in the 
        project.
            ``(C) Notification to congressional defense committees.--
        Not later than 30 days after establishing a cost and schedule 
        baseline under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall submit 
        the cost and schedule baseline to the congressional defense 
        committees.
            ``(D) Major alteration project defined.--In this paragraph, 
        the term `major alteration project' means a nuclear weapon 
        system alteration project of the Administration the cost of 
        which exceeds $750,000,000.''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--Section 4713 of such Act is further 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (b)--
                (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``or (3)'' and 
            inserting ``(3), or (4)''; and
                (ii) in paragraph (2)--

                    (I) by inserting ``or a major alteration project 
                referred to in subsection (a)(2)'' after ``subsection 
                (a)(1)''; and
                    (II) by inserting ``or (a)(2)(B), as applicable,''; 
                and

            (B) in subsection (c)(2)(A), by inserting ``or a major 
        alteration project referred to in subsection (a)(2)'' after 
        ``subsection (a)(1)''.
    (b) Inclusion of Major Alteration Projects in Selected Acquisition 
Reports and Independent Cost Estimates.--
        (1) In general.--Section 4217 of such Act (50 U.S.C. 2537) is 
    amended--
            (A) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting ``or a major 
        alteration project (as defined in section 4713(a)(2))'' after 
        ``life extension''; and
            (B) in subsection (b)(1)(A), by adding at the end the 
        following new clause:
                ``(iv) Each nuclear weapons system undergoing a major 
            alteration project (as defined in section 4713(a)(2)).''.
        (2) Conforming amendments.--
            (A) The section heading for section 4217 of such Act is 
        amended by striking ``life extension programs and new nuclear 
        facilities'' and inserting ``certain programs and facilities''.
            (B) The table of contents for such Act is amended by 
        striking the item relating to section 4217 and inserting the 
        following new item:

``Sec. 4217. Selected Acquisition Reports and independent cost estimates 
          and reviews of certain programs and facilities.''.
SEC. 3114. ROOT CAUSE ANALYSES FOR CERTAIN COST OVERRUNS.
    Section 4713(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 
2753(c)), as amended by section 3113, is further amended--
        (1) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``and Root Cause 
    Analyses'' after ``Projects'';
        (2) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and'';
        (3) in paragraph (2)(C), by striking the period at the end and 
    inserting ``; and''; and
        (4) by adding at the end the following paragraph:
        ``(3) submit to the congressional defense committees an 
    assessment of the root cause or causes of the growth in the total 
    cost of the project, including the contribution of any shortcomings 
    in cost, schedule, or performance of the program, including the 
    role, if any, of--
            ``(A) unrealistic performance expectations;
            ``(B) unrealistic baseline estimates for cost or schedule;
            ``(C) immature technologies or excessive manufacturing or 
        integration risk;
            ``(D) unanticipated design, engineering, manufacturing, or 
        technology integration issues arising during program 
        performance;
            ``(E) changes in procurement quantities;
            ``(F) inadequate program funding or funding instability;
            ``(G) poor performance by personnel of the Federal 
        Government or contractor personnel responsible for program 
        management; or
            ``(H) any other matters.''.
SEC. 3115. FUNDING OF LABORATORY-DIRECTED RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
PROGRAMS.
    (a) In General.--Section 4811(c) of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2791(c)) is amended--
        (1) by striking ``to such laboratories'' and inserting ``to a 
    national security laboratory'';
        (2) by striking ``not to exceed 6 percent'' and inserting ``of 
    not less than 5 percent and not more than 7 percent''; and
        (3) by striking ``by such laboratories'' and inserting ``by the 
    laboratory''.
    (b) Briefing Required.--Not later than February 28, 2016, the 
Administrator for Nuclear Security shall provide a briefing to the 
congressional defense committees on--
        (1) all recent or ongoing reviews of the laboratory-directed 
    research and development program, including such reviews initiated 
    by the Secretary of Energy;
        (2) costs and accounting practices associated with laboratory-
    directed research and development; and
        (3) how laboratory-directed research and development projects 
    support the mission of the National Nuclear Security 
    Administration.
SEC. 3116. HANFORD WASTE TREATMENT AND IMMOBILIZATION PLANT CONTRACT 
OVERSIGHT.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle C of title XLIV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2621 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
``SEC. 4446. HANFORD WASTE TREATMENT AND IMMOBILIZATION PLANT CONTRACT 
OVERSIGHT.
    ``(a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
2016, the Secretary of Energy shall arrange to have an owner's agent 
advise the Secretary in carrying out the oversight responsibilities of 
the Secretary with respect to the contract described in subsection (b).
    ``(b) Contract Described.--The contract described in this 
subsection is the contract between the Office of River Protection of 
the Department of Energy and Bechtel National, Inc., or its successor 
relating to the Hanford Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant 
(contract number DE-AC27-01RV14136).
    ``(c) Duties.--The duties of the owner's agent under subsection (a) 
shall include advising the Secretary with respect to the following:
        ``(1) Performing design, construction, nuclear safety, and 
    operability oversight of each facility covered by the contract 
    described in subsection (b).
        ``(2) Beginning not later than one year after the date of the 
    enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 
    2016, ensuring that the preliminary documented safety analyses for 
    all facilities covered by the contract meet the requirements of all 
    applicable Department of Energy regulations and guidance, including 
    section 830.206 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, and the 
    Department of Energy Standard on the Integration of Safety into the 
    Design Process (DOE-STD-1189-2008).
        ``(3) Ensuring that, until the Secretary approves the 
    documented safety analysis for each facility covered by the 
    contract, the contractor ensures that each preliminary documented 
    safety analysis is current.
        ``(4) Ensuring that the contractor acts to promptly resolve any 
    unreviewed safety questions.
    ``(d) Report on Activities of Owner's Agent.--
        ``(1) In general.--Not later than one year after the date of 
    the enactment of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal 
    Year 2016, and every 180 days thereafter, the owner's agent 
    specified in subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary a report 
    on the advice provided by the owner's agent to the Secretary under 
    that subsection with respect to oversight of the contract described 
    in subsection (b).
        ``(2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include the following:
            ``(A) Information on the status of, and the plan for 
        resolving, each unreviewed safety question at each facility 
        covered by the contract described in subsection (b).
            ``(B) An identification of each instance of disagreement 
        between the owner's agent and the contractor with respect to 
        whether an unreviewed safety question exists and the plan for 
        resolution of the disagreement.
            ``(C) An identification of each aspect of each preliminary 
        documented safety analysis that is not current, the plan for 
        making that aspect current, and the status of the corrective 
        efforts.
            ``(D) Information on the status of, and the plan for 
        resolving, each unresolved technical issue at each facility 
        covered by the contract, and the status of corrective efforts.
        ``(3) Submission to congress.--The Secretary shall transmit to 
    the congressional defense committees the report required by 
    paragraph (1) and any views of the Secretary with respect to the 
    report.
    ``(e) Report on Selection of the Owner's Agent.--Not later than 30 
days after the selection of the owner's agent under subsection (a), the 
Secretary shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report 
on the process used to select the owner's agent to ensure that the 
owner's agent does not have a conflict of interest.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `contractor' means Bechtel National, Inc.
        ``(2) The term `current', with respect to a documented safety 
    analysis, means that the documented safety analysis includes any 
    design changes approved by the contractor and any safety evaluation 
    reports issued by the Secretary with respect to the facility 
    covered by the analysis before the date that is 60 days before the 
    date of the analysis.
        ``(3) The terms `documented safety analysis', `safety 
    evaluation report', and `unreviewed safety question' have the 
    meanings given those terms in section 830.3 of title 10, Code of 
    Federal Regulations (or any corresponding similar ruling or 
    regulation).
        ``(4) The term `owner's agent' means a private third-party 
    entity with nuclear safety management expertise.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4445 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4446. Hanford Waste Treatment and Immobilization Plant contract 
          oversight.''.
SEC. 3117. USE OF BEST PRACTICES FOR CAPITAL ASSET PROJECTS AND NUCLEAR 
WEAPON LIFE EXTENSION PROGRAMS.
    (a) Analyses of Alternatives.--Not later than 30 days after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy, in 
coordination with the Administrator for Nuclear Security, shall ensure 
that analyses of alternatives are conducted (including through 
contractors, as appropriate) in accordance with best practices for 
capital asset projects and life extension programs of the National 
Nuclear Security Administration and capital asset projects relating to 
defense environmental management.
    (b) Cost Estimates.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary, in coordination with the 
Administrator, shall develop cost estimates in accordance with cost 
estimating best practices for capital asset projects and life extension 
programs of the National Nuclear Security Administration and capital 
asset projects relating to defense environmental management.
    (c) Revisions to Departmental Project Management Order and Nuclear 
Weapon Life Extension Requirements.--As soon as practicable after the 
date of the enactment of this Act, but not later than two years after 
such date of enactment, the Secretary shall revise--
        (1) the capital asset project management order of the 
    Department of Energy to require the use of best practices for 
    preparing cost estimates and for conducting analyses of 
    alternatives for National Nuclear Security Administration and 
    defense environmental management capital asset projects; and
        (2) the nuclear weapon life extension program procedures of the 
    Department to require the use of use of best practices for 
    preparing cost estimates and conducting analyses of alternatives 
    for National Nuclear Security Administration life extension 
    programs.
SEC. 3118. RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT OF ADVANCED NAVAL NUCLEAR FUEL 
SYSTEM BASED ON LOW-ENRICHED URANIUM.
    (a) Availability of Funds.--Of the funds authorized to be 
appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 
2016 for defense nuclear nonproliferation for material management and 
minimization, as specified in the funding table in section 4701, not 
more than $5,000,000 shall be made available to the Deputy 
Administrator for Naval Reactors for initial planning and early 
research and development of an advanced naval nuclear fuel system based 
on low-enriched uranium.
    (b) Conceptual Program Plan.--Not later than 90 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Deputy Administrator shall submit to 
the congressional defense committees a conceptual plan for a program 
for research and development of an advanced naval nuclear fuel system 
based on low-enriched uranium to meet military requirements. Such plan 
shall include the following:
        (1) Timelines.
        (2) Costs (including an analysis of the cost of such research 
    and development as compared to the cost of maintaining current 
    naval nuclear reactor technology).
        (3) Milestones, including an identification of decision points 
    in which the Deputy Administrator shall determine whether further 
    research and development of a low-enriched uranium naval nuclear 
    fuel system is warranted.
        (4) Identification of any benefits or risks for nuclear 
    nonproliferation of such research and development and eventual 
    deployment.
        (5) Identification of any military benefits or risks of such 
    research and development and eventual deployment.
        (6) A discussion of potential security cost savings from using 
    low-enriched uranium in future naval nuclear fuels, including for 
    transporting and using low-enriched uranium fuel, and how such cost 
    savings relate to the cost of fuel fabrication.
        (7) The distinguishment between requirements for aircraft 
    carriers from submarines.
        (8) Any other matters the Deputy Administrator determines 
    appropriate.
    (c) Determination of Continued Research and Development.--
        (1) Determination.--Not later than 60 days after the date on 
    which the Deputy Administrator submits the conceptual plan to the 
    congressional defense committees under subsection (b), the 
    Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of the Navy shall jointly 
    submit to the congressional defense committees the determination of 
    the Secretaries as to whether the United States should continue to 
    pursue research and development of an advanced naval nuclear fuel 
    system based on low-enriched uranium.
        (2) Budget request.--If the Secretaries determine under 
    paragraph (1) that research and development of an advanced naval 
    nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium should continue, 
    the Secretaries shall ensure that the budget of the President for 
    fiscal year 2018 (and for fiscal year 2017, if feasible) submitted 
    to Congress under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, 
    includes in the budget line item for the ``Defense Nuclear 
    Nonproliferation'' account for material management and minimization 
    amounts necessary to carry out the conceptual plan under subsection 
    (b).
    (d) Memorandum of Understanding.--If the Secretaries determine 
under subsection (c)(1) that research and development of an advanced 
naval nuclear fuel system based on low-enriched uranium should 
continue, not later than 60 days after such determination, the Deputy 
Administrator shall enter into a memorandum of understanding with the 
Deputy Administrator for Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation regarding 
such research and development, including with respect to how funding 
for such research and development will be requested for the ``Defense 
Nuclear Nonproliferation'' account for material management and 
minimization and provided to the ``Naval Reactors'' account to carry 
out the program.
SEC. 3119. DISPOSITION OF WEAPONS-USABLE PLUTONIUM.
    (a) Mixed-oxide Fuel Fabrication Facility.--
        (1) In general.--Using funds described in paragraph (3), the 
    Secretary of Energy shall carry out construction and project 
    support activities relating to the MOX facility.
        (2) Exception.--Notwithstanding paragraph (1), not more than 
    $5,000,000 of the funds described in paragraph (3) may be obligated 
    or expended to conduct an analysis of alternative options for 
    carrying out the plutonium disposition program.
        (3) Funds described.--The funds described in this paragraph are 
    the following:
            (A) Funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or 
        otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the National 
        Nuclear Security Administration for the MOX facility for 
        construction and project support activities.
            (B) Funds authorized to be appropriated for a fiscal year 
        prior to fiscal year 2016 for the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration for the MOX facility for construction and 
        project support activities that are unobligated as of the date 
        of the enactment of this Act.
    (b) Updated Performance Baseline.--The Secretary shall include in 
the budget justification materials submitted to Congress in support of 
the Department of Energy budget (as submitted with the budget of the 
President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code) for 
fiscal year 2017 an updated performance baseline for construction and 
project support activities relating to the MOX facility conducted in 
accordance with Department of Energy Order 413.3B (relating to program 
and project management for the acquisition of capital assets).
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) MOX facility.--The term ``MOX facility'' means the mixed-
    oxide fuel fabrication facility at the Savannah River Site, Aiken, 
    South Carolina.
        (2) Project support activities.--The term ``project support 
    activities'' means activities that support the design, long-lead 
    equipment procurement, and site preparation of the MOX facility.
SEC. 3120. ESTABLISHMENT OF MICROLAB PILOT PROGRAM.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy, in consultation with the 
directors of the national security laboratories, may establish a 
microlab pilot program under which the Secretary establishes a microlab 
for the purposes of--
        (1) enhancing collaboration with regional research groups, such 
    as institutions of higher education and industry groups;
        (2) accelerating technology transfer from national security 
    laboratories to the marketplace; and
        (3) promoting regional workforce development through science, 
    technology, engineering, and mathematics instruction and training.
    (b) Criteria.--
        (1) In general.--In determining the placement of a microlab 
    under subsection (a), the Secretary shall consider--
            (A) the interest of a national security laboratory in 
        establishing a microlab;
            (B) the existence of an available facility that has the 
        capability to house a microlab;
            (C) whether employees of a national security laboratory and 
        persons from academia, industry, and government are available 
        to be assigned to the microlab; and
            (D) cost-sharing or in-kind contributions from State and 
        local governments and private industry.
        (2) Cost-sharing.--The Secretary shall, to the extent feasible, 
    require cost-sharing or in-kind contributions described in 
    paragraph (1)(D) to cover the full cost of the microlab under 
    subsection (a).
    (c) Timing.--If the Secretary, in consultation with the directors 
of the national security laboratories, elects to establish a microlab 
pilot program under this section, the Secretary, in collaboration with 
such directors, shall--
        (1) not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, begin the process of determining the placement of the 
    microlab under subsection (a); and
        (2) not later than one year after such date of enactment, 
    implement the microlab pilot program under this section.
    (d) Reports Required.--If the Secretary, in consultation with the 
directors of the national security laboratories, elects to establish a 
microlab pilot program under this section, the Secretary shall submit 
to the appropriate congressional committees--
        (1) not later than 120 days after the date of the 
    implementation of the program, a report that provides an update on 
    the implementation of the program; and
        (2) not later than one year after the date of the 
    implementation of the program, a report on the program, including 
    findings and recommendations of the Secretary with respect to the 
    program.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on 
        Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Science, Space, and Technology, and the Committee on Energy and 
        Commerce of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Microlab.--The term ``microlab'' means a facility that is--
            (A) in close proximity to, but outside the perimeter of, a 
        national security laboratory;
            (B) an extension of or affiliated with a national security 
        laboratory; and
            (C) accessible to the public.
        (3) National security laboratory.--The term ``national security 
    laboratory'' has the meaning given that term in section 3281 of the 
    National Nuclear Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2471).
SEC. 3121. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR PROVISION OF 
DEFENSE NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION ASSISTANCE TO RUSSIAN FEDERATION.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for 
defense nuclear nonproliferation activities may be obligated or 
expended to enter into a contract with, or otherwise provide assistance 
to, the Russian Federation.
    (b) Waiver.--The Secretary of Energy, without delegation, may waive 
the prohibition in subsection (a) if the Secretary--
        (1) submits to the appropriate congressional committees a 
    report containing--
            (A) notification that such a waiver is in the national 
        security interest of the United States; and
            (B) justification for such a waiver; and
        (2) a period of 15 days elapses following the date on which the 
    Secretary submits such report.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 3122. PROHIBITION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NEW FIXED SITE 
RADIOLOGICAL PORTAL MONITORS IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES.
    (a) Prohibition.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated 
by this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the 
National Nuclear Security Administration may be obligated or expended 
for the installation, on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, of fixed site radiological portal monitors or equipment in foreign 
countries until the date on which the Director of National Intelligence 
submits to the Administrator for Nuclear Security and the appropriate 
congressional committees, consistent with the provision of classified 
information and protection of sources and methods, a report containing 
an assessment of--
        (1) whether and the extent to which fixed site and mobile 
    radiological monitors address nuclear nonproliferation and 
    smuggling threats;
        (2) the contribution of other threat reduction programs and how 
    well such programs address nuclear nonproliferation and smuggling 
    threats;
        (3) which programs have the greatest impact and cost-benefit 
    for addressing nuclear nonproliferation and smuggling threats; and
        (4) such other matters as the Director considers appropriate.
    (b) Plan Required.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the 
    Administrator shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees a plan for transitioning fixed site radiological portal 
    monitors installed in foreign countries before or after the date of 
    the enactment of this Act to being sustained, to the greatest 
    extent possible, by the countries in which such monitors are 
    located.
        (2) Elements.--The plan required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) timelines for the transition of the radiological portal 
        monitors described in paragraph (1) to being sustained by the 
        countries in which such monitors are located; and
            (B) an estimate of the costs expected to be incurred by the 
        United States before the transition is complete.
    (c) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and the 
    Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of 
    Representatives; and
        (3) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate and the 
    Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives.
SEC. 3123. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR CERTAIN ARMS CONTROL 
AND NONPROLIFERATION TECHNOLOGIES.
    (a) In General.--None of the funds authorized to be appropriated by 
this Act or otherwise made available for fiscal year 2016 for the 
Office of Nonproliferation and Arms Control of the National Nuclear 
Security Administration may be obligated or expended to test and 
validate arms control and nonproliferation vertification and monitoring 
technologies designed to be used to verify and monitor obligations 
under arms control treaties or other international agreements to which 
the United States is not a signatory until the Administrator for 
Nuclear Security submits to the congressional defense committees a 
comprehensive review of all arms control and nonproliferation 
vertification and monitoring technologies that are in research and 
development or production as of the date of the enactment of this Act 
under the defense nuclear nonproliferation programs of the 
Administration.
    (b) Elements.--The review required by subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to each arms control and nonproliferation vertification 
and monitoring technology covered by the review, a statement of--
        (1) the technology readiness level of the technology;
        (2) the obligation under a treaty or other international 
    agreement supported by the technology; and
        (3) the purpose for which the technology is being developed or 
    produced.
SEC. 3124. LIMITATION ON AVAILABILITY OF FUNDS FOR NUCLEAR WEAPONS 
DISMANTLEMENT.
    (a) Limitation on Maximum Amount for Dismantlement.--Of the funds 
authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise made available 
for fiscal year 2016 for the National Nuclear Security Administration, 
not more than $50,000,000 may be obligated or expended to carry out the 
nuclear weapons dismantlement and disposition activities of the 
Administration.
    (b) Limitation on Dismantlement of Certain Cruise Missile 
Warheads.--
        (1) In general.--Except as provided by paragraph (2), none of 
    the funds authorized to be appropriated by this Act or otherwise 
    made available for fiscal year 2016 for the National Nuclear 
    Security Administration may be obligated or expended to dismantle 
    or dispose of a W84 nuclear weapon.
        (2) Exception.--The limitation in paragraph (1) shall not apply 
    to activities necessary to conduct maintenance or surveillance of 
    the nuclear weapons stockpile or activities to ensure the safety or 
    reliability of the nuclear weapons stockpile.

                     Subtitle C--Plans and Reports

SEC. 3131. LONG-TERM PLAN FOR MEETING NATIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 
FOR UNENCUMBERED URANIUM.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2521 et seq.), as amended by section 3112, is 
further amended by adding at the end the following new section:
``SEC. 4221. LONG-TERM PLAN FOR MEETING NATIONAL SECURITY REQUIREMENTS 
FOR UNENCUMBERED URANIUM.
    ``(a) In General.--Concurrent with the submission to Congress of 
the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, in each even-numbered year beginning in 2016 and ending in 
2026, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the congressional defense 
committees a plan for meeting national security requirements for 
unencumbered uranium through 2065.
    ``(b) Plan Requirements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
        ``(1) An inventory of unencumbered uranium (other than depleted 
    uranium), by program source and enrichment level, that, as of the 
    date of the plan, is allocated to national security requirements.
        ``(2) An inventory of unencumbered uranium (other than depleted 
    uranium), by program source and enrichment level, that, as of the 
    date of the plan, is not allocated to national security 
    requirements but could be allocated to such requirements.
        ``(3) An identification of national security requirements for 
    unencumbered uranium, by program source and enrichment level.
        ``(4) A description of any shortfall in obtaining unencumbered 
    uranium to meet national security requirements and an assessment of 
    whether that shortfall could be mitigated through the blending down 
    of uranium that is of a higher enrichment level.
        ``(5) An inventory of unencumbered depleted uranium, an 
    assessment of the portion of that uranium that could be allocated 
    to national security requirements through re-enrichment, and an 
    estimate of the costs of re-enriching that uranium.
        ``(6) A description of the swap and barter agreements involving 
    unencumbered uranium needed to meet national security requirements 
    that are in effect on the date of the plan.
        ``(7) An assessment of whether additional enrichment of uranium 
    will be required to meet national security requirements and an 
    estimate of the time for production operations and the cost for 
    each type of enrichment being considered.
        ``(8) A description of changes in policy that would mitigate 
    any shortfall in obtaining unencumbered uranium to meet national 
    security requirements and the implications of those changes.
    ``(c) Form of Plan.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex.
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `depleted', with respect to uranium, means that 
    the uranium is depleted in uranium-235 compared with natural 
    uranium.
        ``(2) The term `unencumbered', with respect to uranium, means 
    that the United States has no obligation to foreign governments to 
    use the uranium for only peaceful purposes.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act, as 
amended by section 3112, is further amended by inserting after the item 
relating to section 4220 the following new item:

``Sec. 4221. Long-term plan for meeting national security requirements 
          for unencumbered uranium.''.
SEC. 3132. DEFENSE NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION MANAGEMENT PLAN AND 
REPORTS.
    (a) Defense Nuclear Proliferation Management Plan.--
        (1) In general.--Title XLIII of the Atomic Energy Defense Act 
    (50 U.S.C. 2563 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the 
    following new section:
``SEC. 4309. DEFENSE NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION MANAGEMENT PLAN.
    ``(a) In General.--Concurrent with the submission to Congress of 
the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code, in each fiscal year, the Administrator shall submit to the 
congressional defense committees a five-year management plan for 
activities associated with the defense nuclear nonproliferation 
programs of the Administration to prevent and counter the proliferation 
of materials, technology, equipment, and expertise related to nuclear 
and radiological weapons in order to minimize and address the risk of 
nuclear terrorism and the proliferation of such weapons.
    ``(b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include, 
with respect to each defense nuclear nonproliferation program of the 
Administration, the following:
        ``(1) A description of the policy context in which the program 
    operates, including--
            ``(A) a list of relevant laws, policy directives issued by 
        the President, and international agreements; and
            ``(B) nuclear nonproliferation activities carried out by 
        other Federal agencies.
        ``(2) A description of the objectives and priorities of the 
    program during the year preceding the submission of the plan 
    required by subsection (a).
        ``(3) A description of the activities carried out under the 
    program during that year.
        ``(4) A description of the accomplishments and challenges of 
    the program during that year, based on an assessment of metrics and 
    objectives previously established to determine the effectiveness of 
    the program.
        ``(5) A description of any gaps that remain that were not or 
    could not be addressed by the program during that year.
        ``(6) An identification and explanation of uncommitted or 
    uncosted balances for the program, as of the date of the submission 
    of the plan required by subsection (a), that are greater than the 
    acceptable carryover thresholds, as determined by the Secretary of 
    Energy.
        ``(7) An identification of funds for the program received 
    through contributions from or cost-sharing agreements with foreign 
    governments consistent section 3132(f) of the Ronald W. Reagan 
    National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2005 (50 U.S.C. 
    2569(f)) during the year preceding the submission of the plan 
    required by subsection (a) and an explanation of such contributions 
    and agreements.
        ``(8) A description and assessment of activities carried out 
    under the program during that year that were coordinated with other 
    elements of the Department of Energy, with the Department of 
    Defense, and with other Federal agencies, to maximize efficiency 
    and avoid redundancies.
        ``(9) Plans for activities of the program during the five-year 
    period beginning on the date on which the plan required by 
    subsection (a) is submitted, including activities with respect to 
    the following:
            ``(A) Preventing nuclear and radiological proliferation and 
        terrorism, including through--
                ``(i) material management and minimization, 
            particularly with respect to removing or minimizing the use 
            of highly enriched uranium, plutonium, and radiological 
            materials worldwide (and identifying the countries in which 
            such materials are located), efforts to dispose of surplus 
            material, converting reactors from highly enriched uranium 
            to low-enriched uranium (and identifying the countries in 
            which such reactors are located);
                ``(ii) global nuclear material security, including 
            securing highly enriched uranium, plutonium, and 
            radiological materials worldwide (and identifying the 
            countries in which such materials are located), and 
            providing radiation detection capabilities at foreign ports 
            and borders;
                ``(iii) nonproliferation and arms control, including 
            nuclear verification and safeguards;
                ``(iv) defense nuclear research and development, 
            including a description of activities related to developing 
            and improving technology to detect the proliferation and 
            detonation of nuclear weapons, verifying compliance of 
            foreign countries with commitments under treaties and 
            agreements relating to nuclear weapons, and detecting the 
            diversion of nuclear materials (including safeguards 
            technology); and
                ``(v) nonproliferation construction programs, including 
            activities associated Department of Energy Order 413.1 
            (relating to program management controls).
            ``(B) Countering nuclear and radiological proliferation and 
        terrorism.
            ``(C) Responding to nuclear and radiological proliferation 
        and terrorism, including through--
                ``(i) crisis operations;
                ``(ii) consequences management; and
                ``(iii) emergency management, including international 
            capacity building.
        ``(10) A threat assessment, carried out by the intelligence 
    community (as defined in section 3(4) of the National Security Act 
    of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))), with respect to the risk of nuclear 
    and radiological proliferation and terrorism and a description of 
    how each activity carried out under the program will counter the 
    threat during the five-year period beginning on the date on which 
    the plan required by subsection (a) is submitted and, as 
    appropriate, in the longer term.
        ``(11) A plan for funding the program during that five-year 
    period.
        ``(12) An identification of metrics and objectives for 
    determining the effectiveness of each activity carried out under 
    the program during that five-year period.
        ``(13) A description of the activities to be carried out under 
    the program during that five-year period and a description of how 
    the program will be prioritized relative to other defense nuclear 
    nonproliferation programs of the Administration during that five-
    year period to address the highest priority risks and requirements, 
    as informed by the threat assessment carried out under paragraph 
    (10).
        ``(14) A description of funds for the program expected to be 
    received during that five-year period through contributions from or 
    cost-sharing agreements with foreign governments consistent section 
    3132(f) of the Ronald W. Reagan National Defense Authorization Act 
    for Fiscal Year 2005 (50 U.S.C. 2569(f)).
        ``(15) A description and assessment of activities to be carried 
    out under the program during that five-year period that will be 
    coordinated with other elements of the Department of Energy, with 
    the Department of Defense, and with other Federal agencies, to 
    maximize efficiency and avoid redundancies.
        ``(16) Such other matters as the Administrator considers 
    appropriate.
    ``(c) Form of Report.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted to the congressional defense committees in unclassified form, 
but may include a classified annex if necessary.''.
        (2) Clerical amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
    amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4308 the 
    following new item:

``Sec. 4309. Defense nuclear nonproliferation management plan.''.

    (b) Extension and Modification of Certain Annual Reports on Nuclear 
Nonproliferation.--Section 3122 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2012 (Public Law 112-81; 125 Stat. 1710) is 
amended--
        (1) by striking subsections (a) and (b);
        (2) by redesignating subsections (c), (d), and (e) as 
    subsections (a), (b), and (c), respectively;
        (3) in subsection (a), as redesignated by paragraph (2)--
            (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``2016'' and inserting ``2020'';
            (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting after ``world,'' the 
        following: ``including an identification of such uranium that 
        is obligated by the United States,''; and
            (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
        ``(3) A list, by country and site, reflecting the total amount 
    of separated plutonium around the world, including an 
    identification of such plutonium that is obligated by the United 
    States, and an assessment of the vulnerability of the plutonium to 
    theft or diversion.''; and
        (4) in paragraph (2) of subsection (b), as so redesignated, by 
    striking ``subsection (c)(2)'' and inserting ``paragraph (2) or (3) 
    of subsection (a)''.
    (c) Conforming Repeal.--Section 3145 of the National Defense 
Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 
2197) is repealed.
SEC. 3133. PLAN FOR DEACTIVATION AND DECOMMISSIONING OF NONOPERATIONAL 
DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle B of title XLIV of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2602 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end 
the following new section:
``SEC. 4423. PLAN FOR DEACTIVATION AND DECOMMISSIONING OF 
NONOPERATIONAL DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES.
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary of Energy shall, during each even-
numbered year beginning in 2016, develop and subsequently carry out a 
plan for the activities of the Department of Energy relating to the 
deactivation and decommissioning of nonoperational defense nuclear 
facilities.
    ``(b) Elements.--The plan required by subsection (a) shall include 
the following:
        ``(1) A list of nonoperational defense nuclear facilities, 
    prioritized for deactivation and decommissioning based on the 
    potential to reduce risks to human health, property, or the 
    environment and to maximize cost savings.
        ``(2) An assessment of the life cycle costs of each 
    nonoperational defense nuclear facility during the period beginning 
    on the date on which the plan is submitted under subsection (d) and 
    ending on the earlier of--
            ``(A) the date that is 25 years after the date on which the 
        plan is submitted; or
            ``(B) the estimated date for deactivation and 
        decommissioning of the facility.
        ``(3) An estimate of the cost and time needed to deactivate and 
    decommission each nonoperational defense nuclear facility.
        ``(4) A schedule for when the Office of Environmental 
    Management will accept each nonoperational defense nuclear facility 
    for deactivation and decommissioning.
        ``(5) An estimate of costs that could be avoided by--
            ``(A) accelerating the cleanup of nonoperational defense 
        nuclear facilities; or
            ``(B) other means, such as reusing such facilities for 
        another purpose.
    ``(c) Plan for Transfer of Responsibility for Certain Facilities.--
The Secretary shall, during 2016, develop and subsequently carry out a 
plan under which the Administrator shall transfer, by March 31, 2019, 
to the Assistant Secretary for Environmental Management the 
responsibility for decontaminating and decommissioning facilities of 
the Administration that the Secretary determines--
        ``(1) are nonoperational as of September 30, 2015; and
        ``(2) meet the requirements of the Office of Environmental 
    Management for such transfer.
    ``(d) Submission to Congress.--Not later than March 31 of each 
even-numbered year beginning in 2016, the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate congressional committees a report that includes--
        ``(1) the plan required by subsection (a);
        ``(2) a description of the deactivation and decommissioning 
    actions expected to be taken during the following fiscal year 
    pursuant to the plan;
        ``(3) in the case of the report submitting during 2016, the 
    plan required by subsection (c); and
        ``(4) in the case of a report submitted during 2018 or any year 
    thereafter, a description of the deactivation and decommissioning 
    actions taken at each nonoperational defense nuclear facility 
    during the preceding fiscal year.
    ``(e) Termination.--The requirements of this section shall 
terminate after the submission to the appropriate congressional 
committees of the report required by subsection (d) to be submitted not 
later than March 31, 2026.
    ``(f) Definitions.--In this section:
        ``(1) The term `appropriate congressional committees' means--
            ``(A) the congressional defense committees; and
            ``(B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the 
        Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives.
        ``(2) The term `life cycle costs', with respect to a facility, 
    means--
            ``(A) the present and future costs of all resources and 
        associated cost elements required to develop, produce, deploy, 
        or sustain the facility; and
            ``(B) the present and future costs to deactivate, 
        decommission, and deconstruct the facility.
        ``(3) The term `nonoperational defense nuclear facility' means 
    a production facility or utilization facility (as those terms are 
    defined in section 11 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 
    2014)) under the control or jurisdiction of the Secretary of Energy 
    and operated for national security purposes that is no longer 
    needed for the mission of the Department of Energy, including the 
    National Nuclear Security Administration.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4422 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4423. Plan for deactivation and decommissioning of nonoperational 
          defense nuclear facilities.''.
SEC. 3134. ASSESSMENT OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
FACILITIES.
    (a) In General.--Subtitle A of title XLVIII of the Atomic Energy 
Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2781 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 4802 the following new section:
``SEC. 4802A. ASSESSMENTS OF EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR 
FACILITIES.
    ``The Secretary of Energy shall include, in each award-fee 
evaluation conducted under section 16.401 of title 48, Code of Federal 
Regulations, of a management and operating contract for a Department of 
Energy defense nuclear facility in 2016 or any even-numbered year 
thereafter, an assessment of the adequacy of the emergency preparedness 
of that facility, including an assessment of the seniority level of 
management and operating contractor employees that participate in 
emergency preparedness exercises at that facility.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents for such Act is 
amended by inserting after the item relating to section 4802 the 
following new item:

``Sec. 4802A. Assessments of emergency preparedness of defense nuclear 
          facilities.''.
SEC. 3135. MODIFICATIONS TO COST-BENEFIT ANALYSES FOR COMPETITION OF 
MANAGEMENT AND OPERATING CONTRACTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 3121 of the National Defense Authorization 
Act for Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2175), as 
amended by section 3124 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
Fiscal Year 2014 (Public Law 113-66; 127 Stat. 1062), is further 
amended--
        (1) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
        (2) by striking subsections (b) and (c) and inserting the 
    following new subsections:
    ``(b) Report Described.--A report described in this subsection is a 
report on a contract described by subsection (a) that includes--
        ``(1) a clear and complete description of the cost savings the 
    Administrator expects to result from the competition for the 
    contract over the life of the contract, including associated 
    analyses, assumptions, and information sources used to determine 
    such expected cost savings;
        ``(2) a description of any key limitations or uncertainties 
    that could affect such costs savings, including costs savings that 
    are anticipated but not fully known;
        ``(3) the costs of the competition for the contract, including 
    the immediate costs of conducting the competition and any increased 
    costs over the life of the contract;
        ``(4) a description of any disruptions or delays in mission 
    activities or deliverables resulting from the competition for the 
    contract;
        ``(5) a clear and complete description of the benefits expected 
    by the Administrator with respect to mission performance or 
    operations resulting from the competition;
        ``(6) how the competition for the contract complied with the 
    Federal Acquisition Regulation regarding federally funded research 
    and development centers, if applicable;
        ``(7) the factors considered and processes used by the 
    Administrator to determine--
            ``(A) whether to compete or extend the contract; and
            ``(B) which activities at the facility should be covered 
        under the contract rather than under a different contract;
        ``(8) with respect to the matters included under paragraphs (1) 
    through (7), a detailed description of the analyses conducted by 
    the Administrator to reach the conclusions presented in the report, 
    including any assumptions, limitations, and uncertainties relating 
    to such conclusions; and
        ``(9) any other matters the Administrator considers 
    appropriate.
    ``(c) Information Quality.--A report required by subsection (a) 
shall be prepared in accordance with--
        ``(1) the information quality guidelines of the Department of 
    Energy that are relevant to the clear and complete presentation of 
    information on each matter required to be included in the report 
    under subsection (b); and
        ``(2) best practices of the Government Accountability Office 
    and relevant industries for cost estimating, if appropriate.
    ``(d) Review by Comptroller General of the United States.--
        ``(1) Initial review.--Except as provided in paragraph (3), the 
    Comptroller General of the United States shall provide a briefing 
    to the congressional defense committees that includes a review of 
    each report required by subsection (a) not later than 180 days 
    after the report is submitted to such committees.
        ``(2) Comprehensive review.--Except as provided in paragraph 
    (3), the Comptroller General shall submit to the congressional 
    defense committees a review of each report required by subsection 
    (a) with respect to a contract not later than 3 years after the 
    report is submitted to such committees that includes an assessment, 
    based on the most current information available, of the following:
            ``(A) The actual cost savings achieved compared to cost 
        savings estimated under subsection (b)(1), and any increased 
        costs incurred under the contract that were unexpected or 
        uncertain at the time the contract was awarded.
            ``(B) Any disruptions or delays in mission activities or 
        deliverables resulting from the competition for the contract 
        compared to the disruptions and delays estimated under 
        subsection (b)(4).
            ``(C) Whether expected benefits of the competition with 
        respect to mission performance or operations have been 
        achieved.
            ``(D) Such other matters as the Comptroller General 
        considers appropriate.
        ``(3) Exception.--The Comptroller General may not conduct a 
    review under paragraph (1) or (2) of a report relating to a 
    contract to manage and operate a facility of the National Nuclear 
    Security Administration while a protest described in subsection 
    (a)(2) is pending with respect to that contract.''; and
        (3) in subsection (e), as redesignated by paragraph (1)--
            (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2017'' and inserting 
        ``2020'';
            (B) by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraph 
        (3) as paragraph (2); and
            (C) in paragraph (2), as redesignated by subparagraph (B), 
        by striking ``and (d)(2)''.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) in the past decade, competition of the management and 
    operating contracts for the national security laboratories has 
    resulted in significant increases in fees paid to the contractors--
    funding that otherwise could be used to support program and mission 
    activities of the National Nuclear Security Administration;
        (2) competition of the management and operating contracts of 
    the nuclear security enterprise is an important mechanism to help 
    realize cost savings, seek efficiencies, improve performance, and 
    hold contractors accountable;
        (3) when the Administrator for Nuclear Security considers it 
    appropriate to achieve those goals, the Administrator should 
    conduct competition of such contracts while recognizing the unique 
    nature of federally funded research and development centers; and
        (4) the Administrator should ensure that fixed fees and 
    performance-based fees contained in management and operating 
    contracts are as low as possible to maintain a focus on national 
    service while attracting high-quality contractors and achieving the 
    goals of the competition.
SEC. 3136. INTERAGENCY REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR THE TRANSFER OF 
UNITED STATES CIVIL NUCLEAR TECHNOLOGY.
    (a) Report on Transfers to Covered Foreign Countries.--Not less 
frequently than every 90 days, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to 
the appropriate congressional committees a report that includes--
        (1) a description of the authorizations under section 57 b. of 
    the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b)) to transfer 
    United States civil nuclear technology to a covered foreign country 
    during the preceding 90 days; and
        (2) a statement of whether any agency required to be consulted 
    under that section or pursuant to regulation objected to or sought 
    conditions on each such transfer.
    (b) Determination of Technologies to Be Protected.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and every five years thereafter, the 
    Secretary of Energy shall--
            (A) in consultation with the Secretary of State, the 
        Secretary of Commerce, the Secretary of Defense, the Director 
        of National Intelligence, and the Nuclear Regulatory 
        Commission, determine the critical United States civil nuclear 
        technologies that should be protected from diversion to a 
        military program of a covered foreign country, including with 
        respect to a naval propulsion or weapons program; and
            (B) notify the appropriate congressional committees with 
        respect to the determination and the technologies covered by 
        the determination.
        (2) Notification.--
            (A) In general.--Except as provided in subparagraph (B), 
        not later than 14 days before making an authorization under 
        section 57 b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 
        2077(b)) for the transfer of a technology covered by a 
        determination under paragraph (1) to a covered foreign country, 
        the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the appropriate 
        congressional committees a report that includes--
                (i) a notification of the intention of the Secretary to 
            make the authorization for the transfer of such technology; 
            and
                (ii) a statement of whether any agency required to be 
            consulted under such section 57 b. or pursuant to 
            regulation objected to or sought conditions on the 
            transfer.
            (B) Waiver of deadline.--The Secretary may waive the 
        requirement under subparagraph (A) to submit the report 
        required by that subparagraph not later than 14 days before 
        making an authorization for the transfer of a technology 
        covered by a determination under paragraph (1) to a covered 
        foreign country if the Secretary--
                (i) determines that an imminent radiological hazard 
            exists; and
                (ii) not later than 7 days after determining that such 
            hazard exists, submits to the appropriate congressional 
            committees--

                    (I) a certification that the hazard exists;
                    (II) a justification for the waiver; and
                    (III) the notification required by clause (i) of 
                subparagraph (A) and the statement required by clause 
                (ii) of that subparagraph.

    (c) Consultations With Intelligence Community.--
        (1) In general.--The Secretary of Energy shall expeditiously 
    revise part 810 of title 10, Code of Federal Regulations, to ensure 
    that the Director of National Intelligence--
            (A) is consulted with respect to the views of the 
        intelligence community (as defined in section 3(4) of the 
        National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4))) with respect 
        to each authorization issued under section 57 b. of the Atomic 
        Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b)) for the transfer of 
        United States civil nuclear technology to a covered foreign 
        country before the determination to approve or disapprove the 
        request for the authorization; and
            (B) is provided with an opportunity to present the views of 
        the Director and the intelligence community on the national 
        security risks of the transfer, if any.
        (2) Submission to congress.--The Secretary of Energy, jointly 
    with the Director of National Intelligence, shall include the 
    results of consultations conducted under paragraph (1) in each 
    report under subsection (a) and each notification under subsection 
    (b)(2).
    (d) Report on Compliance of Covered Foreign Countries and End-
users.--Not less frequently than annually, the Secretary of Energy 
shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report that 
includes--
        (1) an assessment of whether each covered foreign country is in 
    compliance with its obligations under any authorization for the 
    transfer of United States civil nuclear technology under section 57 
    b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b));
        (2) with respect to any covered foreign country that is not in 
    compliance with such obligations--
            (A) a description the efforts of the United States to bring 
        the country into compliance;
            (B) an evaluation of the result of such efforts; and
            (C) an assessment of the options available to the Secretary 
        as a result of the country not being in compliance;
        (3) an assessment of whether each end-user to which United 
    States civil nuclear technology is transferred pursuant to an 
    authorization under such section 57 b. is in compliance with the 
    obligations of the end-user under that authorization; and
        (4) a description of any consequences for the end-user or the 
    exporter of the technology if the end-user is not in compliance 
    with such obligations.
    (e) Report on Transfers to All Foreign Countries.--
        (1) In general.--Concurrent with the submission to Congress of 
    the budget of the President for a fiscal year under section 1105(a) 
    of title 31, United States Code, the Secretary of Energy shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the 
    activities of the Department of Energy associated with the review 
    of applications for authorization under section 57 b. of the Atomic 
    Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b)) to transfer United States 
    civil nuclear technology to any foreign country.
        (2) Elements.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall 
    include--
            (A) the number of applications for authorization under 
        section 57 b. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 
        2077(b)) to transfer United States civil nuclear technology to 
        a foreign country submitted during the year preceding the 
        submission of the report;
            (B) the length of time each such application was under 
        review;
            (C) the number of such applications that were granted; and
            (D) a description of efforts to streamline the review of 
        such applications, taking into account the proliferation and 
        diversion potential of end-users in the country to which United 
        States civil nuclear technology would be transferred pursuant 
        to such applications.
    (f) Notifications of Potential Diversions.--The Director of 
National Intelligence shall notify the Department of Energy and the 
appropriate congressional committees not later than 30 days after the 
date on which the Director determines that there is credible 
intelligence that United States civil nuclear technology is being or 
has been diverted--
        (1) to a military program in a foreign country to which the 
    transfer of the technology was authorized under section 57 b. of 
    the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b)); or
        (2) to a foreign country to which the transfer of the 
    technology was not so authorized.
    (g) Guidelines.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall issue guidance 
with respect to the use of the clear and intended authority of the 
Secretary under section 234 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 
2282) to impose civil penalties, including fines and debarment, and to 
make referrals to the Attorney General for prosecution, for violations 
of the terms of authorizations for the transfer of United States civil 
nuclear technology issued under section 57 b. of the Atomic Energy Act 
of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2077(b)).
    (h) Report on Transfer of Sensitive Items.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the President shall 
    submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report--
            (A) describing the efforts of covered foreign countries to 
        prevent the transfer of sensitive items, including efforts to 
        improve the prevention of the transfer of such items; and
            (B) assessing the adequacy of such efforts.
        (2) Sensitive items defined.--In this subsection, the term 
    ``sensitive items'' means goods, services, and technologies 
    described in section 2(a) of the Iran, North Korea, and Syria 
    Nonproliferation Act (Public Law 106-178; 50 U.S.C. 1701 note).
    (i) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the congressional defense committees;
            (B) the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations, and the Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the Senate; and
            (C) the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs, and the Permanent Select Committee on 
        Intelligence of the House of Representatives.
        (2) Covered foreign country.--The term ``covered foreign 
    country'' means a foreign country that is a nuclear-weapon state, 
    as defined by Article IX(3) of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
    of Nuclear Weapons, signed at Washington, London, and Moscow July 
    1, 1968, but does not include the United States, the United 
    Kingdom, or France.
SEC. 3137. GOVERNANCE AND MANAGEMENT OF NUCLEAR SECURITY ENTERPRISE.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) correcting the longstanding problems with the governance 
    and management of the nuclear security enterprise will require 
    robust, personal, and long-term engagement by the President, the 
    Secretary of Energy, the Administrator for Nuclear Security, and 
    leaders from the appropriate congressional committees;
        (2) recent and past studies of the governance and management of 
    the nuclear security enterprise have provided a list of reasonable, 
    practical, and actionable steps that the Secretary and the 
    Administrator should take to make the nuclear security enterprise 
    more efficient and more effective; and
        (3) lasting and effective change to the nuclear security 
    enterprise will require personal engagement by senior leaders, a 
    clear plan, and mechanisms for ensuring follow-through and 
    accountability.
    (b) Implementation Plan.--
        (1) Implementation action team.--(A) The Secretary and the 
    Administrator shall jointly establish a team of senior officials 
    from the Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security 
    Administration to develop and carry out an implementation plan to 
    reform the governance and management of the nuclear security 
    enterprise to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the 
    nuclear security enterprise. Such plan shall be developed and 
    implemented in accordance with the National Nuclear Security 
    Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2401 et seq.), the Atomic Energy 
    Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501 et seq.), and any other provision of 
    law.
        (B) The team established under paragraph (1) shall be co-
    chaired by the Deputy Secretary of Energy and the Administrator.
        (C) In developing and carrying out the implementation plan, the 
    team shall consult with the implementation assessment panel 
    established under subsection (c)(1).
        (2) Elements.--The implementation plan developed under 
    paragraph (1)(A) shall address all recommendations contained in the 
    covered study (except such recommendations that require legislative 
    action to carry out) by identifying specific actions, milestones, 
    timelines, and responsible personnel to implement such plan.
        (3) Submission.--Not later than March 31, 2016, the Secretary 
    and the Administrator shall jointly submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees the implementation plan developed under 
    paragraph (1)(A).
    (c) Implementation Assessment Panel.--
        (1) Agreement.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall seek to enter into a 
    joint agreement with the National Academy of Sciences and the 
    National Academy of Public Administration to establish a panel of 
    external, independent experts to evaluate the implementation plan 
    developed under subsection (b)(1)(A) and the implementation of such 
    plan.
        (2) Duties.--The panel established under paragraph (1) shall--
            (A) provide guidance to the Secretary and the Administrator 
        with respect to the implementation plan developed under 
        subsection (b)(1)(A), including how such plan compares or 
        contrasts with the covered study;
            (B) track the implementation of such plan; and
            (C) assess the effectiveness of such plan.
        (3) Reports.--(A) Not later than July 1, 2016, the panel 
    established under paragraph (1) shall submit to the appropriate 
    congressional committees, the Secretary, and the Administrator an 
    initial assessment of the implementation plan developed under 
    subsection (b)(1)(A), including with respect to the completeness of 
    the plan, how the plan aligns with the intent and recommendations 
    made by the covered study, and the prospects for success for the 
    plan.
        (B) Beginning February 28, 2017, and semiannually thereafter 
    through 2020, the panel established under paragraph (1) shall brief 
    the appropriate congressional committees, the Secretary, and the 
    Administrator on the efforts of the Secretary and the Administrator 
    to implement the implementation plan developed under subsection 
    (b)(1)(A).
        (C) Not later than September 30, 2020, the panel established 
    under paragraph (1) shall submit to the appropriate congressional 
    committees, the Secretary, and the Administrator a final report on 
    the efforts of the Secretary and the Administrator to implement the 
    implementation plan developed under subsection (b)(1)(A), including 
    an assessment of the effectiveness of the reform efforts under such 
    plan and whether further action is needed.
        (4) Cooperation.--The Secretary and the Administrator shall 
    provide to the panel established under paragraph (1) full and 
    timely access to all information, personnel, and systems of the 
    Department of Energy and the National Nuclear Security 
    Administration that the panel determines necessary to carry out 
    this subsection.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
    ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
            (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy and Natural 
        Resources of the Senate; and
            (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on 
        Appropriations, and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the 
        House of Representatives.
        (2) Covered study.--The term ``covered study'' means the 
    following:
            (A) The final report of the Congressional Advisory Panel on 
        the Governance of the Nuclear Security Enterprise established 
        by section 3166 of the National Defense Authorization Act for 
        Fiscal Year 2013 (Public Law 112-239; 126 Stat. 2208).
            (B) Any other study not conducted by the Secretary or the 
        Administrator that the Secretary determines appropriate for 
        purposes of this section.
        (3) Nuclear security enterprise.--The term ``nuclear security 
    enterprise'' has the meaning given that term in section 4002(6) of 
    the Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(6)).
    (e) Rules of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to authorize any action--
        (1) in contravention of section 3220 of the National Nuclear 
    Security Administration Act (50 U.S.C. 2410); or
        (2) that would undermine or weaken health, safety, or security.
SEC. 3138. ANNUAL REPORT ON NUMBER OF FULL-TIME EQUIVALENT EMPLOYEES 
AND CONTRACTOR EMPLOYEES.
    Section 3241A of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act 
(50 U.S.C. 2441a) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subsection:
    ``(f) Annual Report.--The Administrator shall include in the budget 
justification materials submitted to Congress in support of the budget 
of the Administration for each fiscal year (as submitted with the 
budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, United 
States Code) a report containing the following information as of the 
date of the report:
        ``(1) The number of full-time equivalent employees of the 
    Office of the Administrator, as counted under subsection (a).
        ``(2) The number of service support contracts of the 
    Administration and whether such contracts are funded using program 
    or program direction funds.
        ``(3) The number of full-time equivalent contractor employees 
    working under each contract identified under paragraph (2).
        ``(4) The number of full-time equivalent contractor employees 
    described in paragraph (3) that have been employed under such a 
    contract for a period greater than two years.''.
SEC. 3139. DEVELOPMENT OF STRATEGY ON RISKS TO NONPROLIFERATION CAUSED 
BY ADDITIVE MANUFACTURING.
    (a) Strategy.--The President shall develop and pursue a strategy to 
address the risks to the goals and policies of the United States 
regarding nuclear nonproliferation that are caused by the increased use 
of additive manufacture technology (commonly referred to as ``3D 
printing''), including such technology that does not originate in the 
United States.
    (b) Briefings.--Not later than March 31, 2016, and the end of each 
120-day period thereafter through January 1, 2019, the President shall 
provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the 
strategy developed under subsection (a).
    (c) Pursuit of Strategy.--The President shall pursue the strategy 
developed under subsection (a) at the Nuclear Security Summit in 
Chicago, Illinois, in 2016.
    (d) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means the following:
        (1) The congressional defense committees.
        (2) The Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
        (3) The Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 3140. PLUTONIUM PIT PRODUCTION CAPACITY.
    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
        (1) the requirement to create a modern, responsive nuclear 
    infrastructure that includes the capability and capacity to 
    produce, at minimum, 50 to 80 pits per year, is a national security 
    priority;
        (2) delaying creation of a modern, responsive nuclear 
    infrastructure until the 2030s is an unacceptable risk to the 
    nuclear deterrent and the national security of the United States; 
    and
        (3) timelines for creating certain capacities for production of 
    plutonium pits and other nuclear weapons components must be driven 
    by the requirement to hedge against technical and geopolitical risk 
    and not solely by the needs of life extension programs.
    (b) Briefing.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than March 1, 2016, the Chairman of 
    the Nuclear Weapons Council established under section 179 of title 
    10, United States Code, in consultation with the Administrator for 
    Nuclear Security and the Commander of the United States Strategic 
    Command, shall provide to the congressional defense committees a 
    briefing on the annual plutonium pit production capacity of the 
    nuclear security enterprise (as defined in section 4002(6) of the 
    Atomic Energy Defense Act (50 U.S.C. 2501(6))).
        (2) Elements.--The briefing under paragraph (1) shall describe 
    the following:
            (A) The pit production capacity requirement, including the 
        numbers of pits produced that are needed for nuclear weapons 
        life extension programs.
            (B) The annual pit production requirement, including the 
        numbers of pits produced, to support a responsive nuclear 
        weapons infrastructure to hedge against technical and 
        geopolitical risk.
SEC. 3141. ASSESSMENTS ON NUCLEAR PROLIFERATION RISKS AND NUCLEAR 
NONPROLIFERATION OPPORTUNITIES.
    (a) Reports.--Not later than March 1, 2016, and each year 
thereafter through 2020, the Director of National Intelligence shall 
submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report, consistent 
with the provision of classified information and intelligence sources 
and methods, containing--
        (1) an assessment and prioritization of international nuclear 
    proliferation risks and nuclear nonproliferation opportunities; and
        (2) an assessment of the effectiveness of various means and 
    programs for addressing such risks and opportunities.
    (b) Appropriate Congressional Committees Defined.--In this section, 
the term ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
        (1) the congressional defense committees;
        (2) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
    Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
    Senate; and
        (3) the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House 
    of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the 
    Senate.
SEC. 3142. ANALYSIS OF ALTERNATIVES FOR MOBILE GUARDIAN TRANSPORTER 
PROGRAM.
    (a) Submission of Analysis of Alternatives.--Not later than 60 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for 
Nuclear Security shall submit to the congressional defense committees a 
report containing a full and comprehensive analysis of alternatives 
conducted by the Administrator for the Mobile Guardian Transporter 
program.
    (b) Identification in Budget Materials.--The Secretary of Energy 
shall include in the budget justification materials submitted to 
Congress in support of the Department of Energy budget (as submitted 
with the budget of the President under section 1105(a) of title 31, 
United States Code) for any fiscal year in which the Mobile Guardian 
Transporter program is carried out a separate, dedicated program 
element for such program.

          TITLE XXXII--DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD

Sec. 3201. Authorization.
Sec. 3202. Administration of Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety Board.
SEC. 3201. AUTHORIZATION.
    There are authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 2016, 
$29,150,000 for the operation of the Defense Nuclear Facilities Safety 
Board under chapter 21 of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286 
et seq.).
SEC. 3202. ADMINISTRATION OF DEFENSE NUCLEAR FACILITIES SAFETY BOARD.
    (a) Provision of Information to Board Members.--Section 311(c) of 
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2286(c)) is amended--
        (1) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), 
    by striking ``paragraph (5)'' and inserting ``paragraphs (5), (6), 
    and (7)''; and
        (2) by adding at the end the following new paragraph:
    ``(6) In carrying out paragraph (5)(B), the Chairman may not 
withhold from any member of the Board any information that is made 
available to the Chairman regarding the Board's functions, powers, and 
mission (including with respect to the management and evaluation of 
employees of the Board).''.
    (b) Senior Employees.--
        (1) Appointment and removal.-- Such section 311(c), as amended 
    by subsection (a), is further amended by adding at the end the 
    following new paragraph:
    ``(7)(A) The Chairman, subject to the approval of the Board, shall 
appoint the senior employees described in subparagraph (C).
    ``(B) The Chairman, subject to the approval of the Board, may 
remove a senior employee described in subparagraph (C).
    ``(C) The senior employees described in this subparagraph are the 
following senior employees of the Board:
        ``(i) The senior employee responsible for budgetary and general 
    administration matters.
        ``(ii) The general counsel.
        ``(iii) The senior employee responsible for technical 
    matters.''.
        (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 313(b)(1)(A) of such Act (42 
    U.S.C. 2286b(b)(1)) is amended by striking ``hire'' and inserting 
    ``in accordance with section 311(c)(7), hire''.

                 TITLE XXXIV--NAVAL PETROLEUM RESERVES

Sec. 3401. Authorization of appropriations.
SEC. 3401. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.
    (a) Amount.--There are hereby authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary of Energy $17,500,000 for fiscal year 2016 for the purpose of 
carrying out activities under chapter 641 of title 10, United States 
Code, relating to the naval petroleum reserves.
    (b) Period of Availability.--Funds appropriated pursuant to the 
authorization of appropriations in subsection (a) shall remain 
available until expended.

                  TITLE XXXV--MARITIME ADMINISTRATION

Sec. 3501. Authorization of the Maritime Administration.
Sec. 3502. Sense of Congress regarding Maritime Security Fleet program.
Sec. 3503. Update of references to the Secretary of Transportation 
          regarding unemployment insurance and vessel operators.
Sec. 3504. Payment for Maritime Security Fleet vessels.
Sec. 3505. Melville Hall of United States Merchant Marine Academy.
Sec. 3506. Cadet commitment agreements.
Sec. 3507. Student incentive payment agreements.
Sec. 3508. Short sea transportation defined.
SEC. 3501. AUTHORIZATION OF THE MARITIME ADMINISTRATION.
    Funds are hereby authorized to be appropriated for fiscal year 
2016, to be available without fiscal year limitation if so provided in 
appropriations Acts, for the use of the Department of Transportation 
for Maritime Administration programs associated with maintaining 
national security aspects of the merchant marine, as follows:
        (1) For expenses necessary for operations of the United States 
    Merchant Marine Academy, $96,028,000, of which--
            (A) $71,306,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        Academy operations; and
            (B) $24,722,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        capital asset management at the Academy.
        (2) For expenses necessary to support the State maritime 
    academies, $34,550,000, of which--
            (A) $2,400,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        student incentive payments;
            (B) $3,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        direct payments to such academies;
            (C) $1,800,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        training ship fuel assistance payments;
            (D) $22,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        maintenance and repair of State maritime academy training 
        vessels;
            (E) $5,000,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        the National Security Multi-Mission Vessel Design; and
            (F) $350,000 shall remain available until expended for 
        improving the monitoring of graduates' service obligation.
        (3) For expenses necessary to support Maritime Administration 
    operations and programs, $54,059,000.
        (4) For expenses necessary to dispose of vessels in the 
    National Defense Reserve Fleet, $8,000,000, to remain available 
    until expended.
        (5) For expenses to maintain and preserve a United States-flag 
    merchant marine to serve the national security needs of the United 
    States under chapter 531 of title 46, United States Code, 
    $210,000,000.
        (6) For the cost (as defined in section 502(5) of the Federal 
    Credit Reform Act of 1990 (2 U.S.C. 661a(5))) of loan guarantees 
    under the program authorized by chapter 537 of title 46, United 
    States Code, $3,135,000, of which $3,135,000 shall remain available 
    until expended for administrative expenses of the program.
SEC. 3502. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING MARITIME SECURITY FLEET PROGRAM.
    It is the sense of Congress that dedicated and enhanced support is 
necessary to stabilize and preserve the Maritime Security Fleet 
program, a program that provides the Department of Defense with on-
demand access to world class, economical commercial sealift capacity, 
assures a United States-flag presence in international commerce, 
supports a pool of qualified United States merchant mariners needed to 
crew United States-flag vessels during times of war or national 
emergency, and serves as a critical component of our national security 
infrastructure.
SEC. 3503. UPDATE OF REFERENCES TO THE SECRETARY OF TRANSPORTATION 
REGARDING UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE AND VESSEL OPERATORS.
    Sections 3305 and 3306(n) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are 
each amended by striking ``Secretary of Commerce'' each place that it 
appears and inserting ``Secretary of Transportation''.
SEC. 3504. PAYMENT FOR MARITIME SECURITY FLEET VESSELS.
    (a) Per-Vessel Authorization.--Notwithstanding section 
53106(a)(1)(C) of title 46, United States Code, and subject to the 
availability of appropriations, there is authorized to be paid to each 
contractor for an operating agreement (as those terms are used in that 
section) for fiscal year 2016, $3,500,000 for each vessel that is 
covered by the operating agreement.
    (b) Repeal of Other Authorization.--Section 53111(3) of title 46, 
United States Code, is amended by striking ``2016,''.
SEC. 3505. MELVILLE HALL OF UNITED STATES MERCHANT MARINE ACADEMY.
    (a) Gift to the Merchant Marine Academy.--The Maritime 
Administrator may accept a gift of money described in subsection (b) 
from the Foundation under section 51315 of title 46, United States 
Code, for the purpose of renovating Melville Hall on the campus of the 
United States Merchant Marine Academy.
    (b) Covered Gift.--A gift described in this subsection is a gift 
under subsection (a) that the Maritime Administrator determines exceeds 
the sum of--
        (1) the minimum amount that is sufficient to ensure the 
    renovation of Melville Hall in accordance with the capital 
    improvement plan of the United States Merchant Marine Academy that 
    was in effect on the date of enactment of this Act; and
        (2) 25 percent of the amount described in paragraph (1).
    (c) Operation Contracts.--Subject to subsection (d), in the case 
that the Maritime Administrator accepts a gift of money described in 
subsection (b), the Maritime Administrator may enter into a contract 
with the Foundation for the operation of Melville Hall to make 
available facilities for, among other possible uses, official academy 
functions, third-party catering functions, and industry events and 
conferences.
    (d) Contract Terms.--The contract described in subsection (c) shall 
be for such period and on such terms as the Maritime Administrator 
considers appropriate, including a provision, mutually agreeable to the 
Maritime Administrator and the Foundation, that--
        (1) requires the Foundation--
            (A) at the expense solely of the Foundation through the 
        term of the contract to maintain Melville Hall in a condition 
        that is as good as or better than the condition Melville Hall 
        was in on the later of--
                (i) the date that the renovation of Melville Hall was 
            completed; or
                (ii) the date that the Foundation accepted Melville 
            Hall after it was tendered to the Foundation by the 
            Maritime Administrator; and
            (B) to deposit all proceeds from the operation of Melville 
        Hall, after expenses necessary for the operation and 
        maintenance of Melville Hall, into the account of the 
        Regimental Affairs Non-Appropriated Fund Instrumentality or 
        successor entity, to be used solely for the morale and welfare 
        of the cadets of the United States Merchant Marine Academy; and
        (2) prohibits the use of Melville Hall as lodging or an office 
    by any person for more than 4 days in any calendar year other 
    than--
            (A) by the United States; or
            (B) for the administration and operation of Melville Hall.
    (e) Definitions.--In this section:
        (1) Contract.--The term ``contract'' includes any modification, 
    extension, or renewal of the contract.
        (2) Foundation.--The term ``Foundation'' means the United 
    States Merchant Marine Academy Alumni Association and Foundation, 
    Inc.
    (f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section may be construed 
under section 3105 of title 41, United States Code, as requiring the 
Maritime Administrator to award a contract for the operation of 
Melville Hall to the Foundation.
SEC. 3506. CADET COMMITMENT AGREEMENTS.
    Section 51306(a) of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking ``must'' 
    and inserting ``shall'';
        (2) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) obtain a merchant mariner license, unlimited as to 
    horsepower or tonnage, issued by the Coast Guard as an officer in 
    the merchant marine of the United States, accompanied by the 
    appropriate national and international endorsements and 
    certifications required by the Coast Guard for service aboard 
    vessels on domestic and international voyages, without limitation, 
    before graduation from the Academy;'';
        (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
        ``(3) for at least 6 years after graduation from the Academy, 
    maintain--
            ``(A) a valid merchant mariner license, unlimited as to 
        horsepower or tonnage, issued by the Coast Guard as an officer 
        in the merchant marine of the United States, accompanied by the 
        appropriate national and international endorsements and 
        certifications required by the Coast Guard for service aboard 
        vessels on domestic and international voyages, without 
        limitation;
            ``(B) a valid transportation worker identification 
        credential; and
            ``(C) a Coast Guard medical certificate;''; and
        (4) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
        ``(4) apply for, and accept if tendered, an appointment as a 
    commissioned officer in the Navy Reserve (including the Strategic 
    Sealift Officer Program, Navy Reserve), the Coast Guard Reserve, or 
    any other reserve component of an armed force of the United States, 
    and, if tendered the appointment, to serve, meet the participation 
    requirements, and maintain active status in good standing, as 
    determined by the program manager of the appropriate military 
    service, for at least 8 years after the date of commissioning;''.
SEC. 3507. STUDENT INCENTIVE PAYMENT AGREEMENTS.
    Section 51509 of title 46, United States Code, is amended--
        (1) in subsection (b)--
            (A) by inserting ``(3) Authorized uses.--'' before the last 
        sentence and indenting accordingly;
            (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (3), by striking 
        ``Payments'' and inserting ``(1) In general.--Except as 
        provided in paragraph (2), payments'' and indenting 
        accordingly; and
            (C) by inserting after paragraph (1), the following:
        ``(2) Exception.--The Secretary may modify the payments made to 
    an individual under paragraph (1), but the total amount of payments 
    to that individual may not exceed $32,000.'';
        (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``Merchant Marine Reserve'' 
    and inserting ``Strategic Sealift Officer Program'';
        (3) in subsection (d)--
            (A) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
        ``(2) obtain a merchant mariner license, without limitation as 
    to tonnage or horsepower, from the Coast Guard as an officer in the 
    merchant marine of the United States, accompanied by the 
    appropriate national and international endorsements and 
    certification required by the Coast Guard for service aboard 
    vessels on domestic and international voyages, without limitation, 
    within three months of completion of the course of instruction at 
    the academy the individual is attending;'';
            (B) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
        ``(3) for at least 6 years after graduation from the academy, 
    maintain--
            ``(A) a valid merchant mariner license, unlimited as to 
        horsepower or tonnage, issued by the Coast Guard as an officer 
        in the merchant marine of the United States, accompanied by the 
        appropriate national and international endorsements and 
        certifications required by the Coast Guard for service aboard 
        vessels on domestic and international voyages, without 
        limitation;
            ``(B) a valid transportation worker identification 
        credential; and
            ``(C) a Coast Guard medical certificate;''; and
            (C) by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows:
        ``(4) apply for, and accept, if tendered, an appointment as a 
    commissioned officer in the Navy Reserve (including the Strategic 
    Sealift Officer Program, Navy Reserve), the Coast Guard Reserve, or 
    any other reserve component of an armed force of the United States, 
    and, if tendered the appointment, to serve and meet the 
    participation requirements and to maintain active status in good 
    standing, as determined by the program manager of the appropriate 
    military service, for at least 8 years after the date of 
    commissioning;'';
        (4) by amending subsection (e)(1) to read as follows:
        ``(1) Active duty.--
            ``(A) In general.--The Secretary of Defense may order an 
        individual to serve on active duty in the armed forces of the 
        United States for a period of not more than 2 years if--
                ``(i) the individual has attended an academy under this 
            section for more than 2 academic years, but less than 3 
            academic years;
                ``(ii) the individual has accepted the payments 
            described in subsection (b) in an amount totaling at least 
            $8,000; and
                ``(iii) the Secretary of Transportation has determined 
            that the individual has failed to fulfill the part of the 
            agreement described in subsection (d)(1).
            ``(B) 3 or more years.--The Secretary of Defense may order 
        an individual to serve on active duty in the armed forces of 
        the United States for a period of not more than 3 years if--
                ``(i) the individual has attended an academy under this 
            section for 3 or more academic years;
                ``(ii) the individual has accepted the payments 
            described in subsection (b) in an amount totaling at least 
            $16,000; and
                ``(iii) the Secretary of Transportation has determined 
            that the individual has failed to fulfill the part of the 
            agreement described in subsection (d)(1).
            ``(C) Hardship waiver.--In cases of hardship as determined 
        by the Secretary of Transportation, the Secretary of 
        Transportation may waive this paragraph in whole or in part.''; 
        and
        (5) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(h) Alternative Service.--
        ``(1) Service as commissioned officer.--An individual who, for 
    the 5-year period following graduation from an academy, serves as a 
    commissioned officer on active duty in an armed force of the United 
    States or as a commissioned officer of the National Oceanic and 
    Atmospheric Administration or the Public Health Service shall be 
    excused from the requirements of paragraphs (3) through (5) of 
    subsection (d).
        ``(2) Modification or waiver.--The Secretary may modify or 
    waive any of the terms and conditions set forth in subsection (d) 
    through the imposition of alternative service requirements.''.
SEC. 3508. SHORT SEA TRANSPORTATION DEFINED.
    Paragraph (1) of section 55605 of title 46, United States Code, is 
amended--
        (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``or'';
        (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and''; and
        (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(C) shipped in discrete units or packages that are 
        handled individually, palletized, or unitized for purposes of 
        transportation; or
            ``(D) freight vehicles carried aboard commuter ferry boats; 
        and''.

                       DIVISION D--FUNDING TABLES

Sec. 4001. Authorization of amounts in funding tables.
Sec. 4002. Clarification of applicability of undistributed reductions of 
          certain operation and maintenance funding among all operation 
          and maintenance funding.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

Sec. 4101. Procurement.
Sec. 4102. Procurement for overseas contingency operations.

         TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

Sec. 4201. Research, development, test, and evaluation.
Sec. 4202. Research, development, test, and evaluation for overseas 
          contingency operations.

                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

Sec. 4301. Operation and maintenance.
Sec. 4302. Operation and maintenance for overseas contingency 
          operations.
Sec. 4303. Operation and maintenance base requirements.

                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

Sec. 4401. Military personnel.
Sec. 4402. Military personnel for overseas contingency operations.

                     TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

Sec. 4501. Other authorizations.
Sec. 4502. Other authorizations for overseas contingency operations.

                    TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

Sec. 4601. Military construction.

      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

Sec. 4701. Department of Energy national security programs.

SEC. 4001. AUTHORIZATION OF AMOUNTS IN FUNDING TABLES.
    (a) In General.--Whenever a funding table in this division 
specifies a dollar amount authorized for a project, program, or 
activity, the obligation and expenditure of the specified dollar amount 
for the project, program, or activity is hereby authorized, subject to 
the availability of appropriations.
    (b) Merit-based Decisions.--A decision to commit, obligate, or 
expend funds with or to a specific entity on the basis of a dollar 
amount authorized pursuant to subsection (a) shall--
        (1) be based on merit-based selection procedures in accordance 
    with the requirements of sections 2304(k) and 2374 of title 10, 
    United States Code, or on competitive procedures; and
        (2) comply with other applicable provisions of law.
    (c) Relationship to Transfer and Programming Authority.--An amount 
specified in the funding tables in this division may be transferred or 
reprogrammed under a transfer or reprogramming authority provided by 
another provision of this Act or by other law. The transfer or 
reprogramming of an amount specified in such funding tables shall not 
count against a ceiling on such transfers or reprogrammings under 
section 1001 or section 1522 of this Act or any other provision of law, 
unless such transfer or reprogramming would move funds between 
appropriation accounts.
    (d) Applicability to Classified Annex.--This section applies to any 
classified annex that accompanies this Act.
    (e) Oral and Written Communications.--No oral or written 
communication concerning any amount specified in the funding tables in 
this division shall supersede the requirements of this section.
SEC. 4002. CLARIFICATION OF APPLICABILITY OF UNDISTRIBUTED REDUCTIONS 
OF CERTAIN OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FUNDING AMONG ALL OPERATION AND 
MAINTENANCE FUNDING.
    Any undistributed reduction in funding available for fiscal year 
2016 for the Department of Defense for operation and maintenance, as 
specified in the funding table in section 4301, that is attributable to 
savings in connection with foreign currency fluctuations or bulk fuel 
purchases, may be applied against any funds available for that fiscal 
year for the Department for operation and maintenance, regardless of 
whether available as specified in the funding table in section 4301 or 
available as specified in the funding table in section 4303.

                         TITLE XLI--PROCUREMENT

SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
            SEC. 4101. PROCUREMENT (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2016        Conference
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
002               UTILITY F/W AIRCRAFT.             879             879
004               MQ-1 UAV.............         260,436         277,436
                      Extended Range                            [17,000]
                      Modifications.
                  ROTARY
006               HELICOPTER, LIGHT             187,177         187,177
                   UTILITY (LUH).
007               AH-64 APACHE BLOCK          1,168,461       1,168,461
                   IIIA REMAN.
008                  ADVANCE                    209,930         209,930
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
011               UH-60 BLACKHAWK M           1,435,945       1,563,945
                   MODEL (MYP).
                      Additional 8                             [128,000]
                      rotorcraft for
                      Army National
                      Guard.
012                  ADVANCE                    127,079         127,079
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
013               UH-60 BLACK HAWK A             46,641          46,641
                   AND L MODELS.
014               CH-47 HELICOPTER.....       1,024,587       1,024,587
015                  ADVANCE                     99,344          99,344
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
016               MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)...          97,543          97,543
019               MULTI SENSOR ABN               95,725          95,725
                   RECON (MIP).
020               AH-64 MODS...........         116,153         116,153
021               CH-47 CARGO                    86,330          86,330
                   HELICOPTER MODS
                   (MYP).
022               GRCS SEMA MODS (MIP).           4,019           4,019
023               ARL SEMA MODS (MIP)..          16,302          16,302
024               EMARSS SEMA MODS               13,669          13,669
                   (MIP).
025               UTILITY/CARGO                  16,166          16,166
                   AIRPLANE MODS.
026               UTILITY HELICOPTER             13,793          13,793
                   MODS.
028               NETWORK AND MISSION           112,807         112,807
                   PLAN.
029               COMMS, NAV                     82,904          82,904
                   SURVEILLANCE.
030               GATM ROLLUP..........          33,890          33,890
031               RQ-7 UAV MODS........          81,444          81,444
                  GROUND SUPPORT
                   AVIONICS
032               AIRCRAFT                       56,215          56,215
                   SURVIVABILITY
                   EQUIPMENT.
033               SURVIVABILITY CM.....           8,917           8,917
034               CMWS.................          78,348         104,348
                      Apache                                    [26,000]
                      Survivability
                      Enhancements--Arm
                      y Unfunded
                      Requirement.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
035               AVIONICS SUPPORT                6,937           6,937
                   EQUIPMENT.
036               COMMON GROUND                  64,867          64,867
                   EQUIPMENT.
037               AIRCREW INTEGRATED             44,085          44,085
                   SYSTEMS.
038               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL..          94,545          94,545
039               INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES           1,207           1,207
040               LAUNCHER, 2.75 ROCKET           3,012           3,012
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT         5,689,357       5,860,357
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  SURFACE-TO-AIR
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
001               LOWER TIER AIR AND            115,075         115,075
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   (AMD).
002               MSE MISSILE..........         414,946         614,946
                      Army UPL for                             [200,000]
                      Patriot PAC 3 for
                      improved
                      ballistic missile.
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
003               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.          27,975          27,975
004                  ADVANCE                     27,738          27,738
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  ANTI-TANK/ASSAULT
                   MISSILE SYS
005               JAVELIN (AAWS-M)               77,163         168,163
                   SYSTEM SUMMARY.
                      Program increase                          [91,000]
                      to support
                      Unfunded
                      Requirements.
006               TOW 2 SYSTEM SUMMARY.          87,525          87,525
008               GUIDED MLRS ROCKET            251,060         251,060
                   (GMLRS).
009               MLRS REDUCED RANGE             17,428          17,428
                   PRACTICE ROCKETS
                   (RRPR).
                  MODIFICATIONS
011               PATRIOT MODS.........         241,883         241,883
012               ATACMS MODS..........          30,119          15,119
                      Early to need....                        [-15,000]
013               GMLRS MOD............          18,221          18,221
014               STINGER MODS.........           2,216           2,216
015               AVENGER MODS.........           6,171           6,171
016               ITAS/TOW MODS........          19,576          19,576
017               MLRS MODS............          35,970          35,970
018               HIMARS MODIFICATIONS.           3,148           3,148
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
019               SPARES AND REPAIR              33,778          33,778
                   PARTS.
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
020               AIR DEFENSE TARGETS..           3,717           3,717
021               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           1,544           1,544
                   (MISSILES).
022               PRODUCTION BASE                 4,704           4,704
                   SUPPORT.
                       TOTAL MISSILE          1,419,957       1,695,957
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               STRYKER VEHICLE......         181,245         181,245
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
002               STRYKER (MOD)........          74,085         388,085
                      Lethality                                [314,000]
                      Upgrades.
003               STRYKER UPGRADE......         305,743         305,743
005               BRADLEY PROGRAM (MOD)         225,042         225,042
006               HOWITZER, MED SP FT            60,079          60,079
                   155MM M109A6 (MOD).
007               PALADIN INTEGRATED            273,850         273,850
                   MANAGEMENT (PIM).
008               IMPROVED RECOVERY             123,629         195,629
                   VEHICLE (M88A2
                   HERCULES).
                      Additional                                [72,000]
                      Vehicles - Army
                      Unfunded
                      Requirement.
009               ASSAULT BRIDGE (MOD).           2,461           2,461
010               ASSAULT BREACHER                2,975           2,975
                   VEHICLE.
011               M88 FOV MODS.........          14,878          14,878
012               JOINT ASSAULT BRIDGE.          33,455          33,455
013               M1 ABRAMS TANK (MOD).         367,939         407,939
                      Program Increase.                         [40,000]
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
015               PRODUCTION BASE                 6,479           6,479
                   SUPPORT (TCV-WTCV).
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
016               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......           4,991           4,991
017               XM320 GRENADE                  26,294          26,294
                   LAUNCHER MODULE
                   (GLM).
018               PRECISION SNIPER                1,984          -1,984
                   RIFLE.
                      Army request -                            [-1,984]
                      schedule delay.
019               COMPACT SEMI-                   1,488          -1,488
                   AUTOMATIC SNIPER
                   SYSTEM.
                      Army request -                            [-1,488]
                      schedule delay.
020               CARBINE..............          34,460          34,460
021               COMMON REMOTELY                 8,367          14,750
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
                      Army requested                             [6,383]
                      adjustment.
022               HANDGUN..............           5,417          -5,417
                      Army request -                            [-5,417]
                      early to need and
                      schedule delay.
                  MOD OF WEAPONS AND
                   OTHER COMBAT VEH
023               MK-19 GRENADE MACHINE           2,777           2,777
                   GUN MODS.
024               M777 MODS............          10,070          10,070
025               M4 CARBINE MODS......          27,566          27,566
026               M2 50 CAL MACHINE GUN          44,004          44,004
                   MODS.
027               M249 SAW MACHINE GUN            1,190           1,190
                   MODS.
028               M240 MEDIUM MACHINE             1,424           1,424
                   GUN MODS.
029               SNIPER RIFLES                   2,431             980
                   MODIFICATIONS.
                      Army request -                            [-1,451]
                      schedule delay.
030               M119 MODIFICATIONS...          20,599          20,599
032               MORTAR MODIFICATION..           6,300           6,300
033               MODIFICATIONS LESS              3,737           3,737
                   THAN $5.0M (WOCV-
                   WTCV).
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
034               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M             391           2,848
                   (WOCV-WTCV).
                      Army requested                             [2,457]
                      adjustment.
035               PRODUCTION BASE                 9,027           9,027
                   SUPPORT (WOCV-WTCV).
036               INDUSTRIAL                        304             304
                   PREPAREDNESS.
037               SMALL ARMS EQUIPMENT            2,392           2,392
                   (SOLDIER ENH PROG).
                       TOTAL                  1,887,073       2,311,573
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
001               CTG, 5.56MM, ALL               43,489          43,489
                   TYPES.
002               CTG, 7.62MM, ALL               40,715          40,715
                   TYPES.
003               CTG, HANDGUN, ALL               7,753           6,801
                   TYPES.
                      Army request -                              [-952]
                      program reduction.
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL              24,728          24,728
                   TYPES.
005               CTG, 25MM, ALL TYPES.           8,305           8,305
006               CTG, 30MM, ALL TYPES.          34,330          34,330
007               CTG, 40MM, ALL TYPES.          79,972          69,972
                      Early to need....                        [-10,000]
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
008               60MM MORTAR, ALL               42,898          42,898
                   TYPES.
009               81MM MORTAR, ALL               43,500          43,500
                   TYPES.
010               120MM MORTAR, ALL              64,372          64,372
                   TYPES.
                  TANK AMMUNITION
011               CARTRIDGES, TANK,             105,541         105,541
                   105MM AND 120MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
012               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,          57,756          57,756
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
013               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,          77,995          77,995
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
014               PROJ 155MM EXTENDED            45,518          45,518
                   RANGE M982.
015               ARTILLERY                      78,024          78,024
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                  ROCKETS
016               SHOULDER LAUNCHED               7,500           7,500
                   MUNITIONS, ALL TYPES.
017               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL          33,653          33,653
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
018               CAD/PAD, ALL TYPES...           5,639           5,639
019               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           9,751           9,751
                   ALL TYPES.
020               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..          19,993          19,993
021               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           9,761           9,761
022               SIMULATORS, ALL TYPES           9,749           9,749
                  MISCELLANEOUS
023               AMMO COMPONENTS, ALL            3,521           3,521
                   TYPES.
024               NON-LETHAL                      1,700           1,700
                   AMMUNITION, ALL
                   TYPES.
025               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              6,181           6,181
                   MILLION (AMMO).
026               AMMUNITION PECULIAR            17,811          17,811
                   EQUIPMENT.
027               FIRST DESTINATION              14,695          14,695
                   TRANSPORTATION
                   (AMMO).
                  PRODUCTION BASE
                   SUPPORT
029               PROVISION OF                  221,703         221,703
                   INDUSTRIAL
                   FACILITIES.
030               CONVENTIONAL                  113,250         113,250
                   MUNITIONS
                   DEMILITARIZATION.
031               ARMS INITIATIVE......           3,575           3,575
                       TOTAL                  1,233,378       1,222,426
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
001               TACTICAL TRAILERS/             12,855          12,855
                   DOLLY SETS.
002               SEMITRAILERS,                      53              53
                   FLATBED:.
004               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL          308,336         308,336
                   VEHICLE.
005               FAMILY OF MEDIUM               90,040          90,040
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
006               FIRETRUCKS &                    8,444           8,444
                   ASSOCIATED
                   FIREFIGHTING EQUIP.
007               FAMILY OF HEAVY                27,549          27,549
                   TACTICAL VEHICLES
                   (FHTV).
008               PLS ESP..............         127,102         127,102
010               TACTICAL WHEELED               48,292          48,292
                   VEHICLE PROTECTION
                   KITS.
011               MODIFICATION OF IN            130,993         130,993
                   SVC EQUIP.
012               MINE-RESISTANT AMBUSH-         19,146          19,146
                   PROTECTED (MRAP)
                   MODS.
                  NON-TACTICAL VEHICLES
014               PASSENGER CARRYING              1,248           1,248
                   VEHICLES.
015               NONTACTICAL VEHICLES,           9,614           9,614
                   OTHER.
                  COMM--JOINT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
016               WIN-T--GROUND FORCES          783,116         643,370
                   TACTICAL NETWORK.
                      Unobligated                             [-139,746]
                      balances.
017               SIGNAL MODERNIZATION           49,898          49,898
                   PROGRAM.
018               JOINT INCIDENT SITE             4,062           4,062
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   CAPABILITY.
019               JCSE EQUIPMENT                  5,008           5,008
                   (USREDCOM).
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
020               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE            196,306         196,306
                   WIDEBAND SATCOM
                   SYSTEMS.
021               TRANSPORTABLE                  44,998          34,998
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                      Program Reduction                        [-10,000]
022               SHF TERM.............           7,629           7,629
023               NAVSTAR GLOBAL                 14,027          14,027
                   POSITIONING SYSTEM
                   (SPACE).
024               SMART-T (SPACE)......          13,453          13,453
025               GLOBAL BRDCST SVC--             6,265           6,265
                   GBS.
026               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             1,042           1,042
                   (TAC SAT).
027               ENROUTE MISSION                 7,116           7,116
                   COMMAND (EMC).
                  COMM--C3 SYSTEM
028               ARMY GLOBAL CMD &              10,137          10,137
                   CONTROL SYS (AGCCS).
                  COMM--COMBAT
                   COMMUNICATIONS
029               JOINT TACTICAL RADIO           64,640          54,640
                   SYSTEM.
                      Unobligated                              [-10,000]
                      balances.
030               MID-TIER NETWORKING            27,762          22,762
                   VEHICULAR RADIO
                   (MNVR).
                      Excess Program                            [-5,000]
                      Management Costs.
031               RADIO TERMINAL SET,             9,422           9,422
                   MIDS LVT(2).
032               AMC CRITICAL ITEMS--           26,020          26,020
                   OPA2.
033               TRACTOR DESK.........           4,073           4,073
034               SPIDER APLA REMOTE              1,403           1,403
                   CONTROL UNIT.
035               SPIDER FAMILY OF                9,199           9,199
                   NETWORKED MUNITIONS
                   INCR.
036               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT               349             349
                   PROGRAM COMM/
                   ELECTRONICS.
037               TACTICAL                       25,597          25,597
                   COMMUNICATIONS AND
                   PROTECTIVE SYSTEM.
038               UNIFIED COMMAND SUITE          21,854          21,854
040               FAMILY OF MED COMM             24,388          24,388
                   FOR COMBAT CASUALTY
                   CARE.
                  COMM--INTELLIGENCE
                   COMM
042               CI AUTOMATION                   1,349           1,349
                   ARCHITECTURE.
043               ARMY CA/MISO GPF                3,695           3,695
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  INFORMATION SECURITY
045               INFORMATION SYSTEM             19,920          19,920
                   SECURITY PROGRAM-
                   ISSP.
046               COMMUNICATIONS                 72,257          72,257
                   SECURITY (COMSEC).
                  COMM--LONG HAUL
                   COMMUNICATIONS
047               BASE SUPPORT                   16,082          16,082
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
048               INFORMATION SYSTEMS..          86,037          86,037
050               EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT            8,550           8,550
                   MODERNIZATION
                   PROGRAM.
051               INSTALLATION INFO              73,496          73,496
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
054               JTT/CIBS-M...........             881             881
055               PROPHET GROUND.......          63,650          48,650
                      Program reduction                        [-15,000]
057               DCGS-A (MIP).........         260,268         250,268
                      Program reduction                        [-10,000]
058               JOINT TACTICAL GROUND           3,906           3,906
                   STATION (JTAGS).
059               TROJAN (MIP).........          13,929          13,929
060               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP             3,978           3,978
                   (INTEL SPT) (MIP).
061               CI HUMINT AUTO                  7,542           7,542
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
062               CLOSE ACCESS TARGET             8,010           8,010
                   RECONNAISSANCE
                   (CATR).
063               MACHINE FOREIGN                 8,125           8,125
                   LANGUAGE TRANSLATION
                   SYSTEM-M.
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
064               LIGHTWEIGHT COUNTER            63,472          63,472
                   MORTAR RADAR.
065               EW PLANNING &                   2,556           2,556
                   MANAGEMENT TOOLS
                   (EWPMT).
066               AIR VIGILANCE (AV)...           8,224           8,224
067               CREW.................           2,960           2,960
068               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT            1,722           1,722
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   CAPABILITIE.
069               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/              447             447
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
070               CI MODERNIZATION.....             228             228
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
071               SENTINEL MODS........          43,285          43,285
072               NIGHT VISION DEVICES.         124,216         124,216
074               SMALL TACTICAL                 23,216          23,216
                   OPTICAL RIFLE
                   MOUNTED MLRF.
076               INDIRECT FIRE                  60,679          60,679
                   PROTECTION FAMILY OF
                   SYSTEMS.
077               FAMILY OF WEAPON               53,453          53,453
                   SIGHTS (FWS).
078               ARTILLERY ACCURACY              3,338           3,338
                   EQUIP.
079               PROFILER.............           4,057           4,057
081               JOINT BATTLE COMMAND--        133,339         133,339
                   PLATFORM (JBC-P).
082               JOINT EFFECTS                  47,212          47,212
                   TARGETING SYSTEM
                   (JETS).
083               MOD OF IN-SVC EQUIP            22,314          22,314
                   (LLDR).
084               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:           12,131          12,131
                   LHMBC XM32.
085               MORTAR FIRE CONTROL            10,075          10,075
                   SYSTEM.
086               COUNTERFIRE RADARS...         217,379         167,379
                      Unobligated                              [-50,000]
                      balances.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
087               FIRE SUPPORT C2                 1,190           1,190
                   FAMILY.
090               AIR & MSL DEFENSE              28,176          28,176
                   PLANNING & CONTROL
                   SYS.
091               IAMD BATTLE COMMAND            20,917          15,917
                   SYSTEM.
                      Program Reduction                         [-5,000]
092               LIFE CYCLE SOFTWARE             5,850           5,850
                   SUPPORT (LCSS).
093               NETWORK MANAGEMENT             12,738          12,738
                   INITIALIZATION AND
                   SERVICE.
094               MANEUVER CONTROL              145,405         145,405
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
095               GLOBAL COMBAT SUPPORT         162,654         146,654
                   SYSTEM-ARMY (GCSS-A).
                      Program growth...                        [-16,000]
096               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL            4,446           4,446
                   AND PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                   (IPP.
098               RECONNAISSANCE AND             16,218          16,218
                   SURVEYING INSTRUMENT
                   SET.
099               MOD OF IN-SVC                   1,138           1,138
                   EQUIPMENT (ENFIRE).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
100               ARMY TRAINING                  12,089          12,089
                   MODERNIZATION.
101               AUTOMATED DATA                105,775         105,775
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
102               GENERAL FUND                   18,995          18,995
                   ENTERPRISE BUSINESS
                   SYSTEMS FAM.
103               HIGH PERF COMPUTING            62,319          62,319
                   MOD PGM (HPCMP).
104               RESERVE COMPONENT              17,894          17,894
                   AUTOMATION SYS
                   (RCAS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--AUDIO
                   VISUAL SYS (A/V)
106               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M             4,242           4,242
                   (SURVEYING
                   EQUIPMENT).
                  ELECT EQUIP--SUPPORT
107               PRODUCTION BASE                   425             425
                   SUPPORT (C-E).
108               BCT EMERGING                    7,438           7,438
                   TECHNOLOGIES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
108A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           6,467           6,467
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
109               PROTECTIVE SYSTEMS...             248             248
110               FAMILY OF NON-LETHAL            1,487           1,487
                   EQUIPMENT (FNLE).
112               CBRN DEFENSE.........          26,302          26,302
                  BRIDGING EQUIPMENT
113               TACTICAL BRIDGING....           9,822           9,822
114               TACTICAL BRIDGE,               21,516          21,516
                   FLOAT-RIBBON.
115               BRIDGE SUPPLEMENTAL             4,959           4,959
                   SET.
116               COMMON BRIDGE                  52,546          52,546
                   TRANSPORTER (CBT)
                   RECAP.
                  ENGINEER (NON-
                   CONSTRUCTION)
                   EQUIPMENT
117               GRND STANDOFF MINE             58,682          58,682
                   DETECTN SYSM
                   (GSTAMIDS).
118               HUSKY MOUNTED                  13,565          13,565
                   DETECTION SYSTEM
                   (HMDS).
119               ROBOTIC COMBAT                  2,136           2,136
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (RCSS).
120               EOD ROBOTICS SYSTEMS            6,960           6,960
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
121               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             17,424          17,424
                   DISPOSAL EQPMT (EOD
                   EQPMT).
122               REMOTE DEMOLITION               8,284           8,284
                   SYSTEMS.
123               < $5M, COUNTERMINE              5,459           5,459
                   EQUIPMENT.
124               FAMILY OF BOATS AND             8,429           8,429
                   MOTORS.
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
125               HEATERS AND ECU'S....          18,876          18,876
127               SOLDIER ENHANCEMENT..           2,287           2,287
128               PERSONNEL RECOVERY              7,733           7,733
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM
                   (PRSS).
129               GROUND SOLDIER SYSTEM          49,798          49,798
130               MOBILE SOLDIER POWER.          43,639          43,639
132               FIELD FEEDING                  13,118          13,118
                   EQUIPMENT.
133               CARGO AERIAL DEL &             28,278          28,278
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
135               FAMILY OF ENGR COMBAT          34,544          34,544
                   AND CONSTRUCTION
                   SETS.
136               ITEMS LESS THAN $5M               595             595
                   (ENG SPT).
                  PETROLEUM EQUIPMENT
137               QUALITY SURVEILLANCE            5,368           5,368
                   EQUIPMENT.
138               DISTRIBUTION SYSTEMS,          35,381          35,381
                   PETROLEUM & WATER.
                  MEDICAL EQUIPMENT
139               COMBAT SUPPORT                 73,828          73,828
                   MEDICAL.
                  MAINTENANCE EQUIPMENT
140               MOBILE MAINTENANCE             25,270          25,270
                   EQUIPMENT SYSTEMS.
141               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           2,760           2,760
                   (MAINT EQ).
                  CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT
142               GRADER, ROAD MTZD,              5,903           5,903
                   HVY, 6X4 (CCE).
143               SCRAPERS, EARTHMOVING          26,125          26,125
146               TRACTOR, FULL TRACKED          27,156          27,156
147               ALL TERRAIN CRANES...          16,750          16,750
148               PLANT, ASPHALT MIXING             984             984
149               HIGH MOBILITY                   2,656           2,656
                   ENGINEER EXCAVATOR
                   (HMEE).
150               ENHANCED RAPID                  2,531           2,531
                   AIRFIELD
                   CONSTRUCTION CAPAP.
151               FAMILY OF DIVER                   446             446
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
152               CONST EQUIP ESP......          19,640          19,640
153               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           5,087           5,087
                   (CONST EQUIP).
                  RAIL FLOAT
                   CONTAINERIZATION
                   EQUIPMENT
154               ARMY WATERCRAFT ESP..          39,772          39,772
155               ITEMS LESS THAN $5.0M           5,835           5,835
                   (FLOAT/RAIL).
                  GENERATORS
156               GENERATORS AND                166,356         166,356
                   ASSOCIATED EQUIP.
157               TACTICAL ELECTRIC              11,505          11,505
                   POWER
                   RECAPITALIZATION.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
159               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..          17,496          17,496
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
160               COMBAT TRAINING                74,916          74,916
                   CENTERS SUPPORT.
161               TRAINING DEVICES,             303,236         278,236
                   NONSYSTEM.
                      Program reduction                        [-25,000]
162               CLOSE COMBAT TACTICAL          45,210          45,210
                   TRAINER.
163               AVIATION COMBINED              30,068          30,068
                   ARMS TACTICAL
                   TRAINER.
164               GAMING TECHNOLOGY IN            9,793           9,793
                   SUPPORT OF ARMY
                   TRAINING.
                  TEST MEASURE AND DIG
                   EQUIPMENT (TMD)
165               CALIBRATION SETS                4,650           4,650
                   EQUIPMENT.
166               INTEGRATED FAMILY OF           34,487          34,487
                   TEST EQUIPMENT
                   (IFTE).
167               TEST EQUIPMENT                 11,083          11,083
                   MODERNIZATION
                   (TEMOD).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
169               RAPID EQUIPPING                17,937          17,937
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
170               PHYSICAL SECURITY              52,040          52,040
                   SYSTEMS (OPA3).
171               BASE LEVEL COMMON               1,568           1,568
                   EQUIPMENT.
172               MODIFICATION OF IN-            64,219          64,219
                   SVC EQUIPMENT (OPA-
                   3).
173               PRODUCTION BASE                 1,525           1,525
                   SUPPORT (OTH).
174               SPECIAL EQUIPMENT FOR           3,268           3,268
                   USER TESTING.
176               TRACTOR YARD.........           7,191           7,191
                  OPA2
177               INITIAL SPARES--C&E..          48,511          48,511
                       TOTAL OTHER            5,899,028       5,613,282
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  COMBAT AIRCRAFT
002               F/A-18E/F (FIGHTER)                           978,750
                   HORNET.
                      Additional 12                            [978,750]
                      Aircraft--Navy
                      Unfunded
                      Requirement.
003               JOINT STRIKE FIGHTER          897,542         873,042
                   CV.
                      Anticipated                               [-7,700]
                      contract savings.
                      Cost growth for                          [-16,800]
                      support equipment.
004                  ADVANCE                     48,630          48,630
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
005               JSF STOVL............       1,483,414       2,329,414
                      Additional 6                             [846,000]
                      Aircraft--Marine
                      Corps Unfunded
                      Requirement.
006                  ADVANCE                    203,060         203,060
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
007                  ADVANCE                     41,300          41,300
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               V-22 (MEDIUM LIFT)...       1,436,355       1,421,355
                      Support funding                          [-15,000]
                      carryover.
009                  ADVANCE                     43,853          43,853
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
010               H-1 UPGRADES (UH-1Y/          800,057         800,057
                   AH-1Z).
011                  ADVANCE                     56,168          56,168
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
012               MH-60S (MYP).........          28,232          28,232
014               MH-60R (MYP).........         969,991         964,991
                      Poor                                      [-5,000]
                      justification of
                      production line
                      shutdown funds.
016               P-8A POSEIDON........       3,008,928       3,008,928
017                  ADVANCE                    269,568         250,568
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      Advance                                  [-19,000]
                      procurement cost
                      growth.
018               E-2D ADV HAWKEYE.....         857,654         857,654
019                  ADVANCE                    195,336         195,336
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
020               JPATS................           8,914           8,914
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
021               KC-130J..............         192,214         192,214
022                  ADVANCE                     24,451          24,451
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
023               MQ-4 TRITON..........         494,259         559,259
                      Additional Air                            [65,000]
                      Vehicle.
024                  ADVANCE                     54,577          54,577
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
025               MQ-8 UAV.............         120,020         156,020
                      MQ-8 UAV-                                 [36,000]
                      Additional three
                      air vehicles.
026               STUASL0 UAV..........           3,450           3,450
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
028               EA-6 SERIES..........           9,799           9,799
029               AEA SYSTEMS..........          23,151          38,151
                      Additional Low                            [15,000]
                      Band Transmitter
                      Modifications.
030               AV-8 SERIES..........          41,890          45,190
                      AV-8B Link 16                              [3,300]
                      upgrades,
                      unfunded
                      requirement.
031               ADVERSARY............           5,816           5,816
032               F-18 SERIES..........         978,756         968,456
                      Unjustified                              [-10,300]
                      request.
034               H-53 SERIES..........          46,887          46,887
035               SH-60 SERIES.........         107,728         107,728
036               H-1 SERIES...........          42,315          40,565
                      Unjustified                               [-1,750]
                      growth--installat
                      ion funding.
037               EP-3 SERIES..........          41,784          41,784
038               P-3 SERIES...........           3,067           3,067
039               E-2 SERIES...........          20,741          20,741
040               TRAINER A/C SERIES...          27,980          27,980
041               C-2A.................           8,157           8,157
042               C-130 SERIES.........          70,335          69,041
                      Unjustified                               [-1,294]
                      growth--installat
                      ion funding.
043               FEWSG................             633             633
044               CARGO/TRANSPORT A/C             8,916           8,916
                   SERIES.
045               E-6 SERIES...........         185,253         185,253
046               EXECUTIVE HELICOPTERS          76,138          72,338
                   SERIES.
                      Unjustified                               [-3,800]
                      growth--installat
                      ion funding.
047               SPECIAL PROJECT                23,702          23,702
                   AIRCRAFT.
048               T-45 SERIES..........         105,439         105,439
049               POWER PLANT CHANGES..           9,917           9,917
050               JPATS SERIES.........          13,537          13,537
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.         131,732         131,732
052               COMMON AVIONICS               202,745         202,745
                   CHANGES.
053               COMMON DEFENSIVE                3,062           3,062
                   WEAPON SYSTEM.
054               ID SYSTEMS...........          48,206          48,206
055               P-8 SERIES...........          28,492          28,492
056               MAGTF EW FOR AVIATION           7,680           7,680
057               MQ-8 SERIES..........          22,464          22,464
058               RQ-7 SERIES..........           3,773           3,773
059               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR              121,208         144,208
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
                      MV-22 Ballistic                            [8,000]
                      Protection.
                      MV-22 integrated                          [15,000]
                      aircraft
                      survivability--MC
                      UFR.
060               F-35 STOVL SERIES....         256,106         256,106
061               F-35 CV SERIES.......          68,527          68,527
062               QRC..................           6,885           6,885
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
063               SPARES AND REPAIR           1,563,515       1,478,515
                   PARTS.
                      Program decrease.                        [-85,000]
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
064               COMMON GROUND                 450,959         450,959
                   EQUIPMENT.
065               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL            24,010          24,010
                   FACILITIES.
066               WAR CONSUMABLES......          42,012          42,012
067               OTHER PRODUCTION                2,455           2,455
                   CHARGES.
068               SPECIAL SUPPORT                50,859          50,859
                   EQUIPMENT.
069               FIRST DESTINATION               1,801           1,801
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        16,126,405      17,927,811
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
001               TRIDENT II MODS......       1,099,064       1,099,064
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
002               MISSILE INDUSTRIAL              7,748           7,748
                   FACILITIES.
                  STRATEGIC MISSILES
003               TOMAHAWK.............         184,814         214,814
                      Minimum                                   [30,000]
                      Sustaining Rate
                      Increase.
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
004               AMRAAM...............         192,873         207,873
                      Additional                                [15,000]
                      captive air
                      training missiles.
005               SIDEWINDER...........          96,427          96,427
006               JSOW.................          21,419          21,419
007               STANDARD MISSILE.....         435,352         435,352
008               RAM..................          80,826          80,826
011               STAND OFF PRECISION             4,265           4,265
                   GUIDED MUNITIONS
                   (SOPGM).
012               AERIAL TARGETS.......          40,792          40,792
013               OTHER MISSILE SUPPORT           3,335           3,335
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   MISSILES
014               ESSM.................          44,440          44,440
015                  ADVANCE                     54,462          54,462
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
016               HARM MODS............         122,298         122,298
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT &
                   FACILITIES
017               WEAPONS INDUSTRIAL              2,397           2,397
                   FACILITIES.
018               FLEET SATELLITE COMM           39,932          39,932
                   FOLLOW-ON.
                  ORDNANCE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
019               ORDNANCE SUPPORT               57,641          61,309
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Classified                                 [3,668]
                      Program.
                  TORPEDOES AND RELATED
                   EQUIP
020               SSTD.................           7,380           7,380
021               MK-48 TORPEDO........          65,611          65,611
022               ASW TARGETS..........           6,912           6,912
                  MOD OF TORPEDOES AND
                   RELATED EQUIP
023               MK-54 TORPEDO MODS...         113,219         113,219
024               MK-48 TORPEDO ADCAP            63,317          63,317
                   MODS.
025               QUICKSTRIKE MINE.....          13,254          13,254
                  SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
026               TORPEDO SUPPORT                67,701          67,701
                   EQUIPMENT.
027               ASW RANGE SUPPORT....           3,699           3,699
                  DESTINATION
                   TRANSPORTATION
028               FIRST DESTINATION               3,342           3,342
                   TRANSPORTATION.
                  GUNS AND GUN MOUNTS
029               SMALL ARMS AND                 11,937          11,937
                   WEAPONS.
                  MODIFICATION OF GUNS
                   AND GUN MOUNTS
030               CIWS MODS............          53,147          53,147
031               COAST GUARD WEAPONS..          19,022          19,022
032               GUN MOUNT MODS.......          67,980          67,980
033               AIRBORNE MINE                  19,823          19,823
                   NEUTRALIZATION
                   SYSTEMS.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
035               SPARES AND REPAIR             149,725         149,725
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL WEAPONS          3,154,154       3,202,822
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         101,238         101,238
002               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          67,289          67,289
                   TYPES.
003               MACHINE GUN                    20,340          20,340
                   AMMUNITION.
004               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          40,365          40,365
005               CARTRIDGES & CART              49,377          49,377
                   ACTUATED DEVICES.
006               AIR EXPENDABLE                 59,651          59,651
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
007               JATOS................           2,806           2,806
008               LRLAP 6" LONG RANGE            11,596          11,596
                   ATTACK PROJECTILE.
009               5 INCH/54 GUN                  35,994          35,994
                   AMMUNITION.
010               INTERMEDIATE CALIBER           36,715          36,715
                   GUN AMMUNITION.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                 45,483          45,483
                   AMMUNITION.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING           52,080          52,080
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                10,809          10,809
                   DEMOLITION.
014               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            4,469           4,469
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
015               SMALL ARMS AMMUNITION          46,848          46,848
016               LINEAR CHARGES, ALL               350             350
                   TYPES.
017               40 MM, ALL TYPES.....             500             500
018               60MM, ALL TYPES......           1,849           1,849
019               81MM, ALL TYPES......           1,000           1,000
020               120MM, ALL TYPES.....          13,867          13,867
022               GRENADES, ALL TYPES..           1,390           1,390
023               ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...          14,967          14,967
024               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.          45,219          45,219
026               FUZE, ALL TYPES......          29,335          29,335
027               NON LETHALS..........           3,868           3,868
028               AMMO MODERNIZATION...          15,117          15,117
029               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             11,219          11,219
                   MILLION.
                       TOTAL                    723,741         723,741
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  SHIPBUILDING &
                   CONVERSION, NAVY
                  OTHER WARSHIPS
001                  ADVANCE                  1,634,701       1,634,701
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
002                  ADVANCE                    874,658         874,658
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
003               VIRGINIA CLASS              3,346,370       3,346,370
                   SUBMARINE.
004                  ADVANCE                  1,993,740       1,993,740
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
005               CVN REFUELING                 678,274         678,274
                   OVERHAULS.
006                  ADVANCE                     14,951          14,951
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
007               DDG 1000.............         433,404         433,404
008               DDG-51...............       3,149,703       3,549,703
                      Incremental                              [400,000]
                      funding for one
                      DDG-51.
010               LITTORAL COMBAT SHIP.       1,356,991       1,356,991
                  AMPHIBIOUS SHIPS
012               LPD-17...............         550,000         550,000
013               AFLOAT FORWARD                                 97,000
                   STAGING BASE.
                      Accelerate                                [97,000]
                      shipbuilding
                      funding.
014A              LX(R) ADVANCE                                 250,000
                   PROCURMENT (CY).
                      LX(R)                                    [250,000]
                      Acceleration.
015               LHA REPLACEMENT               277,543         476,543
                   ADVANCE PROCUREMENT
                   (CY).
                      Accelerate LHA-8                         [199,000]
                      advanced
                      procurement.
016A              LCU Replacement......                          34,000
                      Accelerate LCU                            [34,000]
                      replacement.
                  AUXILIARIES, CRAFT
                   AND PRIOR YR PROGRAM
                   COST
017               TAO FLEET OILER......         674,190         674,190
019                  ADVANCE                    138,200         138,200
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
020               OUTFITTING...........         697,207         673,207
                      Program decrease.                        [-24,000]
021               SHIP TO SHORE                 255,630         255,630
                   CONNECTOR.
022               SERVICE CRAFT........          30,014          30,014
023               LCAC SLEP............          80,738          80,738
024               YP CRAFT MAINTENANCE/          21,838          21,838
                   ROH/SLEP.
025               COMPLETION OF PY              389,305         389,305
                   SHIPBUILDING
                   PROGRAMS.
025A              T-ATS(X) Fleet Tug...                          75,000
                      Accelerate T-                             [75,000]
                      ATS(X).
                       TOTAL                 16,597,457      17,628,457
                       SHIPBUILDING &
                       CONVERSION, NAVY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  SHIP PROPULSION
                   EQUIPMENT
001               LM-2500 GAS TURBINE..           4,881           4,881
002               ALLISON 501K GAS                5,814           5,814
                   TURBINE.
003               HYBRID ELECTRIC DRIVE          32,906          32,906
                   (HED).
                  GENERATORS
004               SURFACE COMBATANT              36,860          36,860
                   HM&E.
                  NAVIGATION EQUIPMENT
005               OTHER NAVIGATION               87,481          87,481
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  PERISCOPES
006               SUB PERISCOPES &               63,109          63,109
                   IMAGING EQUIP.
                  OTHER SHIPBOARD
                   EQUIPMENT
007               DDG MOD..............         364,157         424,157
                      Additional DDG                            [60,000]
                      Modification-
                      Unfunded
                      Requirement.
008               FIREFIGHTING                   16,089          16,089
                   EQUIPMENT.
009               COMMAND AND CONTROL             2,255           2,255
                   SWITCHBOARD.
010               LHA/LHD MIDLIFE......          28,571          28,571
011               LCC 19/20 EXTENDED             12,313          12,313
                   SERVICE LIFE PROGRAM.
012               POLLUTION CONTROL              16,609          16,609
                   EQUIPMENT.
013               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              10,498          10,498
                   EQUIPMENT.
014               VIRGINIA CLASS                 35,747          35,747
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
015               LCS CLASS SUPPORT              48,399          48,399
                   EQUIPMENT.
016               SUBMARINE BATTERIES..          23,072          23,072
017               LPD CLASS SUPPORT              55,283          55,283
                   EQUIPMENT.
018               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             18,563          18,563
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
019               DSSP EQUIPMENT.......           7,376           7,376
021               LCAC.................          20,965          20,965
022               UNDERWATER EOD                 51,652          51,652
                   PROGRAMS.
023               ITEMS LESS THAN $5            102,498         102,498
                   MILLION.
024               CHEMICAL WARFARE                3,027           3,027
                   DETECTORS.
025               SUBMARINE LIFE                  7,399           7,399
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
                  REACTOR PLANT
                   EQUIPMENT
027               REACTOR COMPONENTS...         296,095         296,095
                  OCEAN ENGINEERING
028               DIVING AND SALVAGE             15,982          15,982
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SMALL BOATS
029               STANDARD BOATS.......          29,982          29,982
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
030               OTHER SHIPS TRAINING           66,538          66,538
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  PRODUCTION FACILITIES
                   EQUIPMENT
031               OPERATING FORCES IPE.          71,138          71,138
                  OTHER SHIP SUPPORT
032               NUCLEAR ALTERATIONS..         132,625         132,625
033               LCS COMMON MISSION             23,500          23,500
                   MODULES EQUIPMENT.
034               LCS MCM MISSION                85,151          85,151
                   MODULES.
035               LCS SUW MISSION                35,228          35,228
                   MODULES.
036               REMOTE MINEHUNTING             87,627          53,077
                   SYSTEM (RMS).
                      Procurement in                           [-34,550]
                      excess of need
                      ahead of
                      satisfactory
                      testing.
                  LOGISTIC SUPPORT
037               LSD MIDLIFE..........           2,774           2,774
                  SHIP SONARS
038               SPQ-9B RADAR.........          20,551          20,551
039               AN/SQQ-89 SURF ASW            103,241         103,241
                   COMBAT SYSTEM.
040               SSN ACOUSTICS........         214,835         234,835
                      Submarine Towed                           [20,000]
                      Array-Unfunded
                      Requirement.
041               UNDERSEA WARFARE                7,331           7,331
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
042               SONAR SWITCHES AND             11,781          11,781
                   TRANSDUCERS.
                  ASW ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
044               SUBMARINE ACOUSTIC             21,119          21,119
                   WARFARE SYSTEM.
045               SSTD.................           8,396           8,396
046               FIXED SURVEILLANCE            146,968         146,968
                   SYSTEM.
047               SURTASS..............          12,953          12,953
048               MARITIME PATROL AND            13,725          13,725
                   RECONNSAISANCE FORCE.
                  ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   EQUIPMENT
049               AN/SLQ-32............         324,726         324,726
                  RECONNAISSANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
050               SHIPBOARD IW EXPLOIT.         148,221         148,221
051               AUTOMATED                         152             152
                   IDENTIFICATION
                   SYSTEM (AIS).
                  SUBMARINE
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   EQUIPMENT
052               SUBMARINE SUPPORT              79,954          79,954
                   EQUIPMENT PROG.
                  OTHER SHIP ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
053               COOPERATIVE                    25,695          25,695
                   ENGAGEMENT
                   CAPABILITY.
054               TRUSTED INFORMATION               284             284
                   SYSTEM (TIS).
055               NAVAL TACTICAL                 14,416          14,416
                   COMMAND SUPPORT
                   SYSTEM (NTCSS).
056               ATDLS................          23,069          23,069
057               NAVY COMMAND AND                4,054           4,054
                   CONTROL SYSTEM
                   (NCCS).
058               MINESWEEPING SYSTEM            21,014          21,014
                   REPLACEMENT.
059               SHALLOW WATER MCM....          18,077          18,077
060               NAVSTAR GPS RECEIVERS          12,359          12,359
                   (SPACE).
061               AMERICAN FORCES RADIO           4,240           4,240
                   AND TV SERVICE.
062               STRATEGIC PLATFORM             17,440          17,440
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  TRAINING EQUIPMENT
063               OTHER TRAINING                 41,314          41,314
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  AVIATION ELECTRONIC
                   EQUIPMENT
064               MATCALS..............          10,011          10,011
065               SHIPBOARD AIR TRAFFIC           9,346           9,346
                   CONTROL.
066               AUTOMATIC CARRIER              21,281          21,281
                   LANDING SYSTEM.
067               NATIONAL AIR SPACE             25,621          25,621
                   SYSTEM.
068               FLEET AIR TRAFFIC               8,249           8,249
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
069               LANDING SYSTEMS......          14,715          14,715
070               ID SYSTEMS...........          29,676          29,676
071               NAVAL MISSION                  13,737          13,737
                   PLANNING SYSTEMS.
                  OTHER SHORE
                   ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT
072               DEPLOYABLE JOINT                1,314           1,314
                   COMMAND & CONTROL.
074               TACTICAL/MOBILE C4I            13,600          13,600
                   SYSTEMS.
075               DCGS-N...............          31,809          31,809
076               CANES................         278,991         278,991
077               RADIAC...............           8,294           8,294
078               CANES-INTELL.........          28,695          28,695
079               GPETE................           6,962           6,962
080               MASF.................             290             290
081               INTEG COMBAT SYSTEM            14,419          14,419
                   TEST FACILITY.
082               EMI CONTROL                     4,175           4,175
                   INSTRUMENTATION.
083               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             44,176          44,176
                   MILLION.
                  SHIPBOARD
                   COMMUNICATIONS
084               SHIPBOARD TACTICAL              8,722           8,722
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
085               SHIP COMMUNICATIONS           108,477         108,477
                   AUTOMATION.
086               COMMUNICATIONS ITEMS           16,613          16,613
                   UNDER $5M.
                  SUBMARINE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
087               SUBMARINE BROADCAST            20,691          20,691
                   SUPPORT.
088               SUBMARINE                      60,945          60,945
                   COMMUNICATION
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
089               SATELLITE                      30,892          30,892
                   COMMUNICATIONS
                   SYSTEMS.
090               NAVY MULTIBAND                118,113         118,113
                   TERMINAL (NMT).
                  SHORE COMMUNICATIONS
091               JCS COMMUNICATIONS              4,591           4,591
                   EQUIPMENT.
092               ELECTRICAL POWER                1,403           1,403
                   SYSTEMS.
                  CRYPTOGRAPHIC
                   EQUIPMENT
093               INFO SYSTEMS SECURITY         135,687         135,687
                   PROGRAM (ISSP).
094               MIO INTEL                         970             970
                   EXPLOITATION TEAM.
                  CRYPTOLOGIC EQUIPMENT
095               CRYPTOLOGIC                    11,433          11,433
                   COMMUNICATIONS EQUIP.
                  OTHER ELECTRONIC
                   SUPPORT
096               COAST GUARD EQUIPMENT           2,529           2,529
                  SONOBUOYS
097               SONOBUOYS--ALL TYPES.         168,763         168,763
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
098               WEAPONS RANGE SUPPORT          46,979          46,979
                   EQUIPMENT.
100               AIRCRAFT SUPPORT              123,884         123,884
                   EQUIPMENT.
103               METEOROLOGICAL                 15,090          15,090
                   EQUIPMENT.
104               DCRS/DPL.............             638             638
106               AIRBORNE MINE                  14,098          14,098
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
111               AVIATION SUPPORT               49,773          49,773
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP GUN SYSTEM
                   EQUIPMENT
112               SHIP GUN SYSTEMS                5,300           5,300
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  SHIP MISSILE SYSTEMS
                   EQUIPMENT
115               SHIP MISSILE SUPPORT          298,738         298,738
                   EQUIPMENT.
120               TOMAHAWK SUPPORT               71,245          71,245
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  FBM SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
123               STRATEGIC MISSILE             240,694         240,694
                   SYSTEMS EQUIP.
                  ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
124               SSN COMBAT CONTROL             96,040          96,040
                   SYSTEMS.
125               ASW SUPPORT EQUIPMENT          30,189          30,189
                  OTHER ORDNANCE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
129               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE             22,623          22,623
                   DISPOSAL EQUIP.
130               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              9,906           9,906
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER EXPENDABLE
                   ORDNANCE
134               TRAINING DEVICE MODS.          99,707          99,707
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
135               PASSENGER CARRYING              2,252           2,252
                   VEHICLES.
136               GENERAL PURPOSE                 2,191           2,191
                   TRUCKS.
137               CONSTRUCTION &                  2,164           2,164
                   MAINTENANCE EQUIP.
138               FIRE FIGHTING                  14,705          14,705
                   EQUIPMENT.
139               TACTICAL VEHICLES....           2,497           2,497
140               AMPHIBIOUS EQUIPMENT.          12,517          12,517
141               POLLUTION CONTROL               3,018           3,018
                   EQUIPMENT.
142               ITEMS UNDER $5                 14,403          14,403
                   MILLION.
143               PHYSICAL SECURITY               1,186           1,186
                   VEHICLES.
                  SUPPLY SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
144               MATERIALS HANDLING             18,805          18,805
                   EQUIPMENT.
145               OTHER SUPPLY SUPPORT           10,469          10,469
                   EQUIPMENT.
146               FIRST DESTINATION               5,720           5,720
                   TRANSPORTATION.
147               SPECIAL PURPOSE               211,714         211,714
                   SUPPLY SYSTEMS.
                  TRAINING DEVICES
148               TRAINING SUPPORT                7,468           7,468
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  COMMAND SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
149               COMMAND SUPPORT                36,433          36,433
                   EQUIPMENT.
150               EDUCATION SUPPORT               3,180           3,180
                   EQUIPMENT.
151               MEDICAL SUPPORT                 4,790           4,790
                   EQUIPMENT.
153               NAVAL MIP SUPPORT               4,608           4,608
                   EQUIPMENT.
154               OPERATING FORCES                5,655           5,655
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT.
155               C4ISR EQUIPMENT......           9,929           9,929
156               ENVIRONMENTAL SUPPORT          26,795          26,795
                   EQUIPMENT.
157               PHYSICAL SECURITY              88,453          88,453
                   EQUIPMENT.
159               ENTERPRISE                     99,094          99,094
                   INFORMATION
                   TECHNOLOGY.
                  OTHER
160               NEXT GENERATION                99,014          99,014
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICE.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
160A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          21,439          21,439
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
161               SPARES AND REPAIR             328,043         328,043
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER            6,614,715       6,660,165
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  TRACKED COMBAT
                   VEHICLES
001               AAV7A1 PIP...........          26,744          26,744
002               LAV PIP..............          54,879          54,879
                  ARTILLERY AND OTHER
                   WEAPONS
003               EXPEDITIONARY FIRE              2,652           2,652
                   SUPPORT SYSTEM.
004               155MM LIGHTWEIGHT               7,482           7,482
                   TOWED HOWITZER.
005               HIGH MOBILITY                  17,181          17,181
                   ARTILLERY ROCKET
                   SYSTEM.
006               WEAPONS AND COMBAT              8,224           8,224
                   VEHICLES UNDER $5
                   MILLION.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
007               MODIFICATION KITS....          14,467          14,467
008               WEAPONS ENHANCEMENT               488             488
                   PROGRAM.
                  GUIDED MISSILES
009               GROUND BASED AIR                7,565           7,565
                   DEFENSE.
010               JAVELIN..............           1,091          51,091
                      Program increase                          [50,000]
                      to support
                      Unfunded
                      Requirements.
011               FOLLOW ON TO SMAW....           4,872           4,872
012               ANTI-ARMOR WEAPONS                668             668
                   SYSTEM-HEAVY (AAWS-
                   H).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
013               MODIFICATION KITS....          12,495         152,495
                      Additional                               [140,000]
                      missiles.
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
014               UNIT OPERATIONS                13,109          13,109
                   CENTER.
015               COMMON AVIATION                35,147          32,956
                   COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (C.
                      Procurement early                         [-2,191]
                      to need.
                  REPAIR AND TEST
                   EQUIPMENT
016               REPAIR AND TEST                21,210          21,210
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
017               COMBAT SUPPORT SYSTEM             792             792
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
019               ITEMS UNDER $5                  3,642           3,642
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
020               AIR OPERATIONS C2               3,520           3,520
                   SYSTEMS.
                  RADAR + EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
021               RADAR SYSTEMS........          35,118          35,118
022               GROUND/AIR TASK               130,661          98,546
                   ORIENTED RADAR (G/
                   ATOR).
                      Delay in IOTE....                        [-32,115]
023               RQ-21 UAS............          84,916          84,916
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
024               FIRE SUPPORT SYSTEM..           9,136           9,136
025               INTELLIGENCE SUPPORT           29,936          29,936
                   EQUIPMENT.
028               DCGS-MC..............           1,947           1,947
                  OTHER COMM/ELEC
                   EQUIPMENT (NON-TEL)
031               NIGHT VISION                    2,018           2,018
                   EQUIPMENT.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (NON-
                   TEL)
032               NEXT GENERATION                67,295          67,295
                   ENTERPRISE NETWORK
                   (NGEN).
033               COMMON COMPUTER                43,101          40,101
                   RESOURCES.
                      Marine Corps                              [-3,000]
                      common hardware
                      suite contract
                      delay.
034               COMMAND POST SYSTEMS.          29,255          29,255
035               RADIO SYSTEMS........          80,584          80,584
036               COMM SWITCHING &               66,123          66,123
                   CONTROL SYSTEMS.
037               COMM & ELEC                    79,486          79,486
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
                   SUPPORT.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
037A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..           2,803           2,803
                  ADMINISTRATIVE
                   VEHICLES
038               COMMERCIAL PASSENGER            3,538           3,538
                   VEHICLES.
039               COMMERCIAL CARGO               22,806          22,806
                   VEHICLES.
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
041               MOTOR TRANSPORT                 7,743           7,743
                   MODIFICATIONS.
043               JOINT LIGHT TACTICAL           79,429          79,429
                   VEHICLE.
044               FAMILY OF TACTICAL              3,157           3,157
                   TRAILERS.
                  OTHER SUPPORT
045               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              6,938           6,938
                   MILLION.
                  ENGINEER AND OTHER
                   EQUIPMENT
046               ENVIRONMENTAL CONTROL              94              94
                   EQUIP ASSORT.
047               BULK LIQUID EQUIPMENT             896             896
048               TACTICAL FUEL SYSTEMS             136             136
049               POWER EQUIPMENT                10,792          10,792
                   ASSORTED.
050               AMPHIBIOUS SUPPORT              3,235           3,235
                   EQUIPMENT.
051               EOD SYSTEMS..........           7,666           7,666
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
052               PHYSICAL SECURITY              33,145          33,145
                   EQUIPMENT.
053               GARRISON MOBILE                 1,419           1,419
                   ENGINEER EQUIPMENT
                   (GMEE).
                  GENERAL PROPERTY
057               TRAINING DEVICES.....          24,163          24,163
058               CONTAINER FAMILY.....             962             962
059               FAMILY OF                       6,545           6,545
                   CONSTRUCTION
                   EQUIPMENT.
060               FAMILY OF INTERNALLY            7,533           7,533
                   TRANSPORTABLE VEH
                   (ITV).
                  OTHER SUPPORT
062               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              4,322           4,322
                   MILLION.
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
063               SPARES AND REPAIR               8,292           8,292
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL                  1,131,418       1,284,112
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL FORCES
001               F-35.................       5,260,212       5,161,112
                      Efficiencies and                         [-99,100]
                      excess cost
                      growth.
002                  ADVANCE                    460,260         460,260
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  TACTICAL AIRLIFT
003               KC-46A TANKER........       2,350,601       2,326,601
                      Program Decrease.                        [-24,000]
                  OTHER AIRLIFT
004               C-130J...............         889,154         848,354
                      Unit cost growth                         [-40,800]
                      and contract
                      delays.
005                  ADVANCE                     50,000          50,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
006               HC-130J..............         463,934         453,934
                      Unit cost growth.                        [-10,000]
007                  ADVANCE                     30,000          30,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
008               MC-130J..............         828,472         797,572
                      Program                                  [-30,900]
                      efficiencies.
009                  ADVANCE                     60,000          60,000
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                  MISSION SUPPORT
                   AIRCRAFT
011               CIVIL AIR PATROL A/C.           2,617           2,617
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
012               TARGET DRONES........         132,028         132,028
014               RQ-4.................          37,800          37,800
015               MQ-9.................         552,528         702,528
                      Accelerating                             [160,000]
                      procurement
                      schedule to meet
                      CCDR demand.
                      Restrain growth                          [-10,000]
                      in government
                      costs.
                  STRATEGIC AIRCRAFT
017               B-2A.................          32,458          32,458
018               B-1B.................         114,119         114,119
019               B-52.................         148,987         148,987
020               LARGE AIRCRAFT                 84,335          84,335
                   INFRARED
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
022               F-15.................         464,367         692,071
                      F-15 MIDS JTRS                           [-12,796]
                      transfer to RDT&E.
                      F-15C AESA radars                         [48,000]
                      F-15D AESA radars                        [192,500]
023               F-16.................          17,134          17,134
024               F-22A................         126,152         126,152
025               F-35 MODIFICATIONS...          70,167          70,167
026               INCREMENT 3.2B.......          69,325          69,325
                  AIRLIFT AIRCRAFT
028               C-5..................           5,604           5,604
030               C-17A................          46,997          46,997
031               C-21.................          10,162          10,162
032               C-32A................          44,464          44,464
033               C-37A................          10,861          10,861
                  TRAINER AIRCRAFT
034               GLIDER MODS..........             134             134
035               T-6..................          17,968          17,968
036               T-1..................          23,706          23,706
037               T-38.................          30,604          30,604
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
038               U-2 MODS.............          22,095          22,095
039               KC-10A (ATCA)........           5,611           5,611
040               C-12.................           1,980           1,980
042               VC-25A MOD...........          98,231          98,231
043               C-40.................          13,171          13,171
044               C-130................           7,048         146,248
                      C-130 AMP                                 [75,000]
                      increase.
                      C-130H Electronic                         [13,500]
                      Prop Control
                      System - UPL.
                      C-130H In-flight                           [1,500]
                      Prop Balancing
                      System - UPL.
                      Eight-Bladed                              [16,000]
                      Propeller.
                      T-56 3.5 Engine                           [33,200]
                      Mod.
045               C-130J MODS..........          29,713          29,713
046               C-135................          49,043          49,043
047               COMPASS CALL MODS....          68,415          97,115
                      EC-130H Force                             [28,700]
                      Structure
                      Restoration.
048               RC-135...............         156,165         156,165
049               E-3..................          13,178          13,178
050               E-4..................          23,937          23,937
051               E-8..................          18,001          18,001
052               AIRBORNE WARNING AND          183,308         183,308
                   CONTROL SYSTEM.
053               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         44,163          44,163
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
054               H-1..................           6,291           6,291
055               UH-1N REPLACEMENT....           2,456           2,456
056               H-60.................          45,731          45,731
057               RQ-4 MODS............          50,022          50,022
058               HC/MC-130                      21,660          21,660
                   MODIFICATIONS.
059               OTHER AIRCRAFT.......         117,767         115,521
                      C2ISR TDL                                 [-2,246]
                      transfer to
                      COMSEC equipment.
060               MQ-1 MODS............           3,173           3,173
061               MQ-9 MODS............         115,226         115,226
063               CV-22 MODS...........          58,828          58,828
                  AIRCRAFT SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
064               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR         656,242         656,242
                   PARTS.
                  COMMON SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
065               AIRCRAFT REPLACEMENT           33,716          33,716
                   SUPPORT EQUIP.
                  POST PRODUCTION
                   SUPPORT
067               B-2A.................          38,837          38,837
068               B-52.................           5,911           5,911
069               C-17A................          30,108          30,108
070               CV-22 POST PRODUCTION           3,353           3,353
                   SUPPORT.
071               C-135................           4,490           4,490
072               F-15.................           3,225           3,225
073               F-16.................          14,969           8,969
                      Unobligated                               [-6,000]
                      balances.
074               F-22A................             971             971
076               MQ-9.................           5,000           5,000
                  INDUSTRIAL
                   PREPAREDNESS
077               INDUSTRIAL                     18,802          18,802
                   RESPONSIVENESS.
                  WAR CONSUMABLES
078               WAR CONSUMABLES......         156,465         156,465
                  OTHER PRODUCTION
                   CHARGES
079               OTHER PRODUCTION            1,052,814       1,111,900
                   CHARGES.
                      Transfer from                             [59,086]
                      RDT&E for NATO
                      AWACS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
079A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          42,503          42,503
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT        15,657,769      16,049,413
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  MISSILE REPLACEMENT
                   EQUIPMENT--BALLISTIC
001               MISSILE REPLACEMENT            94,040          94,040
                   EQ-BALLISTIC.
                  TACTICAL
003               JOINT AIR-SURFACE             440,578         430,578
                   STANDOFF MISSILE.
                      Unit cost                                [-10,000]
                      efficiencies.
004               SIDEWINDER (AIM-9X)..         200,777         200,777
005               AMRAAM...............         390,112         381,728
                      Joint program                             [-8,384]
                      unit cost
                      variance.
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE             423,016         423,016
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..         133,697         133,697
                  INDUSTRIAL FACILITIES
008               INDUSTR'L PREPAREDNS/             397             397
                   POL PREVENTION.
                  CLASS IV
009               MM III MODIFICATIONS.          50,517          50,517
010               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....           9,639           9,639
011               AGM-88A HARM.........             197             197
012               AIR LAUNCH CRUISE              25,019          25,019
                   MISSILE (ALCM).
                  MISSILE SPARES AND
                   REPAIR PARTS
014               INITIAL SPARES/REPAIR          48,523          48,523
                   PARTS.
                  SPECIAL PROGRAMS
028               SPECIAL UPDATE                276,562         276,562
                   PROGRAMS.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
028A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         893,971         893,971
                       TOTAL MISSILE          2,987,045       2,968,661
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  SPACE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
001               ADVANCED EHF.........         333,366         333,366
002               WIDEBAND GAPFILLER             53,476          74,476
                   SATELLITES(SPACE).
                      SATCOM pathfinder                         [26,000]
                      Unjustified                               [-5,000]
                      support growth.
003               GPS III SPACE SEGMENT         199,218         199,218
004               SPACEBORNE EQUIP               18,362          18,362
                   (COMSEC).
005               GLOBAL POSITIONING             66,135          66,135
                   (SPACE).
006               DEF METEOROLOGICAL             89,351          40,000
                   SAT PROG(SPACE).
                      Minimum                                  [-49,351]
                      sustainment of
                      DMSP-20 program.
007               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            571,276         571,276
                   LAUNCH CAPABILITY.
008               EVOLVED EXPENDABLE            800,201         800,201
                   LAUNCH VEH(SPACE).
009               SBIR HIGH (SPACE)....         452,676         452,676
                       TOTAL SPACE            2,584,061       2,555,710
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  ROCKETS
001               ROCKETS..............          23,788          23,788
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........         131,102         169,602
                      Increase to match                         [38,500]
                      size of A-10
                      fleet.
                  BOMBS
003               PRACTICE BOMBS.......          89,759          89,759
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS         637,181         637,181
005               MASSIVE ORDNANCE               39,690          39,690
                   PENETRATOR (MOP).
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           374,688         354,688
                   MUNITION.
                      Program reduction                        [-20,000]
                  OTHER ITEMS
007               CAD/PAD..............          58,266          58,266
008               EXPLOSIVE ORDNANCE              5,612           5,612
                   DISPOSAL (EOD).
009               SPARES AND REPAIR                 103             103
                   PARTS.
010               MODIFICATIONS........           1,102           1,102
011               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              3,044           3,044
                   MILLION.
                  FLARES
012               FLARES...............         120,935         120,935
                  FUZES
013               FUZES................         213,476         213,476
                  SMALL ARMS
014               SMALL ARMS...........          60,097          60,097
                       TOTAL                  1,758,843       1,777,343
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  PASSENGER CARRYING
                   VEHICLES
001               PASSENGER CARRYING              8,834           8,834
                   VEHICLES.
                  CARGO AND UTILITY
                   VEHICLES
002               MEDIUM TACTICAL                58,160          58,160
                   VEHICLE.
003               CAP VEHICLES.........             977             977
004               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             12,483          12,483
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL PURPOSE
                   VEHICLES
005               SECURITY AND TACTICAL           4,728           4,728
                   VEHICLES.
006               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              4,662           4,662
                   MILLION.
                  FIRE FIGHTING
                   EQUIPMENT
007               FIRE FIGHTING/CRASH            10,419          10,419
                   RESCUE VEHICLES.
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
008               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             23,320          23,320
                   MILLION.
                  BASE MAINTENANCE
                   SUPPORT
009               RUNWAY SNOW REMOV &             6,215           6,215
                   CLEANING EQUIP.
010               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             87,781          87,781
                   MILLION.
                  COMM SECURITY
                   EQUIPMENT(COMSEC)
011               COMSEC EQUIPMENT.....         136,998         139,244
                      Transfer for Link                          [2,246]
                      16 Upgrades.
012               MODIFICATIONS                     677             677
                   (COMSEC).
                  INTELLIGENCE PROGRAMS
013               INTELLIGENCE TRAINING           4,041           4,041
                   EQUIPMENT.
014               INTELLIGENCE COMM              22,573          22,573
                   EQUIPMENT.
015               MISSION PLANNING               14,456          14,456
                   SYSTEMS.
                  ELECTRONICS PROGRAMS
016               AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL &          31,823          31,823
                   LANDING SYS.
017               NATIONAL AIRSPACE               5,833           5,833
                   SYSTEM.
018               BATTLE CONTROL                  1,687           1,687
                   SYSTEM--FIXED.
019               THEATER AIR CONTROL            22,710          22,710
                   SYS IMPROVEMENTS.
020               WEATHER OBSERVATION            21,561          21,561
                   FORECAST.
021               STRATEGIC COMMAND AND         286,980         286,980
                   CONTROL.
022               CHEYENNE MOUNTAIN              36,186          36,186
                   COMPLEX.
024               INTEGRATED STRAT PLAN           9,597           9,597
                   & ANALY NETWORK
                   (ISPAN).
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
025               GENERAL INFORMATION            27,403          27,403
                   TECHNOLOGY.
026               AF GLOBAL COMMAND &             7,212           7,212
                   CONTROL SYS.
027               MOBILITY COMMAND AND           11,062          30,962
                   CONTROL.
                      Additional                                [19,900]
                      battlefield air
                      operations kits
                      to meet need.
028               AIR FORCE PHYSICAL            131,269         131,269
                   SECURITY SYSTEM.
029               COMBAT TRAINING                33,606          33,606
                   RANGES.
030               MINIMUM ESSENTIAL               5,232           5,232
                   EMERGENCY COMM N.
031               C3 COUNTERMEASURES...           7,453           7,453
032               INTEGRATED PERSONNEL            3,976           3,976
                   AND PAY SYSTEM.
033               GCSS-AF FOS..........          25,515          16,515
                      LOGIT--prioritize                         [-9,000]
                      FIAR projects.
034               DEFENSE ENTERPRISE              9,255           9,255
                   ACCOUNTING AND MGMT
                   SYSTEM.
035               THEATER BATTLE MGT C2           7,523           7,523
                   SYSTEM.
036               AIR & SPACE                    12,043          12,043
                   OPERATIONS CTR-WPN
                   SYS.
037               AIR OPERATIONS CENTER          24,246          14,846
                   (AOC) 10.2.
                      Fielding funds                            [-9,400]
                      ahead of need.
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
038               INFORMATION TRANSPORT          74,621          74,621
                   SYSTEMS.
039               AFNET................         103,748          98,748
                      Restructure                               [-5,000]
                      program.
041               JOINT COMMUNICATIONS            5,199           5,199
                   SUPPORT ELEMENT
                   (JCSE).
042               USCENTCOM............          15,780          15,780
                  SPACE PROGRAMS
043               FAMILY OF BEYOND LINE-         79,592          64,592
                   OF-SIGHT TERMINALS.
                      Ahead of need....                        [-15,000]
044               SPACE BASED IR SENSOR          90,190          90,190
                   PGM SPACE.
045               NAVSTAR GPS SPACE....           2,029           2,029
046               NUDET DETECTION SYS             5,095           5,095
                   SPACE.
047               AF SATELLITE CONTROL           76,673          76,673
                   NETWORK SPACE.
048               SPACELIFT RANGE               113,275         113,275
                   SYSTEM SPACE.
049               MILSATCOM SPACE......          35,495          35,495
050               SPACE MODS SPACE.....          23,435          23,435
051               COUNTERSPACE SYSTEM..          43,065          43,065
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
052               TACTICAL C-E                   77,538         133,438
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      Battlefield                               [19,900]
                      Airmen Kits
                      Unfunded
                      Requirement.
                      Joint Terminal                            [36,000]
                      Control Training
                      Simulation
                      Unfunded
                      Requirement.
054               RADIO EQUIPMENT......           8,400           8,400
055               CCTV/AUDIOVISUAL                6,144           6,144
                   EQUIPMENT.
056               BASE COMM                      77,010          77,010
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  MODIFICATIONS
057               COMM ELECT MODS......          71,800          71,800
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
058               NIGHT VISION GOGGLES.           2,370           2,370
059               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             79,623          79,623
                   MILLION.
                  DEPOT PLANT+MTRLS
                   HANDLING EQ
060               MECHANIZED MATERIAL             7,249           7,249
                   HANDLING EQUIP.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
061               BASE PROCURED                   9,095           9,095
                   EQUIPMENT.
062               ENGINEERING AND EOD            17,866          17,866
                   EQUIPMENT.
064               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...          61,850          61,850
065               ITEMS LESS THAN $5             30,477          30,477
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
067               DARP RC135...........          25,072          25,072
068               DCGS-AF..............         183,021         183,021
070               SPECIAL UPDATE                629,371         629,371
                   PROGRAM.
071               DEFENSE SPACE                 100,663         100,663
                   RECONNAISSANCE PROG..
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
071A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..      15,038,333      15,038,333
                  SPARES AND REPAIR
                   PARTS
073               SPARES AND REPAIR              59,863          59,863
                   PARTS.
                       TOTAL OTHER           18,272,438      18,312,084
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCAA
001               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              1,488           1,488
                   MILLION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DCMA
002               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           2,494           2,494
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DHRA
003               PERSONNEL                       9,341           9,341
                   ADMINISTRATION.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
007               INFORMATION SYSTEMS             8,080          15,080
                   SECURITY.
                      SHARKSEER........                          [7,000]
008               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....          62,789          62,789
009               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              9,399           9,399
                   MILLION.
010               NET CENTRIC                     1,819           1,819
                   ENTERPRISE SERVICES
                   (NCES).
011               DEFENSE INFORMATION           141,298         141,298
                   SYSTEM NETWORK.
012               CYBER SECURITY                 12,732          12,732
                   INITIATIVE.
013               WHITE HOUSE                    64,098          64,098
                   COMMUNICATION AGENCY.
014               SENIOR LEADERSHIP             617,910         617,910
                   ENTERPRISE.
015               JOINT INFORMATION              84,400          84,400
                   ENVIRONMENT.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DLA
016               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           5,644           5,644
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DMACT
017               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......          11,208          11,208
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DODEA
018               AUTOMATION/                     1,298           1,298
                   EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT
                   & LOGISTICS.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE SECURITY
                   COOPERATION AGENCY
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DSS
020               MAJOR EQUIPMENT......           1,048           1,048
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   DEFENSE THREAT
                   REDUCTION AGENCY
021               VEHICLES.............             100             100
022               OTHER MAJOR EQUIPMENT           5,474           5,474
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
023               THAAD................         464,067         464,067
024               AEGIS BMD............         558,916         679,361
                      Increase SM-3                              [2,565]
                      Block IB
                      canisters.
                      Increase SM-3                            [117,880]
                      Block IB purchase.
025                  ADVANCE                    147,765        -147,765
                     PROCUREMENT (CY).
                      SM-3 Block IB....                       [-147,765]
026               BMDS AN/TPY-2 RADARS.          78,634          78,634
027               AEGIS ASHORE PHASE             30,587          30,587
                   III.
028               IRON DOME............          55,000         -55,000
                      Realignment of                           [-41,400]
                      Iron Dome to
                      Overseas
                      Contingency
                      Operations.
                      Request excess of                        [-13,600]
                      requirement.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, NSA
035               INFORMATION SYSTEMS            37,177          37,177
                   SECURITY PROGRAM
                   (ISSP).
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD
036               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, OSD.          46,939          46,939
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS
038               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, TJS.          13,027          13,027
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS
040               MAJOR EQUIPMENT, WHS.          27,859          27,859
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
040A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..         617,757         617,757
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
041               MC-12................          63,170         -63,170
                      SOCOM requested                          [-63,170]
                      realignment.
042               ROTARY WING UPGRADES          135,985         135,985
                   AND SUSTAINMENT.
044               NON-STANDARD AVIATION          61,275          61,275
045               U-28.................                          63,170
                      SOCOM requested                           [63,170]
                      realignment.
047               RQ-11 UNMANNED AERIAL          20,087          20,087
                   VEHICLE.
048               CV-22 MODIFICATION...          18,832          18,832
049               MQ-1 UNMANNED AERIAL            1,934           1,934
                   VEHICLE.
050               MQ-9 UNMANNED AERIAL           11,726          21,726
                   VEHICLE.
                      MQ-9 capability                           [10,000]
                      enhancements.
051               STUASL0..............           1,514           1,514
052               PRECISION STRIKE              204,105         204,105
                   PACKAGE.
053               AC/MC-130J...........          61,368          61,368
054               C-130 MODIFICATIONS..          66,861          31,412
                      C-130 TF/TA                              [-35,449]
                      adjustments.
                  SHIPBUILDING
055               UNDERWATER SYSTEMS...          32,521          32,521
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
056               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..         174,734         174,734
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
057               INTELLIGENCE SYSTEMS.          93,009          93,009
058               DISTRIBUTED COMMON             14,964          14,964
                   GROUND/SURFACE
                   SYSTEMS.
059               OTHER ITEMS <$5M.....          79,149          79,149
060               COMBATANT CRAFT                33,362          33,362
                   SYSTEMS.
061               SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....         143,533         143,533
062               TACTICAL VEHICLES....          73,520          73,520
063               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.         186,009         186,009
064               COMBAT MISSION                 19,693          19,693
                   REQUIREMENTS.
065               GLOBAL VIDEO                    3,967           3,967
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   ACTIVITIES.
066               OPERATIONAL                    19,225          19,225
                   ENHANCEMENTS
                   INTELLIGENCE.
068               OPERATIONAL                   213,252         213,252
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                  CBDP
074               CHEMICAL BIOLOGICAL           141,223         141,223
                   SITUATIONAL
                   AWARENESS.
075               CB PROTECTION &               137,487         137,487
                   HAZARD MITIGATION.
                       TOTAL                  5,130,853       5,030,084
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
                  JOINT URGENT
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND
001               JOINT URGENT                   99,701         -99,701
                   OPERATIONAL NEEDS
                   FUND.
                      Program reduction                        [-99,701]
                       TOTAL JOINT               99,701         -99,701
                       URGENT
                       OPERATIONAL
                       NEEDS FUND.
 
                       TOTAL                106,967,393     110,823,998
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4102. PROCUREMENT FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2016        Conference
      Line                 Item              Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  FIXED WING
003               AERIAL COMMON SENSOR           99,500          99,500
                   (ACS) (MIP).
004               MQ-1 UAV.............          16,537          16,537
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
016               MQ-1 PAYLOAD (MIP)...           8,700           8,700
023               ARL SEMA MODS (MIP)..          32,000          32,000
031               RQ-7 UAV MODS........           8,250           8,250
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           164,987         164,987
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  AIR-TO-SURFACE
                   MISSILE SYSTEM
003               HELLFIRE SYS SUMMARY.          37,260          37,260
                       TOTAL MISSILE             37,260          37,260
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF W&TCV,
                   ARMY
                  WEAPONS & OTHER
                   COMBAT VEHICLES
016               MORTAR SYSTEMS.......           7,030           7,030
021               COMMON REMOTELY                19,000          19,000
                   OPERATED WEAPONS
                   STATION.
                       TOTAL                     26,030          26,030
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       W&TCV, ARMY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, ARMY
                  SMALL/MEDIUM CAL
                   AMMUNITION
004               CTG, .50 CAL, ALL               4,000           4,000
                   TYPES.
                  MORTAR AMMUNITION
008               60MM MORTAR, ALL               11,700          11,700
                   TYPES.
009               81MM MORTAR, ALL                4,000           4,000
                   TYPES.
010               120MM MORTAR, ALL               7,000           7,000
                   TYPES.
                  ARTILLERY AMMUNITION
012               ARTILLERY CARTRIDGES,           5,000           5,000
                   75MM & 105MM, ALL
                   TYPES.
013               ARTILLERY PROJECTILE,          10,000          10,000
                   155MM, ALL TYPES.
015               ARTILLERY                       2,000           2,000
                   PROPELLANTS, FUZES
                   AND PRIMERS, ALL.
                  ROCKETS
017               ROCKET, HYDRA 70, ALL         136,340         136,340
                   TYPES.
                  OTHER AMMUNITION
019               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,           4,000           4,000
                   ALL TYPES.
021               SIGNALS, ALL TYPES...           8,000           8,000
                       TOTAL                    192,040         192,040
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, ARMY.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   ARMY
                  TACTICAL VEHICLES
005               FAMILY OF MEDIUM              243,998         243,998
                   TACTICAL VEH (FMTV).
009               HVY EXPANDED MOBILE           223,276         223,276
                   TACTICAL TRUCK EXT
                   SERV.
011               MODIFICATION OF IN            130,000         130,000
                   SVC EQUIP.
012               MINE-RESISTANT AMBUSH-        393,100         393,100
                   PROTECTED (MRAP)
                   MODS.
                  COMM--SATELLITE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
021               TRANSPORTABLE                   5,724           5,724
                   TACTICAL COMMAND
                   COMMUNICATIONS.
                  COMM--BASE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
051               INSTALLATION INFO              29,500          29,500
                   INFRASTRUCTURE MOD
                   PROGRAM.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACT INT
                   REL ACT (TIARA)
057               DCGS-A (MIP).........          54,140          54,140
059               TROJAN (MIP).........           6,542           6,542
061               CI HUMINT AUTO                  3,860           3,860
                   REPRTING AND
                   COLL(CHARCS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   ELECTRONIC WARFARE
                   (EW)
068               FAMILY OF PERSISTENT           14,847          14,847
                   SURVEILLANCE
                   CAPABILITIE.
069               COUNTERINTELLIGENCE/           19,535          19,535
                   SECURITY
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   SURV. (TAC SURV)
084               COMPUTER BALLISTICS:            2,601           2,601
                   LHMBC XM32.
                  ELECT EQUIP--TACTICAL
                   C2 SYSTEMS
087               FIRE SUPPORT C2                    48              48
                   FAMILY.
094               MANEUVER CONTROL                  252             252
                   SYSTEM (MCS).
                  ELECT EQUIP--
                   AUTOMATION
101               AUTOMATED DATA                    652             652
                   PROCESSING EQUIP.
                  CHEMICAL DEFENSIVE
                   EQUIPMENT
111               BASE DEFENSE SYSTEMS            4,035           4,035
                   (BDS).
                  COMBAT SERVICE
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
131               FORCE PROVIDER.......          53,800          53,800
133               CARGO AERIAL DEL &                700             700
                   PERSONNEL PARACHUTE
                   SYSTEM.
                  MATERIAL HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
159               FAMILY OF FORKLIFTS..          10,486          10,486
                  OTHER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
169               RAPID EQUIPPING                 8,500           8,500
                   SOLDIER SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT.
                       TOTAL OTHER            1,205,596       1,205,596
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       ARMY.
 
                  JOINT IMPR EXPLOSIVE
                   DEV DEFEAT FUND
                  NETWORK ATTACK
001               ATTACK THE NETWORK...         219,550         215,086
                      Adjustment due to                         [-4,464]
                      low execution in
                      prior years.
                  JIEDDO DEVICE DEFEAT
002               DEFEAT THE DEVICE....          77,600          77,600
                  FORCE TRAINING
003               TRAIN THE FORCE......           7,850           7,850
                  STAFF AND
                   INFRASTRUCTURE
004               OPERATIONS...........         188,271         138,271
                      Program Reduction                        [-50,000]
                       TOTAL JOINT IMPR         493,271         438,807
                       EXPLOSIVE DEV
                       DEFEAT FUND.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
026               STUASL0 UAV..........          55,000          55,000
                  MODIFICATION OF
                   AIRCRAFT
030               AV-8 SERIES..........          41,365          41,365
032               F-18 SERIES..........           8,000           8,000
037               EP-3 SERIES..........           6,300           6,300
047               SPECIAL PROJECT                14,198          14,198
                   AIRCRAFT.
051               COMMON ECM EQUIPMENT.          72,700          72,700
052               COMMON AVIONICS                13,988          13,988
                   CHANGES.
059               V-22 (TILT/ROTOR                4,900           4,900
                   ACFT) OSPREY.
                  AIRCRAFT SUPPORT
                   EQUIP & FACILITIES
065               AIRCRAFT INDUSTRIAL               943             943
                   FACILITIES.
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           217,394         217,394
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  WEAPONS PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  TACTICAL MISSILES
010               LASER MAVERICK.......           3,344           3,344
                       TOTAL WEAPONS              3,344           3,344
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF AMMO,
                   NAVY & MC
                  NAVY AMMUNITION
001               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS           9,715           9,715
002               AIRBORNE ROCKETS, ALL          11,108          11,108
                   TYPES.
003               MACHINE GUN                     3,603           3,603
                   AMMUNITION.
006               AIR EXPENDABLE                 11,982          11,982
                   COUNTERMEASURES.
011               OTHER SHIP GUN                  4,674           4,674
                   AMMUNITION.
012               SMALL ARMS & LANDING            3,456           3,456
                   PARTY AMMO.
013               PYROTECHNIC AND                 1,989           1,989
                   DEMOLITION.
014               AMMUNITION LESS THAN            4,674           4,674
                   $5 MILLION.
                  MARINE CORPS
                   AMMUNITION
020               120MM, ALL TYPES.....          10,719          10,719
023               ROCKETS, ALL TYPES...           3,993           3,993
024               ARTILLERY, ALL TYPES.          67,200          67,200
025               DEMOLITION MUNITIONS,             518             518
                   ALL TYPES.
026               FUZE, ALL TYPES......           3,299           3,299
                       TOTAL                    136,930         136,930
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMO, NAVY & MC.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   NAVY
                  CIVIL ENGINEERING
                   SUPPORT EQUIPMENT
135               PASSENGER CARRYING                186             186
                   VEHICLES.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
160A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          12,000          12,000
                       TOTAL OTHER               12,186          12,186
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       NAVY.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, MARINE
                   CORPS
                  GUIDED MISSILES
010               JAVELIN..............           7,679           7,679
                  OTHER SUPPORT
013               MODIFICATION KITS....          10,311          10,311
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEMS
014               UNIT OPERATIONS                 8,221           8,221
                   CENTER.
                  OTHER SUPPORT (TEL)
018               MODIFICATION KITS....           3,600           3,600
                  COMMAND AND CONTROL
                   SYSTEM (NON-TEL)
019               ITEMS UNDER $5                  8,693           8,693
                   MILLION (COMM &
                   ELEC).
                  INTELL/COMM EQUIPMENT
                   (NON-TEL)
027               RQ-11 UAV............           3,430           3,430
                  MATERIALS HANDLING
                   EQUIPMENT
052               PHYSICAL SECURITY               7,000           7,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
                       TOTAL                     48,934          48,934
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       MARINE CORPS.
 
                  AIRCRAFT PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
015               MQ-9.................          13,500          13,500
                  OTHER AIRCRAFT
044               C-130................           1,410           1,410
056               H-60.................          39,300          39,300
058               HC/MC-130                       5,690           5,690
                   MODIFICATIONS.
061               MQ-9 MODS............          69,000          69,000
                       TOTAL AIRCRAFT           128,900         128,900
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  MISSILE PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  TACTICAL
006               PREDATOR HELLFIRE             280,902         280,902
                   MISSILE.
007               SMALL DIAMETER BOMB..           2,520           2,520
                  CLASS IV
010               AGM-65D MAVERICK.....           5,720           5,720
                       TOTAL MISSILE            289,142         289,142
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT OF
                   AMMUNITION, AIR
                   FORCE
                  CARTRIDGES
002               CARTRIDGES...........           8,371           8,371
                  BOMBS
004               GENERAL PURPOSE BOMBS          17,031          17,031
006               JOINT DIRECT ATTACK           184,412         184,412
                   MUNITION.
                  FLARES
012               FLARES...............          11,064          11,064
                  FUZES
013               FUZES................           7,996           7,996
                       TOTAL                    228,874         228,874
                       PROCUREMENT OF
                       AMMUNITION, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT,
                   AIR FORCE
                  SPCL COMM-ELECTRONICS
                   PROJECTS
025               GENERAL INFORMATION             3,953           3,953
                   TECHNOLOGY.
027               MOBILITY COMMAND AND            2,000           2,000
                   CONTROL.
                  AIR FORCE
                   COMMUNICATIONS
042               USCENTCOM............          10,000          10,000
                  ORGANIZATION AND BASE
052               TACTICAL C-E                    4,065           4,065
                   EQUIPMENT.
056               BASE COMM                      15,400          15,400
                   INFRASTRUCTURE.
                  PERSONAL SAFETY &
                   RESCUE EQUIP
058               NIGHT VISION GOGGLES.           3,580           3,580
059               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              3,407           3,407
                   MILLION.
                  BASE SUPPORT
                   EQUIPMENT
062               ENGINEERING AND EOD            46,790          46,790
                   EQUIPMENT.
064               MOBILITY EQUIPMENT...             400             400
065               ITEMS LESS THAN $5              9,800           9,800
                   MILLION.
                  SPECIAL SUPPORT
                   PROJECTS
071               DEFENSE SPACE                  28,070          28,070
                   RECONNAISSANCE PROG..
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
071A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..       3,732,499       3,732,499
                       TOTAL OTHER            3,859,964       3,859,964
                       PROCUREMENT, AIR
                       FORCE.
 
                  PROCUREMENT, DEFENSE-
                   WIDE
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT, DISA
008               TELEPORT PROGRAM.....           1,940           1,940
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
028               IRON DOME............                          41,400
                      Realignment of                            [41,400]
                      Iron Dome to
                      Overseas
                      Contingency
                      Operations--Subje
                      ct to Title XVI.
                  MAJOR EQUIPMENT,
                   MISSILE DEFENSE
                   AGENCY
028A              DAVID SLING..........                         150,000
                      David's Sling                            [150,000]
                      Weapon System
                      Procurement--Subj
                      ect to Title XVI.
028B              ARROW 3..............                          15,000
                      Arrow 3 Upper                             [15,000]
                      Tier Procurement--
                      Subject to Title
                      XVI.
                  CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS
040A              CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS..          35,482          35,482
                  AVIATION PROGRAMS
041               MC-12................           5,000           5,000
                  AMMUNITION PROGRAMS
056               ORDNANCE ITEMS <$5M..          35,299          35,299
                  OTHER PROCUREMENT
                   PROGRAMS
061               SPECIAL PROGRAMS.....          15,160          15,160
063               WARRIOR SYSTEMS <$5M.          15,000          15,000
068               OPERATIONAL                   104,537         104,537
                   ENHANCEMENTS.
                       TOTAL                    212,418         418,818
                       PROCUREMENT,
                       DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
                  NATIONAL GUARD AND
                   RESERVE EQUIPMENT
                  UNDISTRIBUTED
007               MISCELLANEOUS                                 420,000
                   EQUIPMENT.
                      NGREA Program                            [420,000]
                      Increase.
                       TOTAL NATIONAL                           420,000
                       GUARD AND
                       RESERVE
                       EQUIPMENT.
 
                       TOTAL                  7,257,270       7,829,206
                       PROCUREMENT.
------------------------------------------------------------------------


        TITLE XLII--RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION

SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4201. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2016      Conference
  Line   Program Element        Item           Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL,
                           ARMY
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601101A         IN-HOUSE                13,018         13,018
                           LABORATORY
                           INDEPENDENT
                           RESEARCH.
   002   0601102A         DEFENSE RESEARCH       239,118        279,118
                           SCIENCES.
         ...............      Basic                             [40,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
   003   0601103A         UNIVERSITY              72,603         72,603
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
   004   0601104A         UNIVERSITY AND         100,340        100,340
                           INDUSTRY
                           RESEARCH
                           CENTERS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            425,079        465,079
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   005   0602105A         MATERIALS               28,314         28,314
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   006   0602120A         SENSORS AND             38,374         38,374
                           ELECTRONIC
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   007   0602122A         TRACTOR HIP.....         6,879          6,879
   008   0602211A         AVIATION                56,884         56,884
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   009   0602270A         ELECTRONIC              19,243         19,243
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   010   0602303A         MISSILE                 45,053         53,053
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      A2/AD Anti-                        [8,000]
                              Ship Missile
                              Study.
   011   0602307A         ADVANCED WEAPONS        29,428         29,428
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   012   0602308A         ADVANCED                27,862         27,862
                           CONCEPTS AND
                           SIMULATION.
   013   0602601A         COMBAT VEHICLE          68,839         68,839
                           AND AUTOMOTIVE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   014   0602618A         BALLISTICS              92,801         92,801
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   015   0602622A         CHEMICAL, SMOKE          3,866          3,866
                           AND EQUIPMENT
                           DEFEATING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   016   0602623A         JOINT SERVICE            5,487          5,487
                           SMALL ARMS
                           PROGRAM.
   017   0602624A         WEAPONS AND             48,340         48,340
                           MUNITIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0602705A         ELECTRONICS AND         55,301         55,301
                           ELECTRONIC
                           DEVICES.
   019   0602709A         NIGHT VISION            33,807         33,807
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0602712A         COUNTERMINE             25,068         25,068
                           SYSTEMS.
   021   0602716A         HUMAN FACTORS           23,681         23,681
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   022   0602720A         ENVIRONMENTAL           20,850         20,850
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   023   0602782A         COMMAND,                36,160         36,160
                           CONTROL,
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0602783A         COMPUTER AND            12,656         12,656
                           SOFTWARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0602784A         MILITARY                63,409         63,409
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   026   0602785A         MANPOWER/               24,735         24,735
                           PERSONNEL/
                           TRAINING
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   027   0602786A         WARFIGHTER              35,795         35,795
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   028   0602787A         MEDICAL                 76,853         76,853
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            879,685        887,685
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   029   0603001A         WARFIGHTER              46,973         46,973
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   030   0603002A         MEDICAL ADVANCED        69,584         69,584
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   031   0603003A         AVIATION                89,736         89,736
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   032   0603004A         WEAPONS AND             57,663         57,663
                           MUNITIONS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   033   0603005A         COMBAT VEHICLE         113,071        113,071
                           AND AUTOMOTIVE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   034   0603006A         SPACE                    5,554          5,554
                           APPLICATION
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   035   0603007A         MANPOWER,               12,636         12,636
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           TRAINING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   037   0603009A         TRACTOR HIKE....         7,502          7,502
   038   0603015A         NEXT GENERATION         17,425         17,425
                           TRAINING &
                           SIMULATION
                           SYSTEMS.
   039   0603020A         TRACTOR ROSE....        11,912         11,912
   040   0603125A         COMBATING               27,520         27,520
                           TERRORISM--TECH
                           NOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   041   0603130A         TRACTOR NAIL....         2,381          2,381
   042   0603131A         TRACTOR EGGS....         2,431          2,431
   043   0603270A         ELECTRONIC              26,874         26,874
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   044   0603313A         MISSILE AND             49,449         49,449
                           ROCKET ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   045   0603322A         TRACTOR CAGE....        10,999         10,999
   046   0603461A         HIGH PERFORMANCE       177,159        177,159
                           COMPUTING
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   047   0603606A         LANDMINE WARFARE        13,993         13,993
                           AND BARRIER
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   048   0603607A         JOINT SERVICE            5,105          5,105
                           SMALL ARMS
                           PROGRAM.
   049   0603710A         NIGHT VISION            40,929         40,929
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   050   0603728A         ENVIRONMENTAL           10,727         10,727
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   051   0603734A         MILITARY                20,145         20,145
                           ENGINEERING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   052   0603772A         ADVANCED                38,163         38,163
                           TACTICAL
                           COMPUTER
                           SCIENCE AND
                           SENSOR
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   053   0603794A         C3 ADVANCED             37,816         37,816
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            895,747        895,747
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   054   0603305A         ARMY MISSLE             10,347         10,347
                           DEFENSE SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   055   0603308A         ARMY SPACE              25,061         25,061
                           SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   056   0603619A         LANDMINE WARFARE        49,636         49,636
                           AND BARRIER--
                           ADV DEV.
   057   0603627A         SMOKE, OBSCURANT        13,426         13,426
                           AND TARGET
                           DEFEATING SYS-
                           ADV DEV.
   058   0603639A         TANK AND MEDIUM         46,749         46,749
                           CALIBER
                           AMMUNITION.
   060   0603747A         SOLDIER SUPPORT          6,258          6,258
                           AND
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   061   0603766A         TACTICAL                13,472         13,472
                           ELECTRONIC
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM--ADV DEV.
   062   0603774A         NIGHT VISION             7,292          7,292
                           SYSTEMS
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   063   0603779A         ENVIRONMENTAL            8,813          8,813
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY--DEM/
                           VAL.
   065   0603790A         NATO RESEARCH            6,075          6,075
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   067   0603804A         LOGISTICS AND           21,233         21,233
                           ENGINEER
                           EQUIPMENT--ADV
                           DEV.
   068   0603807A         MEDICAL SYSTEMS--       31,962         31,962
                           ADV DEV.
   069   0603827A         SOLDIER SYSTEMS--       22,194         22,194
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   071   0604100A         ANALYSIS OF              9,805          9,805
                           ALTERNATIVES.
   072   0604115A         TECHNOLOGY              40,917         40,917
                           MATURATION
                           INITIATIVES.
   073   0604120A         ASSURED                 30,058         30,058
                           POSITIONING,
                           NAVIGATION AND
                           TIMING (PNT).
   074   0604319A         INDIRECT FIRE          155,361        155,361
                           PROTECTION
                           CAPABILITY
                           INCREMENT 2-
                           INTERCEPT
                           (IFPC2).
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            498,659        498,659
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   076   0604201A         AIRCRAFT                12,939         12,939
                           AVIONICS.
   078   0604270A         ELECTRONIC              18,843         18,843
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   079   0604280A         JOINT TACTICAL           9,861          9,861
                           RADIO.
   080   0604290A         MID-TIER                 8,763          8,763
                           NETWORKING
                           VEHICULAR RADIO
                           (MNVR).
   081   0604321A         ALL SOURCE               4,309          4,309
                           ANALYSIS SYSTEM.
   082   0604328A         TRACTOR CAGE....        15,138         15,138
   083   0604601A         INFANTRY SUPPORT        74,128         80,628
                           WEAPONS.
         ...............      Army                               [1,500]
                              requested
                              realignment.
         ...............      Soldier                            [5,000]
                              Enhancement
                              Program.
   085   0604611A         JAVELIN.........         3,945          3,945
   087   0604633A         AIR TRAFFIC             10,076         10,076
                           CONTROL.
   088   0604641A         TACTICAL                40,374         40,374
                           UNMANNED GROUND
                           VEHICLE (TUGV).
   089   0604710A         NIGHT VISION            67,582         67,582
                           SYSTEMS--ENG
                           DEV.
   090   0604713A         COMBAT FEEDING,          1,763          1,763
                           CLOTHING, AND
                           EQUIPMENT.
   091   0604715A         NON-SYSTEM              27,155         27,155
                           TRAINING
                           DEVICES--ENG
                           DEV.
   092   0604741A         AIR DEFENSE             24,569         24,569
                           COMMAND,
                           CONTROL AND
                           INTELLIGENCE--E
                           NG DEV.
   093   0604742A         CONSTRUCTIVE            23,364         23,364
                           SIMULATION
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   094   0604746A         AUTOMATIC TEST           8,960          8,960
                           EQUIPMENT
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   095   0604760A         DISTRIBUTIVE             9,138          9,138
                           INTERACTIVE
                           SIMULATIONS
                           (DIS)--ENG DEV.
   096   0604780A         COMBINED ARMS           21,622         21,622
                           TACTICAL
                           TRAINER (CATT)
                           CORE.
   097   0604798A         BRIGADE                 99,242         99,242
                           ANALYSIS,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           EVALUATION.
   098   0604802A         WEAPONS AND             21,379         21,379
                           MUNITIONS--ENG
                           DEV.
   099   0604804A         LOGISTICS AND           48,339         48,339
                           ENGINEER
                           EQUIPMENT--ENG
                           DEV.
   100   0604805A         COMMAND,                 2,726          2,726
                           CONTROL,
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS--ENG
                           DEV.
   101   0604807A         MEDICAL MATERIEL/       45,412         45,412
                           MEDICAL
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           EQUIPMENT--ENG
                           DEV.
   102   0604808A         LANDMINE WARFARE/       55,215         55,215
                           BARRIER--ENG
                           DEV.
   104   0604818A         ARMY TACTICAL          163,643        163,643
                           COMMAND &
                           CONTROL
                           HARDWARE &
                           SOFTWARE.
   105   0604820A         RADAR                   12,309         12,309
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   106   0604822A         GENERAL FUND            15,700         15,700
                           ENTERPRISE
                           BUSINESS SYSTEM
                           (GFEBS).
   107   0604823A         FIREFINDER......         6,243          6,243
   108   0604827A         SOLDIER SYSTEMS--       18,776         18,776
                           WARRIOR DEM/VAL.
   109   0604854A         ARTILLERY                1,953          1,953
                           SYSTEMS--EMD.
   110   0605013A         INFORMATION             67,358         67,358
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   111   0605018A         INTEGRATED             136,011        121,011
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           PAY SYSTEM-ARMY
                           (IPPS-A).
         ...............      Restructure                      [-15,000]
                              program.
   112   0605028A         ARMORED MULTI-         230,210        230,210
                           PURPOSE VEHICLE
                           (AMPV).
   113   0605030A         JOINT TACTICAL          13,357         13,357
                           NETWORK CENTER
                           (JTNC).
   114   0605031A         JOINT TACTICAL          18,055         18,055
                           NETWORK (JTN).
   115   0605032A         TRACTOR TIRE....         5,677          5,677
   116   0605035A         COMMON INFRARED         77,570        101,570
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (CIRCM).
         ...............      Apache                            [24,000]
                              Survivabilit
                              y
                              Enhancements
                              -Army
                              Unfunded
                              Requirement.
   117   0605051A         AIRCRAFT                18,112         78,112
                           SURVIVABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Apache                            [60,000]
                              Survivabilit
                              y
                              Enhancements
                              -Army
                              Unfunded
                              Requirement.
   118   0605350A         WIN-T INCREMENT         39,700         39,700
                           3--FULL
                           NETWORKING.
   119   0605380A         AMF JOINT               12,987         12,987
                           TACTICAL RADIO
                           SYSTEM (JTRS).
   120   0605450A         JOINT AIR-TO-           88,866         83,054
                           GROUND MISSILE
                           (JAGM).
         ...............      EMD contract                      [-5,812]
                              delays.
   121   0605456A         PAC-3/MSE                2,272          2,272
                           MISSILE.
   122   0605457A         ARMY INTEGRATED        214,099        214,099
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE (AIAMD).
   123   0605625A         MANNED GROUND           49,247         39,247
                           VEHICLE.
         ...............      Funding                          [-10,000]
                              ahead of
                              need.
   124   0605626A         AERIAL COMMON                2              2
                           SENSOR.
   125   0605766A         NATIONAL                10,599         10,599
                           CAPABILITIES
                           INTEGRATION
                           (MIP).
   126   0605812A         JOINT LIGHT             32,486         32,486
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLE (JLTV)
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           MANUFACTURING
                           DEVELOPMENT PH.
   127   0605830A         AVIATION GROUND          8,880          8,880
                           SUPPORT
                           EQUIPMENT.
   128   0210609A         PALADIN                152,288        152,288
                           INTEGRATED
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (PIM).
   129   0303032A         TROJAN--RH12....         5,022          5,022
   130   0304270A         ELECTRONIC              12,686         12,686
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          2,068,950      2,128,638
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  RDT&E MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   131   0604256A         THREAT SIMULATOR        20,035         20,035
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   132   0604258A         TARGET SYSTEMS          16,684         16,684
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   133   0604759A         MAJOR T&E               62,580         62,580
                           INVESTMENT.
   134   0605103A         RAND ARROYO             20,853         20,853
                           CENTER.
   135   0605301A         ARMY KWAJALEIN         205,145        205,145
                           ATOLL.
   136   0605326A         CONCEPTS                19,430         19,430
                           EXPERIMENTATION
                           PROGRAM.
   138   0605601A         ARMY TEST RANGES       277,646        277,646
                           AND FACILITIES.
   139   0605602A         ARMY TECHNICAL          51,550         51,550
                           TEST
                           INSTRUMENTATION
                           AND TARGETS.
   140   0605604A         SURVIVABILITY/          33,246         33,246
                           LETHALITY
                           ANALYSIS.
   141   0605606A         AIRCRAFT                 4,760          4,760
                           CERTIFICATION.
   142   0605702A         METEOROLOGICAL           8,303          8,303
                           SUPPORT TO
                           RDT&E
                           ACTIVITIES.
   143   0605706A         MATERIEL SYSTEMS        20,403         20,403
                           ANALYSIS.
   144   0605709A         EXPLOITATION OF         10,396         10,396
                           FOREIGN ITEMS.
   145   0605712A         SUPPORT OF              49,337         49,337
                           OPERATIONAL
                           TESTING.
   146   0605716A         ARMY EVALUATION         52,694         52,694
                           CENTER.
   147   0605718A         ARMY MODELING &            938            938
                           SIM X-CMD
                           COLLABORATION &
                           INTEG.
   148   0605801A         PROGRAMWIDE             60,319         60,319
                           ACTIVITIES.
   149   0605803A         TECHNICAL               28,478         28,478
                           INFORMATION
                           ACTIVITIES.
   150   0605805A         MUNITIONS               32,604         24,604
                           STANDARDIZATION
                           , EFFECTIVENESS
                           AND SAFETY.
         ...............      Program                           [-8,000]
                              reduction.
   151   0605857A         ENVIRONMENTAL            3,186          3,186
                           QUALITY
                           TECHNOLOGY MGMT
                           SUPPORT.
   152   0605898A         MANAGEMENT HQ--         48,955         48,955
                           R&D.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,027,542      1,019,542
                             RDT&E
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   154   0603778A         MLRS PRODUCT            18,397         18,397
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   155   0603813A         TRACTOR PULL....         9,461          9,461
   156   0607131A         WEAPONS AND              4,945          4,945
                           MUNITIONS
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   157   0607133A         TRACTOR SMOKE...         7,569          7,569
   158   0607135A         APACHE PRODUCT          69,862         69,862
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   159   0607136A         BLACKHAWK               66,653         66,653
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   160   0607137A         CHINOOK PRODUCT         37,407         37,407
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   161   0607138A         FIXED WING               1,151          1,151
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   162   0607139A         IMPROVED TURBINE        51,164         51,164
                           ENGINE PROGRAM.
   163   0607140A         EMERGING                 2,481          2,481
                           TECHNOLOGIES
                           FROM NIE.
   164   0607141A         LOGISTICS                1,673          1,673
                           AUTOMATION.
   166   0607665A         FAMILY OF               13,237         13,237
                           BIOMETRICS.
   167   0607865A         PATRIOT PRODUCT        105,816        105,816
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   169   0202429A         AEROSTAT JOINT          40,565         40,565
                           PROJECT--COCOM
                           EXERCISE.
   171   0203728A         JOINT AUTOMATED         35,719         35,719
                           DEEP OPERATION
                           COORDINATION
                           SYSTEM (JADOCS).
   172   0203735A         COMBAT VEHICLE         257,167        354,167
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Stryker                           [97,000]
                              Lethality
                              Upgrades.
   173   0203740A         MANEUVER CONTROL        15,445         15,445
                           SYSTEM.
   175   0203752A         AIRCRAFT ENGINE            364            364
                           COMPONENT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   176   0203758A         DIGITIZATION....         4,361          4,361
   177   0203801A         MISSILE/AIR              3,154          3,154
                           DEFENSE PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   178   0203802A         OTHER MISSILE           35,951         35,951
                           PRODUCT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAMS.
   179   0203808A         TRACTOR CARD....        34,686         34,686
   180   0205402A         INTEGRATED BASE         10,750         10,750
                           DEFENSE--OPERAT
                           IONAL SYSTEM
                           DEV.
   181   0205410A         MATERIALS                  402            402
                           HANDLING
                           EQUIPMENT.
   183   0205456A         LOWER TIER AIR          64,159         64,159
                           AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE (AMD)
                           SYSTEM.
   184   0205778A         GUIDED MULTIPLE-        17,527         17,527
                           LAUNCH ROCKET
                           SYSTEM (GMLRS).
   185   0208053A         JOINT TACTICAL          20,515         20,515
                           GROUND SYSTEM.
   187   0303028A         SECURITY AND            12,368         12,368
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   188   0303140A         INFORMATION             31,154         31,154
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   189   0303141A         GLOBAL COMBAT           12,274         12,274
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   190   0303142A         SATCOM GROUND            9,355          9,355
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           (SPACE).
   191   0303150A         WWMCCS/GLOBAL            7,053          7,053
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM.
   193   0305179A         INTEGRATED                 750            750
                           BROADCAST
                           SERVICE (IBS).
   194   0305204A         TACTICAL                13,225         13,225
                           UNMANNED AERIAL
                           VEHICLES.
   195   0305206A         AIRBORNE                22,870         22,870
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
   196   0305208A         DISTRIBUTED             25,592         25,592
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   199   0305233A         RQ-7 UAV........         7,297          7,297
   201   0310349A         WIN-T INCREMENT          3,800          3,800
                           2--INITIAL
                           NETWORKING.
   202   0708045A         END ITEM                48,442         48,442
                           INDUSTRIAL
                           PREPAREDNESS
                           ACTIVITIES.
  202A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED               4,536          4,536
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,129,297      1,226,297
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL           6,924,959      7,121,647
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, ARMY.
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL,
                           NAVY
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601103N         UNIVERSITY             116,196        134,196
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............      Defense                           [18,000]
                              University
                              Research
                              Instumentati
                              on Program
                              increase.
   002   0601152N         IN-HOUSE                19,126         19,126
                           LABORATORY
                           INDEPENDENT
                           RESEARCH.
   003   0601153N         DEFENSE RESEARCH       451,606        506,606
                           SCIENCES.
         ...............      Basic                             [55,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            586,928        659,928
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602114N         POWER PROJECTION        68,723         68,723
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   005   0602123N         FORCE PROTECTION       154,963        154,963
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   006   0602131M         MARINE CORPS            49,001         49,001
                           LANDING FORCE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   007   0602235N         COMMON PICTURE          42,551         42,551
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   008   0602236N         WARFIGHTER              45,056         45,056
                           SUSTAINMENT
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   009   0602271N         ELECTROMAGNETIC        115,051        115,051
                           SYSTEMS APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   010   0602435N         OCEAN                   42,252         62,252
                           WARFIGHTING
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
         ...............      Service Life                      [20,000]
                              Extension
                              for the AGOR
                              Ship.
   011   0602651M         JOINT NON-LETHAL         6,119          6,119
                           WEAPONS APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   012   0602747N         UNDERSEA WARFARE       123,750        142,350
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
         ...............      Accelerate                        [18,600]
                              undersea
                              warfare
                              research.
   013   0602750N         FUTURE NAVAL           179,686        179,686
                           CAPABILITIES
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   014   0602782N         MINE AND                37,418         37,418
                           EXPEDITIONARY
                           WARFARE APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            864,570        903,170
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   015   0603114N         POWER PROJECTION        37,093         37,093
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   016   0603123N         FORCE PROTECTION        38,044         38,044
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   017   0603271N         ELECTROMAGNETIC         34,899         34,899
                           SYSTEMS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   018   0603640M         USMC ADVANCED          137,562        137,562
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATION
                           (ATD).
   019   0603651M         JOINT NON-LETHAL        12,745         12,745
                           WEAPONS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   020   0603673N         FUTURE NAVAL           258,860        258,860
                           CAPABILITIES
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   021   0603680N         MANUFACTURING           57,074         57,074
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   022   0603729N         WARFIGHTER               4,807          4,807
                           PROTECTION
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   023   0603747N         UNDERSEA WARFARE        13,748         13,748
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0603758N         NAVY WARFIGHTING        66,041         66,041
                           EXPERIMENTS AND
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   025   0603782N         MINE AND                 1,991          1,991
                           EXPEDITIONARY
                           WARFARE
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            662,864        662,864
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   026   0603207N         AIR/OCEAN               41,832         41,832
                           TACTICAL
                           APPLICATIONS.
   027   0603216N         AVIATION                 5,404          5,404
                           SURVIVABILITY.
   028   0603237N         DEPLOYABLE JOINT         3,086          3,086
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL.
   029   0603251N         AIRCRAFT SYSTEMS        11,643         11,643
   030   0603254N         ASW SYSTEMS              5,555          5,555
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   031   0603261N         TACTICAL                 3,087          3,087
                           AIRBORNE
                           RECONNAISSANCE.
   032   0603382N         ADVANCED COMBAT          1,636          1,636
                           SYSTEMS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   033   0603502N         SURFACE AND            118,588        113,588
                           SHALLOW WATER
                           MINE
                           COUNTERMEASURES.
         ...............      LDUUV                             [-5,000]
                              development
                              growth.
   034   0603506N         SURFACE SHIP            77,385         77,385
                           TORPEDO DEFENSE.
   035   0603512N         CARRIER SYSTEMS          8,348          8,348
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   036   0603525N         PILOT FISH......       123,246        123,246
   037   0603527N         RETRACT LARCH...        28,819         28,819
   038   0603536N         RETRACT JUNIPER.       112,678        112,678
   039   0603542N         RADIOLOGICAL               710            710
                           CONTROL.
   040   0603553N         SURFACE ASW.....         1,096          1,096
   041   0603561N         ADVANCED                87,160         93,360
                           SUBMARINE
                           SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Accelerate                        [10,000]
                              unmanned
                              underwater
                              vehicle
                              development.
         ...............      Universal                         [-3,800]
                              launch and
                              recovery
                              module
                              unfunded
                              outyear tail.
   042   0603562N         SUBMARINE               10,371         10,371
                           TACTICAL
                           WARFARE SYSTEMS.
   043   0603563N         SHIP CONCEPT            11,888         11,888
                           ADVANCED DESIGN.
   044   0603564N         SHIP PRELIMINARY         4,332          4,332
                           DESIGN &
                           FEASIBILITY
                           STUDIES.
   045   0603570N         ADVANCED NUCLEAR       482,040        482,040
                           POWER SYSTEMS.
   046   0603573N         ADVANCED SURFACE        25,904         25,904
                           MACHINERY
                           SYSTEMS.
   047   0603576N         CHALK EAGLE.....       511,802        511,802
   048   0603581N         LITTORAL COMBAT        118,416        118,416
                           SHIP (LCS).
   049   0603582N         COMBAT SYSTEM           35,901         35,901
                           INTEGRATION.
   050   0603595N         OHIO REPLACEMENT       971,393        971,393
   051   0603596N         LCS MISSION            206,149        206,149
                           MODULES.
   052   0603597N         AUTOMATED TEST           8,000          8,000
                           AND RE-TEST
                           (ATRT).
   053   0603609N         CONVENTIONAL             7,678          7,678
                           MUNITIONS.
   054   0603611M         MARINE CORPS           219,082        219,082
                           ASSAULT
                           VEHICLES.
   055   0603635M         MARINE CORPS               623            623
                           GROUND COMBAT/
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
   056   0603654N         JOINT SERVICE           18,260         18,260
                           EXPLOSIVE
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   057   0603658N         COOPERATIVE             76,247         76,247
                           ENGAGEMENT.
   058   0603713N         OCEAN                    4,520          4,520
                           ENGINEERING
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   059   0603721N         ENVIRONMENTAL           20,711         20,711
                           PROTECTION.
   060   0603724N         NAVY ENERGY             47,761         47,761
                           PROGRAM.
   061   0603725N         FACILITIES               5,226          5,226
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   062   0603734N         CHALK CORAL.....       182,771        182,771
   063   0603739N         NAVY LOGISTIC            3,866          3,866
                           PRODUCTIVITY.
   064   0603746N         RETRACT MAPLE...       360,065        360,065
   065   0603748N         LINK PLUMERIA...       237,416        237,416
   066   0603751N         RETRACT ELM.....        37,944         37,944
   067   0603764N         LINK EVERGREEN..        47,312         47,312
   068   0603787N         SPECIAL                 17,408         17,408
                           PROCESSES.
   069   0603790N         NATO RESEARCH            9,359          9,359
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   070   0603795N         LAND ATTACK                887            887
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   071   0603851M         JOINT NON-LETHAL        29,448         29,448
                           WEAPONS TESTING.
   072   0603860N         JOINT PRECISION         91,479         91,479
                           APPROACH AND
                           LANDING
                           SYSTEMS--DEM/
                           VAL.
   073   0603925N         DIRECTED ENERGY         67,360         67,360
                           AND ELECTRIC
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   074   0604112N         GERALD R. FORD          48,105        127,205
                           CLASS NUCLEAR
                           AIRCRAFT
                           CARRIER (CVN
                           78--80).
         ...............      Full ship                         [79,100]
                              shock trials
                              for CVN-78.
   075   0604122N         REMOTE                  20,089         20,089
                           MINEHUNTING
                           SYSTEM (RMS).
   076   0604272N         TACTICAL AIR            18,969         18,969
                           DIRECTIONAL
                           INFRARED
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (TADIRCM).
   077   0604279N         ASE SELF-                7,874          7,874
                           PROTECTION
                           OPTIMIZATION.
   078   0604292N         MH-XX...........         5,298          5,298
   079   0604454N         LX (R)..........        46,486         75,486
         ...............      LX(R)                             [29,000]
                              Acceleration.
   080   0604653N         JOINT COUNTER            3,817          3,817
                           RADIO
                           CONTROLLED IED
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (JCREW).
   081   0604659N         PRECISION STRIKE         9,595          9,595
                           WEAPONS
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   082   0604707N         SPACE AND               29,581         25,246
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (SEW)
                           ARCHITECTURE/
                           ENGINEERING
                           SUPPORT.
         ...............      Maritime                          [-4,335]
                              concept
                              generation
                              and
                              development
                              growth.
   083   0604786N         OFFENSIVE ANTI-        285,849        285,849
                           SURFACE WARFARE
                           WEAPON
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   084   0605812M         JOINT LIGHT             36,656         36,656
                           TACTICAL
                           VEHICLE (JLTV)
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           MANUFACTURING
                           DEVELOPMENT PH.
   085   0303354N         ASW SYSTEMS              9,835          9,835
                           DEVELOPMENT--MI
                           P.
   086   0304270N         ELECTRONIC                 580            580
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT--MI
                           P.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          5,024,626      5,129,591
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   087   0603208N         TRAINING SYSTEM         21,708         21,708
                           AIRCRAFT.
   088   0604212N         OTHER HELO              11,101         11,101
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   089   0604214N         AV-8B AIRCRAFT--        39,878         39,878
                           ENG DEV.
   090   0604215N         STANDARDS               53,059         53,059
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   091   0604216N         MULTI-MISSION           21,358         21,358
                           HELICOPTER
                           UPGRADE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   092   0604218N         AIR/OCEAN                4,515          4,515
                           EQUIPMENT
                           ENGINEERING.
   093   0604221N         P-3                      1,514          1,514
                           MODERNIZATION
                           PROGRAM.
   094   0604230N         WARFARE SUPPORT          5,875          5,875
                           SYSTEM.
   095   0604231N         TACTICAL COMMAND        81,553         81,553
                           SYSTEM.
   096   0604234N         ADVANCED HAWKEYE       272,149        272,149
   097   0604245N         H-1 UPGRADES....        27,235         27,235
   098   0604261N         ACOUSTIC SEARCH         35,763         35,763
                           SENSORS.
   099   0604262N         V-22A...........        87,918         87,918
   100   0604264N         AIR CREW SYSTEMS        12,679         12,679
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   101   0604269N         EA-18...........        56,921         56,921
   102   0604270N         ELECTRONIC              23,685         23,685
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   103   0604273N         EXECUTIVE HELO         507,093        507,093
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   104   0604274N         NEXT GENERATION        411,767        411,767
                           JAMMER (NGJ).
   105   0604280N         JOINT TACTICAL          25,071         25,071
                           RADIO SYSTEM--
                           NAVY (JTRS-
                           NAVY).
   106   0604307N         SURFACE                443,433        433,433
                           COMBATANT
                           COMBAT SYSTEM
                           ENGINEERING.
         ...............      Aegis                            [-10,000]
                              development
                              support
                              growth.
   107   0604311N         LPD-17 CLASS               747            747
                           SYSTEMS
                           INTEGRATION.
   108   0604329N         SMALL DIAMETER          97,002         97,002
                           BOMB (SDB).
   109   0604366N         STANDARD MISSILE       129,649        129,649
                           IMPROVEMENTS.
   110   0604373N         AIRBORNE MCM....        11,647         11,647
   111   0604376M         MARINE AIR               2,778          2,778
                           GROUND TASK
                           FORCE (MAGTF)
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (EW)
                           FOR AVIATION.
   112   0604378N         NAVAL INTEGRATED        23,695         23,695
                           FIRE CONTROL--
                           COUNTER AIR
                           SYSTEMS
                           ENGINEERING.
   113   0604404N         UNMANNED CARRIER       134,708        484,708
                           LAUNCHED
                           AIRBORNE
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           AND STRIKE
                           (UCLASS) SYSTEM.
         ...............      Competitive                      [300,000]
                              air vehicle
                              risk
                              reduction
                              activities.
         ...............      Government                        [50,000]
                              and industry
                              source
                              selection
                              preparation.
   114   0604501N         ADVANCED ABOVE          43,914         43,914
                           WATER SENSORS.
   115   0604503N         SSN-688 AND            109,908        109,908
                           TRIDENT
                           MODERNIZATION.
   116   0604504N         AIR CONTROL.....        57,928         57,928
   117   0604512N         SHIPBOARD              120,217        120,217
                           AVIATION
                           SYSTEMS.
   118   0604522N         AIR AND MISSILE        241,754        241,754
                           DEFENSE RADAR
                           (AMDR) SYSTEM.
   119   0604558N         NEW DESIGN SSN..       122,556        122,556
   120   0604562N         SUBMARINE               48,213         60,213
                           TACTICAL
                           WARFARE SYSTEM.
         ...............      Accelerate                        [12,000]
                              submarine
                              combat and
                              weapon
                              system
                              modernizatio
                              n.
   121   0604567N         SHIP CONTRACT           49,712         49,712
                           DESIGN/ LIVE
                           FIRE T&E.
   122   0604574N         NAVY TACTICAL            4,096          4,096
                           COMPUTER
                           RESOURCES.
   123   0604580N         VIRGINIA PAYLOAD       167,719        167,719
                           MODULE (VPM).
   124   0604601N         MINE DEVELOPMENT        15,122         15,122
   125   0604610N         LIGHTWEIGHT             33,738         33,738
                           TORPEDO
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   126   0604654N         JOINT SERVICE            8,123          8,123
                           EXPLOSIVE
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   127   0604703N         PERSONNEL,               7,686          7,686
                           TRAINING,
                           SIMULATION, AND
                           HUMAN FACTORS.
   128   0604727N         JOINT STANDOFF             405            405
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
   129   0604755N         SHIP SELF              153,836        153,836
                           DEFENSE (DETECT
                           & CONTROL).
   130   0604756N         SHIP SELF               99,619         99,619
                           DEFENSE
                           (ENGAGE: HARD
                           KILL).
   131   0604757N         SHIP SELF              116,798        116,798
                           DEFENSE
                           (ENGAGE: SOFT
                           KILL/EW).
   132   0604761N         INTELLIGENCE             4,353          4,353
                           ENGINEERING.
   133   0604771N         MEDICAL                  9,443          9,443
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   134   0604777N         NAVIGATION/ID           32,469         32,469
                           SYSTEM.
   135   0604800M         JOINT STRIKE           537,901        537,901
                           FIGHTER (JSF)--
                           EMD.
   136   0604800N         JOINT STRIKE           504,736        504,736
                           FIGHTER (JSF)--
                           EMD.
   137   0604810M         JOINT STRIKE            59,265         20,800
                           FIGHTER FOLLOW
                           ON DEVELOPMENT--
                           MARINE CORPS.
         ...............      Program                          [-38,465]
                              delay.
   138   0604810N         JOINT STRIKE            47,579         21,244
                           FIGHTER FOLLOW
                           ON DEVELOPMENT--
                           NAVY.
         ...............      Program                          [-26,335]
                              delay.
   139   0605013M         INFORMATION              5,914          5,914
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   140   0605013N         INFORMATION             89,711         89,711
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   141   0605212N         CH-53K RDTE.....       632,092        632,092
   142   0605220N         SHIP TO SHORE            7,778          7,778
                           CONNECTOR (SSC).
   143   0605450N         JOINT AIR-TO-           25,898         25,898
                           GROUND MISSILE
                           (JAGM).
   144   0605500N         MULTI-MISSION          247,929        247,929
                           MARITIME
                           AIRCRAFT (MMA).
   145   0204202N         DDG-1000........       103,199        103,199
   146   0304231N         TACTICAL COMMAND           998            998
                           SYSTEM--MIP.
   147   0304785N         TACTICAL                17,785         17,785
                           CRYPTOLOGIC
                           SYSTEMS.
   148   0305124N         SPECIAL                 35,905         35,905
                           APPLICATIONS
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          6,308,800      6,596,000
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   149   0604256N         THREAT SIMULATOR        30,769         30,769
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   150   0604258N         TARGET SYSTEMS         112,606        112,606
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   151   0604759N         MAJOR T&E               61,234         61,234
                           INVESTMENT.
   152   0605126N         JOINT THEATER            6,995          6,995
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE
                           ORGANIZATION.
   153   0605152N         STUDIES AND              4,011          4,011
                           ANALYSIS
                           SUPPORT--NAVY.
   154   0605154N         CENTER FOR NAVAL        48,563         48,563
                           ANALYSES.
   155   0605285N         NEXT GENERATION          5,000          5,000
                           FIGHTER.
   157   0605804N         TECHNICAL                  925            925
                           INFORMATION
                           SERVICES.
   158   0605853N         MANAGEMENT,             78,143         78,143
                           TECHNICAL &
                           INTERNATIONAL
                           SUPPORT.
   159   0605856N         STRATEGIC                3,258          3,258
                           TECHNICAL
                           SUPPORT.
   160   0605861N         RDT&E SCIENCE           76,948         76,948
                           AND TECHNOLOGY
                           MANAGEMENT.
   161   0605863N         RDT&E SHIP AND         132,122        132,122
                           AIRCRAFT
                           SUPPORT.
   162   0605864N         TEST AND               351,912        351,912
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   163   0605865N         OPERATIONAL TEST        17,985         17,985
                           AND EVALUATION
                           CAPABILITY.
   164   0605866N         NAVY SPACE AND           5,316          5,316
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE (SEW)
                           SUPPORT.
   165   0605867N         SEW SURVEILLANCE/        6,519          6,519
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SUPPORT.
   166   0605873M         MARINE CORPS            13,649         13,649
                           PROGRAM WIDE
                           SUPPORT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            955,955        955,955
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   174   0101221N         STRATEGIC SUB &        107,039        107,039
                           WEAPONS SYSTEM
                           SUPPORT.
   175   0101224N         SSBN SECURITY           46,506         46,506
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
   176   0101226N         SUBMARINE                3,900          4,700
                           ACOUSTIC
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Accelerate                           [800]
                              combat rapid
                              attack
                              weapon.
   177   0101402N         NAVY STRATEGIC          16,569         16,569
                           COMMUNICATIONS.
   178   0203761N         RAPID TECHNOLOGY        18,632         11,132
                           TRANSITION
                           (RTT).
         ...............      TIPS program                      [-7,500]
                              growth.
   179   0204136N         F/A-18 SQUADRONS       133,265        133,265
   181   0204163N         FLEET                   62,867         51,067
                           TELECOMMUNICATI
                           ONS (TACTICAL).
         ...............      Joint aerial                     [-11,800]
                              layer
                              network
                              growth.
   182   0204228N         SURFACE SUPPORT.        36,045         36,045
   183   0204229N         TOMAHAWK AND            25,228         25,228
                           TOMAHAWK
                           MISSION
                           PLANNING CENTER
                           (TMPC).
   184   0204311N         INTEGRATED              54,218         54,218
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM.
   185   0204413N         AMPHIBIOUS              11,335         11,335
                           TACTICAL
                           SUPPORT UNITS
                           (DISPLACEMENT
                           CRAFT).
   186   0204460M         GROUND/AIR TASK         80,129         65,629
                           ORIENTED RADAR
                           (G/ATOR).
         ...............      Block II                         [-14,500]
                              test assets
                              early to
                              need.
   187   0204571N         CONSOLIDATED            39,087         39,087
                           TRAINING
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   188   0204574N         CRYPTOLOGIC              1,915          1,915
                           DIRECT SUPPORT.
   189   0204575N         ELECTRONIC              46,609         46,609
                           WARFARE (EW)
                           READINESS
                           SUPPORT.
   190   0205601N         HARM IMPROVEMENT        52,708         34,708
         ...............      AARGM                            [-18,000]
                              extended
                              range
                              program
                              growth.
   191   0205604N         TACTICAL DATA          149,997        149,997
                           LINKS.
   192   0205620N         SURFACE ASW             24,460         24,460
                           COMBAT SYSTEM
                           INTEGRATION.
   193   0205632N         MK-48 ADCAP.....        42,206         47,706
         ...............      Accelerate                         [5,500]
                              torpedo
                              upgrades.
   194   0205633N         AVIATION               117,759        117,759
                           IMPROVEMENTS.
   195   0205675N         OPERATIONAL            101,323        101,323
                           NUCLEAR POWER
                           SYSTEMS.
   196   0206313M         MARINE CORPS            67,763         67,763
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS.
   197   0206335M         COMMON AVIATION         13,431         13,431
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM
                           (CAC2S).
   198   0206623M         MARINE CORPS            56,769         56,769
                           GROUND COMBAT/
                           SUPPORTING ARMS
                           SYSTEMS.
   199   0206624M         MARINE CORPS            20,729         20,729
                           COMBAT SERVICES
                           SUPPORT.
   200   0206625M         USMC                    13,152         13,152
                           INTELLIGENCE/
                           ELECTRONIC
                           WARFARE SYSTEMS
                           (MIP).
   201   0206629M         AMPHIBIOUS              48,535         48,535
                           ASSAULT VEHICLE.
   202   0207161N         TACTICAL AIM            76,016         76,016
                           MISSILES.
   203   0207163N         ADVANCED MEDIUM         32,172         32,172
                           RANGE AIR-TO-
                           AIR MISSILE
                           (AMRAAM).
   208   0303109N         SATELLITE               53,239         53,239
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           (SPACE).
   209   0303138N         CONSOLIDATED            21,677         21,677
                           AFLOAT NETWORK
                           ENTERPRISE
                           SERVICES
                           (CANES).
   210   0303140N         INFORMATION             28,102         28,102
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   211   0303150M         WWMCCS/GLOBAL              294            294
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL SYSTEM.
   213   0305160N         NAVY                       599            599
                           METEOROLOGICAL
                           AND OCEAN
                           SENSORS-SPACE
                           (METOC).
   214   0305192N         MILITARY                 6,207          6,207
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           PROGRAM (MIP)
                           ACTIVITIES.
   215   0305204N         TACTICAL                 8,550          8,550
                           UNMANNED AERIAL
                           VEHICLES.
   216   0305205N         UAS INTEGRATION         41,831         41,831
                           AND
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y.
   217   0305208M         DISTRIBUTED              1,105          1,105
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   218   0305208N         DISTRIBUTED             33,149         33,149
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   219   0305220N         RQ-4 UAV........       227,188        227,188
   220   0305231N         MQ-8 UAV........        52,770         52,770
   221   0305232M         RQ-11 UAV.......           635            635
   222   0305233N         RQ-7 UAV........           688            688
   223   0305234N         SMALL (LEVEL 0)          4,647          4,647
                           TACTICAL UAS
                           (STUASL0).
   224   0305239M         RQ-21A..........         6,435          6,435
   225   0305241N         MULTI-                  49,145         49,145
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           SENSOR
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   226   0305242M         UNMANNED AERIAL          9,246          9,246
                           SYSTEMS (UAS)
                           PAYLOADS (MIP).
   227   0305421N         RQ-4                   150,854        150,854
                           MODERNIZATION.
   228   0308601N         MODELING AND             4,757          4,757
                           SIMULATION
                           SUPPORT.
   229   0702207N         DEPOT                   24,185         24,185
                           MAINTENANCE
                           (NON-IF).
   231   0708730N         MARITIME                 4,321          4,321
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (MARITECH).
  231A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED           1,252,185      1,252,185
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,482,173      3,436,673
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          17,885,916     18,344,181
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, NAVY.
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL, AF
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601102F         DEFENSE RESEARCH       329,721        374,721
                           SCIENCES.
         ...............      Basic                             [45,000]
                              research
                              program
                              increase.
   002   0601103F         UNIVERSITY             141,754        141,754
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
   003   0601108F         HIGH ENERGY             13,778         13,778
                           LASER RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            485,253        530,253
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   004   0602102F         MATERIALS.......       125,234        125,234
   005   0602201F         AEROSPACE              123,438        123,438
                           VEHICLE
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   006   0602202F         HUMAN                  100,530        100,530
                           EFFECTIVENESS
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   007   0602203F         AEROSPACE              182,326        182,326
                           PROPULSION.
   008   0602204F         AEROSPACE              147,291        147,291
                           SENSORS.
   009   0602601F         SPACE TECHNOLOGY       116,122        116,122
   010   0602602F         CONVENTIONAL            99,851         99,851
                           MUNITIONS.
   011   0602605F         DIRECTED ENERGY        115,604        115,604
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   012   0602788F         DOMINANT               164,909        164,909
                           INFORMATION
                           SCIENCES AND
                           METHODS.
   013   0602890F         HIGH ENERGY             42,037         42,037
                           LASER RESEARCH.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,217,342      1,217,342
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   014   0603112F         ADVANCED                37,665         47,665
                           MATERIALS FOR
                           WEAPON SYSTEMS.
         ...............      Metals                            [10,000]
                              Affordabilit
                              y Initiative.
   015   0603199F         SUSTAINMENT             18,378         18,378
                           SCIENCE AND
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (S&T).
   016   0603203F         ADVANCED                42,183         42,183
                           AEROSPACE
                           SENSORS.
   017   0603211F         AEROSPACE              100,733        100,733
                           TECHNOLOGY DEV/
                           DEMO.
   018   0603216F         AEROSPACE              168,821        168,821
                           PROPULSION AND
                           POWER
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   019   0603270F         ELECTRONIC              47,032         47,032
                           COMBAT
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   020   0603401F         ADVANCED                54,897         54,897
                           SPACECRAFT
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   021   0603444F         MAUI SPACE              12,853         12,853
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM (MSSS).
   022   0603456F         HUMAN                   25,448         25,448
                           EFFECTIVENESS
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   023   0603601F         CONVENTIONAL            48,536         48,536
                           WEAPONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   024   0603605F         ADVANCED WEAPONS        30,195         30,195
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   025   0603680F         MANUFACTURING           42,630         52,630
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Maturation                        [10,000]
                              of advanced
                              manufacturin
                              g for low-
                              cost
                              sustainment.
   026   0603788F         BATTLESPACE             46,414         46,414
                           KNOWLEDGE
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            675,785        695,785
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           PROTOTYPES
   027   0603260F         INTELLIGENCE             5,032          5,032
                           ADVANCED
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   029   0603438F         SPACE CONTROL            4,070          4,070
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   030   0603742F         COMBAT                  21,790         21,790
                           IDENTIFICATION
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   031   0603790F         NATO RESEARCH            4,736          4,736
                           AND DEVELOPMENT.
   033   0603830F         SPACE SECURITY          30,771         30,771
                           AND DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM.
   034   0603851F         INTERCONTINENTAL        39,765         39,765
                           BALLISTIC
                           MISSILE--DEM/
                           VAL.
   036   0604015F         LONG RANGE           1,246,228        786,228
                           STRIKE.
         ...............      Delayed EMD                     [-460,000]
                              contract
                              award.
   037   0604317F         TECHNOLOGY               3,512          8,512
                           TRANSFER.
         ...............      Technology                         [5,000]
                              transfer
                              program
                              increase.
   038   0604327F         HARD AND DEEPLY         54,637         54,637
                           BURIED TARGET
                           DEFEAT SYSTEM
                           (HDBTDS)
                           PROGRAM.
   040   0604422F         WEATHER SYSTEM          76,108         56,108
                           FOLLOW-ON.
         ...............      Unjustified                      [-20,000]
                              increase and
                              analysis of
                              alternatives.
   044   0604857F         OPERATIONALLY            6,457         19,957
                           RESPONSIVE
                           SPACE.
         ...............      SSA,                              [13,500]
                              Weather, or
                              Launch
                              Activities.
   045   0604858F         TECH TRANSITION        246,514        246,514
                           PROGRAM.
   046   0605230F         GROUND BASED            75,166         75,166
                           STRATEGIC
                           DETERRENT.
   049   0207110F         NEXT GENERATION          8,830          8,830
                           AIR DOMINANCE.
   050   0207455F         THREE                   14,939         14,939
                           DIMENSIONAL
                           LONG-RANGE
                           RADAR (3DELRR).
   051   0305164F         NAVSTAR GLOBAL         142,288        142,288
                           POSITIONING
                           SYSTEM (USER
                           EQUIPMENT)
                           (SPACE).
   052   0306250F         CYBER OPERATIONS        81,732         96,732
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Increase                          [15,000]
                              USCC Cyber
                              Operations
                              Technology
                              Development.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          2,062,575      1,616,075
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT &
                           DEMONSTRATION
   055   0604270F         ELECTRONIC                 929            929
                           WARFARE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   056   0604281F         TACTICAL DATA           60,256         60,256
                           NETWORKS
                           ENTERPRISE.
   057   0604287F         PHYSICAL                 5,973          5,973
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT.
   058   0604329F         SMALL DIAMETER          32,624         32,624
                           BOMB (SDB)--EMD.
   059   0604421F         COUNTERSPACE            24,208         24,208
                           SYSTEMS.
   060   0604425F         SPACE SITUATION         32,374         32,374
                           AWARENESS
                           SYSTEMS.
   061   0604426F         SPACE FENCE.....       243,909        243,909
   062   0604429F         AIRBORNE                 8,358          8,358
                           ELECTRONIC
                           ATTACK.
   063   0604441F         SPACE BASED            292,235        292,235
                           INFRARED SYSTEM
                           (SBIRS) HIGH
                           EMD.
   064   0604602F         ARMAMENT/               40,154         40,154
                           ORDNANCE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   065   0604604F         SUBMUNITIONS....         2,506          2,506
   066   0604617F         AGILE COMBAT            57,678         57,678
                           SUPPORT.
   067   0604706F         LIFE SUPPORT             8,187          8,187
                           SYSTEMS.
   068   0604735F         COMBAT TRAINING         15,795         15,795
                           RANGES.
   069   0604800F         F-35--EMD.......       589,441        589,441
   071   0604853F         EVOLVED                 84,438        184,438
                           EXPENDABLE
                           LAUNCH VEHICLE
                           PROGRAM
                           (SPACE)--EMD.
         ...............      EELV                             [100,000]
                              Program--Roc
                              ket
                              Propulsion
                              System
                              Development.
   072   0604932F         LONG RANGE              36,643         36,643
                           STANDOFF WEAPON.
   073   0604933F         ICBM FUZE              142,551        142,551
                           MODERNIZATION.
   074   0605213F         F-22                   140,640        140,640
                           MODERNIZATION
                           INCREMENT 3.2B.
   075   0605214F         GROUND ATTACK            3,598          3,598
                           WEAPONS FUZE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   076   0605221F         KC-46...........       602,364        402,364
         ...............      Program                         [-200,000]
                              decrease.
   077   0605223F         ADVANCED PILOT          11,395         11,395
                           TRAINING.
   078   0605229F         CSAR HH-60             156,085        156,085
                           RECAPITALIZATIO
                           N.
   080   0605431F         ADVANCED EHF           228,230        228,230
                           MILSATCOM
                           (SPACE).
   081   0605432F         POLAR MILSATCOM         72,084         72,084
                           (SPACE).
   082   0605433F         WIDEBAND GLOBAL         56,343         52,343
                           SATCOM (SPACE).
         ...............      Excess to                         [-4,000]
                              need.
   083   0605458F         AIR & SPACE OPS         47,629         47,629
                           CENTER 10.2
                           RDT&E.
   084   0605931F         B-2 DEFENSIVE          271,961        271,961
                           MANAGEMENT
                           SYSTEM.
   085   0101125F         NUCLEAR WEAPONS        212,121        212,121
                           MODERNIZATION.
   086   0207171F         F-15 EPAWSS.....       186,481        186,481
   087   0207701F         FULL COMBAT             18,082         18,082
                           MISSION
                           TRAINING.
   088   0305176F         COMBAT SURVIVOR            993            993
                           EVADER LOCATOR.
   089   0307581F         NEXTGEN JSTARS..        44,343         44,343
   091   0401319F         PRESIDENTIAL           102,620        102,620
                           AIRCRAFT
                           REPLACEMENT
                           (PAR).
   092   0701212F         AUTOMATED TEST          14,563         14,563
                           SYSTEMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,847,791      3,743,791
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT &
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   093   0604256F         THREAT SIMULATOR        23,844         23,844
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   094   0604759F         MAJOR T&E               68,302         73,302
                           INVESTMENT.
         ...............      Airborne                           [5,000]
                              Sensor Data
                              Correlation
                              Project.
   095   0605101F         RAND PROJECT AIR        34,918         34,918
                           FORCE.
   097   0605712F         INITIAL                 10,476         10,476
                           OPERATIONAL
                           TEST &
                           EVALUATION.
   098   0605807F         TEST AND               673,908        673,908
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   099   0605860F         ROCKET SYSTEMS          21,858         21,858
                           LAUNCH PROGRAM
                           (SPACE).
   100   0605864F         SPACE TEST              28,228         28,228
                           PROGRAM (STP).
   101   0605976F         FACILITIES              40,518         40,518
                           RESTORATION AND
                           MODERNIZATION--
                           TEST AND
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   102   0605978F         FACILITIES              27,895         27,895
                           SUSTAINMENT--TE
                           ST AND
                           EVALUATION
                           SUPPORT.
   103   0606017F         REQUIREMENTS            16,507         16,507
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           MATURATION.
   104   0606116F         SPACE TEST AND          18,997         18,997
                           TRAINING RANGE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   106   0606392F         SPACE AND              185,305        180,305
                           MISSILE CENTER
                           (SMC) CIVILIAN
                           WORKFORCE.
         ...............      Excess to                         [-5,000]
                              need.
   107   0308602F         ENTEPRISE                4,841          4,841
                           INFORMATION
                           SERVICES (EIS).
   108   0702806F         ACQUISITION AND         15,357         15,357
                           MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   109   0804731F         GENERAL SKILL            1,315          1,315
                           TRAINING.
   111   1001004F         INTERNATIONAL            2,315          2,315
                           ACTIVITIES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,174,584      1,174,584
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT
   112   0603423F         GLOBAL                 350,232        350,232
                           POSITIONING
                           SYSTEM III--
                           OPERATIONAL
                           CONTROL SEGMENT.
   113   0604233F         SPECIALIZED             10,465         10,465
                           UNDERGRADUATE
                           FLIGHT TRAINING.
   114   0604445F         WIDE AREA               24,577         24,577
                           SURVEILLANCE.
   117   0605018F         AF INTEGRATED           69,694         29,694
                           PERSONNEL AND
                           PAY SYSTEM (AF-
                           IPPS).
         ...............      Forward                          [-40,000]
                              financing,
                              excluding
                              funding for
                              audit
                              readiness.
   118   0605024F         ANTI-TAMPER             26,718         26,718
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           EXECUTIVE
                           AGENCY.
   119   0605278F         HC/MC-130 RECAP         10,807         10,807
                           RDT&E.
   121   0101113F         B-52 SQUADRONS..        74,520         74,520
   122   0101122F         AIR-LAUNCHED               451            451
                           CRUISE MISSILE
                           (ALCM).
   123   0101126F         B-1B SQUADRONS..         2,245          2,245
   124   0101127F         B-2 SQUADRONS...       108,183        108,183
   125   0101213F         MINUTEMAN              178,929        178,929
                           SQUADRONS.
   126   0101313F         STRAT WAR               28,481         28,481
                           PLANNING
                           SYSTEM--USSTRAT
                           COM.
   127   0101314F         NIGHT FIST--                87             87
                           USSTRATCOM.
   128   0101316F         WORLDWIDE JOINT          5,315          5,315
                           STRATEGIC
                           COMMUNICATIONS.
   131   0105921F         SERVICE SUPPORT          8,090          8,090
                           TO STRATCOM--
                           SPACE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   132   0205219F         MQ-9 UAV........       123,439        123,439
   134   0207131F         A-10 SQUADRONS..                       16,200
         ...............      A-10                              [16,200]
                              restoration:
                              operational
                              flight
                              program
                              development.
   135   0207133F         F-16 SQUADRONS..       148,297        198,297
         ...............      AESA Radar                        [50,000]
                              Integration.
   136   0207134F         F-15E SQUADRONS.       179,283        192,079
         ...............      Transfer                          [12,796]
                              from
                              procurement.
   137   0207136F         MANNED                  14,860         14,860
                           DESTRUCTIVE
                           SUPPRESSION.
   138   0207138F         F-22A SQUADRONS.       262,552        262,552
   139   0207142F         F-35 SQUADRONS..       115,395         53,921
         ...............      Program                          [-61,474]
                              delay.
   140   0207161F         TACTICAL AIM            43,360         43,360
                           MISSILES.
   141   0207163F         ADVANCED MEDIUM         46,160         46,160
                           RANGE AIR-TO-
                           AIR MISSILE
                           (AMRAAM).
   143   0207224F         COMBAT RESCUE              412            412
                           AND RECOVERY.
   144   0207227F         COMBAT RESCUE--            657            657
                           PARARESCUE.
   145   0207247F         AF TENCAP.......        31,428         31,428
   146   0207249F         PRECISION ATTACK         1,105          1,105
                           SYSTEMS
                           PROCUREMENT.
   147   0207253F         COMPASS CALL....        14,249         14,249
   148   0207268F         AIRCRAFT ENGINE        103,942        103,942
                           COMPONENT
                           IMPROVEMENT
                           PROGRAM.
   149   0207325F         JOINT AIR-TO-           12,793         12,793
                           SURFACE
                           STANDOFF
                           MISSILE (JASSM).
   150   0207410F         AIR & SPACE             21,193         21,193
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (AOC).
   151   0207412F         CONTROL AND                559            559
                           REPORTING
                           CENTER (CRC).
   152   0207417F         AIRBORNE WARNING       161,812        161,812
                           AND CONTROL
                           SYSTEM (AWACS).
   153   0207418F         TACTICAL                 6,001          6,001
                           AIRBORNE
                           CONTROL SYSTEMS.
   155   0207431F         COMBAT AIR               7,793          7,793
                           INTELLIGENCE
                           SYSTEM
                           ACTIVITIES.
   156   0207444F         TACTICAL AIR            12,465         12,465
                           CONTROL PARTY-
                           MOD.
   157   0207448F         C2ISR TACTICAL           1,681          1,681
                           DATA LINK.
   159   0207452F         DCAPES..........        16,796         16,796
   161   0207590F         SEEK EAGLE......        21,564         21,564
   162   0207601F         USAF MODELING           24,994         24,994
                           AND SIMULATION.
   163   0207605F         WARGAMING AND            6,035          6,035
                           SIMULATION
                           CENTERS.
   164   0207697F         DISTRIBUTED              4,358          4,358
                           TRAINING AND
                           EXERCISES.
   165   0208006F         MISSION PLANNING        55,835         55,835
                           SYSTEMS.
   167   0208087F         AF OFFENSIVE            12,874         12,874
                           CYBERSPACE
                           OPERATIONS.
   168   0208088F         AF DEFENSIVE             7,681          7,681
                           CYBERSPACE
                           OPERATIONS.
   171   0301017F         GLOBAL SENSOR            5,974          5,974
                           INTEGRATED ON
                           NETWORK (GSIN).
   177   0301400F         SPACE                   13,815         13,815
                           SUPERIORITY
                           INTELLIGENCE.
   178   0302015F         E-4B NATIONAL           80,360         80,360
                           AIRBORNE
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (NAOC).
   179   0303001F         FAMILY OF                3,907          3,907
                           ADVANCED BLOS
                           TERMINALS (FAB-
                           T).
   180   0303131F         MINIMUM                 75,062         75,062
                           ESSENTIAL
                           EMERGENCY
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           NETWORK (MEECN).
   181   0303140F         INFORMATION             46,599         46,599
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   183   0303142F         GLOBAL FORCE             2,470          2,470
                           MANAGEMENT--DAT
                           A INITIATIVE.
   186   0304260F         AIRBORNE SIGINT        112,775        112,775
                           ENTERPRISE.
   189   0305099F         GLOBAL AIR               4,235          4,235
                           TRAFFIC
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (GATM).
   192   0305110F         SATELLITE                7,879          7,879
                           CONTROL NETWORK
                           (SPACE).
   193   0305111F         WEATHER SERVICE.        29,955         29,955
   194   0305114F         AIR TRAFFIC             21,485         21,485
                           CONTROL,
                           APPROACH, AND
                           LANDING SYSTEM
                           (ATCALS).
   195   0305116F         AERIAL TARGETS..         2,515          2,515
   198   0305128F         SECURITY AND               472            472
                           INVESTIGATIVE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   199   0305145F         ARMS CONTROL            12,137         12,137
                           IMPLEMENTATION.
   200   0305146F         DEFENSE JOINT              361            361
                           COUNTERINTELLIG
                           ENCE ACTIVITIES.
   203   0305173F         SPACE AND                3,162          3,162
                           MISSILE TEST
                           AND EVALUATION
                           CENTER.
   204   0305174F         SPACE                    1,543          1,543
                           INNOVATION,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           RAPID
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   205   0305179F         INTEGRATED               7,860          7,860
                           BROADCAST
                           SERVICE (IBS).
   206   0305182F         SPACELIFT RANGE          6,902          6,902
                           SYSTEM (SPACE).
   207   0305202F         DRAGON U-2......        34,471         34,471
   209   0305206F         AIRBORNE                50,154         60,154
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
         ...............      Wide Area                         [10,000]
                              Surveillance
                              Capability.
   210   0305207F         MANNED                  13,245         13,245
                           RECONNAISSANCE
                           SYSTEMS.
   211   0305208F         DISTRIBUTED             22,784         22,784
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   212   0305219F         MQ-1 PREDATOR A            716            716
                           UAV.
   213   0305220F         RQ-4 UAV........       208,053        203,053
         ...............      Program                           [-5,000]
                              delays.
   214   0305221F         NETWORK-CENTRIC         21,587         21,587
                           COLLABORATIVE
                           TARGETING.
   215   0305236F         COMMON DATA LINK        43,986         43,986
                           EXECUTIVE AGENT
                           (CDL EA).
   216   0305238F         NATO AGS........       197,486        138,400
         ...............      Transfer to                      [-59,086]
                              Procurement
                              for NATO
                              AWACS.
   217   0305240F         SUPPORT TO DCGS         28,434         28,434
                           ENTERPRISE.
   218   0305265F         GPS III SPACE          180,902        180,902
                           SEGMENT.
   220   0305614F         JSPOC MISSION           81,911         81,911
                           SYSTEM.
   221   0305881F         RAPID CYBER              3,149          3,149
                           ACQUISITION.
   222   0305913F         NUDET DETECTION         14,447         14,447
                           SYSTEM (SPACE).
   223   0305940F         SPACE SITUATION         20,077         20,077
                           AWARENESS
                           OPERATIONS.
   225   0308699F         SHARED EARLY               853            853
                           WARNING (SEW).
   226   0401115F         C-130 AIRLIFT           33,962         33,962
                           SQUADRON.
   227   0401119F         C-5 AIRLIFT             42,864         37,864
                           SQUADRONS (IF).
         ...............      Forward                           [-5,000]
                              financing.
   228   0401130F         C-17 AIRCRAFT           54,807         54,807
                           (IF).
   229   0401132F         C-130J PROGRAM..        31,010         31,010
   230   0401134F         LARGE AIRCRAFT           6,802          6,802
                           IR
                           COUNTERMEASURES
                           (LAIRCM).
   231   0401219F         KC-10S..........         1,799          1,799
   232   0401314F         OPERATIONAL             48,453         48,453
                           SUPPORT AIRLIFT.
   233   0401318F         CV-22...........        36,576         36,576
   235   0408011F         SPECIAL TACTICS /        7,963          7,963
                            COMBAT CONTROL.
   236   0702207F         DEPOT                    1,525          1,525
                           MAINTENANCE
                           (NON-IF).
   237   0708610F         LOGISTICS              112,676         80,576
                           INFORMATION
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (LOGIT).
         ...............      Program                          [-32,100]
                              growth.
   238   0708611F         SUPPORT SYSTEMS         12,657         12,657
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   239   0804743F         OTHER FLIGHT             1,836          1,836
                           TRAINING.
   240   0808716F         OTHER PERSONNEL            121            121
                           ACTIVITIES.
   241   0901202F         JOINT PERSONNEL          5,911          5,911
                           RECOVERY AGENCY.
   242   0901218F         CIVILIAN                 3,604          3,604
                           COMPENSATION
                           PROGRAM.
   243   0901220F         PERSONNEL                4,598          4,598
                           ADMINISTRATION.
   244   0901226F         AIR FORCE                1,103          1,103
                           STUDIES AND
                           ANALYSIS AGENCY.
   246   0901538F         FINANCIAL              101,840        101,840
                           MANAGEMENT
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
  246A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED          12,780,142     12,780,142
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL         17,010,339     16,896,675
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEMS
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          26,473,669     25,874,505
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, AF.
         ...............
         ...............  RESEARCH,
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           TEST & EVAL, DW
         ...............  BASIC RESEARCH
   001   0601000BR        DTRA BASIC              38,436         38,436
                           RESEARCH
                           INITIATIVE.
   002   0601101E         DEFENSE RESEARCH       333,119        333,119
                           SCIENCES.
   003   0601110D8Z       BASIC RESEARCH          42,022         42,022
                           INITIATIVES.
   004   0601117E         BASIC                   56,544         56,544
                           OPERATIONAL
                           MEDICAL
                           RESEARCH
                           SCIENCE.
   005   0601120D8Z       NATIONAL DEFENSE        49,453         54,453
                           EDUCATION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      STEM program                       [5,000]
                              increase.
   006   0601228D8Z       HISTORICALLY            25,834         35,834
                           BLACK COLLEGES
                           AND
                           UNIVERSITIES/
                           MINORITY
                           INSTITUTIONS.
         ...............      Program                           [10,000]
                              increase.
   007   0601384BP        CHEMICAL AND            46,261         46,261
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            591,669        606,669
                             BASIC
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  APPLIED RESEARCH
   008   0602000D8Z       JOINT MUNITIONS         19,352         19,352
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   009   0602115E         BIOMEDICAL             114,262        114,262
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   010   0602234D8Z       LINCOLN                 51,026         51,026
                           LABORATORY
                           RESEARCH
                           PROGRAM.
   011   0602251D8Z       APPLIED RESEARCH        48,226         48,226
                           FOR THE
                           ADVANCEMENT OF
                           S&T PRIORITIES.
   012   0602303E         INFORMATION &          356,358        356,358
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   014   0602383E         BIOLOGICAL              29,265         29,265
                           WARFARE DEFENSE.
   015   0602384BP        CHEMICAL AND           208,111        208,111
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
   016   0602668D8Z       CYBER SECURITY          13,727         13,727
                           RESEARCH.
   018   0602702E         TACTICAL               314,582        309,582
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Multi-                            [-5,000]
                              azimuth
                              defense fast
                              intercept
                              round
                              engagement
                              system.
   019   0602715E         MATERIALS AND          220,115        201,721
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Program                          [-18,394]
                              decrease.
   020   0602716E         ELECTRONICS            174,798        174,798
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   021   0602718BR        WEAPONS OF MASS        155,415        155,415
                           DESTRUCTION
                           DEFEAT
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   022   0602751D8Z       SOFTWARE                 8,824          8,824
                           ENGINEERING
                           INSTITUTE (SEI)
                           APPLIED
                           RESEARCH.
   023   1160401BB        SOF TECHNOLOGY          37,517         37,517
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          1,751,578      1,728,184
                             APPLIED
                             RESEARCH.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT
   024   0603000D8Z       JOINT MUNITIONS         25,915         25,915
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   026   0603122D8Z       COMBATING               71,171        111,171
                           TERRORISM
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           SUPPORT.
         ...............      Program                           [40,000]
                              increase.
   027   0603133D8Z       FOREIGN                 21,782         21,782
                           COMPARATIVE
                           TESTING.
   028   0603160BR        COUNTERPROLIFERA       290,654        290,654
                           TION
                           INITIATIVES--PR
                           OLIFERATION
                           PREVENTION AND
                           DEFEAT.
   030   0603176C         ADVANCED                12,139         12,139
                           CONCEPTS AND
                           PERFORMANCE
                           ASSESSMENT.
   031   0603177C         DISCRIMINATION          28,200         28,200
                           SENSOR
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   032   0603178C         WEAPONS                 45,389          7,367
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      High Power                       [-26,055]
                              Directed
                              Energy--Miss
                              ile Destruct.
         ...............      Move to                          [-11,967]
                              support
                              Multiple
                              Object Kill
                              Vehicle.
   033   0603179C         ADVANCED C4ISR..         9,876          9,876
   034   0603180C         ADVANCED                17,364         17,364
                           RESEARCH.
   035   0603225D8Z       JOINT DOD-DOE           18,802         18,802
                           MUNITIONS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   036   0603264S         AGILE                    2,679          2,679
                           TRANSPORTATION
                           FOR THE 21ST
                           CENTURY (AT21)--
                           THEATER
                           CAPABILITY.
   037   0603274C         SPECIAL PROGRAM--       64,708         51,458
                           MDA TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Unjustified                      [-13,250]
                              growth.
   038   0603286E         ADVANCED               185,043        185,043
                           AEROSPACE
                           SYSTEMS.
   039   0603287E         SPACE PROGRAMS         126,692        126,692
                           AND TECHNOLOGY.
   040   0603288D8Z       ANALYTIC                14,645         14,645
                           ASSESSMENTS.
   041   0603289D8Z       ADVANCED                59,830         49,830
                           INNOVATIVE
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           CONCEPTS.
         ...............      Program                          [-10,000]
                              decrease.
   042   0603294C         COMMON KILL             46,753          7,195
                           VEHICLE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      MOKV Concept                     [-39,558]
                              Development.
   043   0603384BP        CHEMICAL AND           140,094        140,094
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM--ADVANC
                           ED DEVELOPMENT.
   044   0603527D8Z       RETRACT LARCH...       118,666        108,666
         ...............      Program                          [-10,000]
                              decrease.
   045   0603618D8Z       JOINT ELECTRONIC        43,966         30,466
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Program                          [-13,500]
                              decrease.
   046   0603648D8Z       JOINT CAPABILITY       141,540        129,540
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
         ...............      Program                          [-12,000]
                              decrease.
   047   0603662D8Z       NETWORKED                6,980          6,980
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           CAPABILITIES.
   050   0603680D8Z       DEFENSE-WIDE           157,056        142,056
                           MANUFACTURING
                           SCIENCE AND
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Unjustified                      [-15,000]
                              growth.
   051   0603699D8Z       EMERGING                33,515         41,015
                           CAPABILITIES
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Efforts to                         [7,500]
                              counter-ISIL
                              and Russian
                              aggression.
   052   0603712S         GENERIC                 16,543         16,543
                           LOGISTICS R&D
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEMONSTRATIONS.
   053   0603713S         DEPLOYMENT AND          29,888         29,888
                           DISTRIBUTION
                           ENTERPRISE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   054   0603716D8Z       STRATEGIC               65,836         65,836
                           ENVIRONMENTAL
                           RESEARCH
                           PROGRAM.
   055   0603720S         MICROELECTRONICS        79,037         89,037
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           SUPPORT.
         ...............      Trusted                           [10,000]
                              Source
                              Implementati
                              on for Field
                              Programmable
                              Gate Arrays
                              Study.
   056   0603727D8Z       JOINT                    9,626          7,126
                           WARFIGHTING
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Program                           [-2,500]
                              decrease.
   057   0603739E         ADVANCED                79,021         79,021
                           ELECTRONICS
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   058   0603760E         COMMAND, CONTROL       201,335        201,335
                           AND
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           SYSTEMS.
   059   0603766E         NETWORK-CENTRIC        452,861        432,861
                           WARFARE
                           TECHNOLOGY.
         ...............      Excessive                        [-20,000]
                              program
                              growth.
   060   0603767E         SENSOR                 257,127        257,127
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   061   0603769SE        DISTRIBUTED             10,771         10,771
                           LEARNING
                           ADVANCED
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   062   0603781D8Z       SOFTWARE                15,202         15,202
                           ENGINEERING
                           INSTITUTE.
   063   0603826D8Z       QUICK REACTION          90,500         70,500
                           SPECIAL
                           PROJECTS.
         ...............      Unjustified                      [-20,000]
                              growth.
   066   0603833D8Z       ENGINEERING             18,377         18,377
                           SCIENCE &
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   067   0603941D8Z       TEST &                  82,589         82,589
                           EVALUATION
                           SCIENCE &
                           TECHNOLOGY.
   068   0604055D8Z       OPERATIONAL             37,420         37,420
                           ENERGY
                           CAPABILITY
                           IMPROVEMENT.
   069   0303310D8Z       CWMD SYSTEMS....        42,488         42,488
   070   1160402BB        SOF ADVANCED            57,741         57,741
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          3,229,821      3,093,491
                             ADVANCED
                             TECHNOLOGY
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  ADVANCED
                           COMPONENT
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           PROTOTYPES
   071   0603161D8Z       NUCLEAR AND             31,710         31,710
                           CONVENTIONAL
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT RDT&E
                           ADC&P.
   073   0603600D8Z       WALKOFF.........        90,567         90,567
   074   0603714D8Z       ADVANCED SENSORS        15,900         15,900
                           APPLICATION
                           PROGRAM.
   075   0603851D8Z       ENVIRONMENTAL           52,758         52,758
                           SECURITY
                           TECHNICAL
                           CERTIFICATION
                           PROGRAM.
   076   0603881C         BALLISTIC              228,021        228,021
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TERMINAL
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT.
   077   0603882C         BALLISTIC            1,284,891      1,284,891
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           MIDCOURSE
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT.
  077A   0603XXXX         MULTIPLE-OBJECT                        81,525
                           KILL VEHICLE.
         ...............      Divert                            [10,000]
                              attitude
                              control
                              systems
                              technology
                              to support
                              Multi-Object
                              Kill Vehicle.
         ...............      Establish                         [71,525]
                              MOKV Program
                              of Record.
   078   0603884BP        CHEMICAL AND           172,754        172,754
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM--DEM/
                           VAL.
   079   0603884C         BALLISTIC              233,588        233,588
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SENSORS.
   080   0603890C         BMD ENABLING           409,088        409,088
                           PROGRAMS.
  080A   0603XXXC         WEAPONS                                26,055
                           TECHNOLOGY--HIG
                           H POWER DE.
         ...............      High Power                        [26,055]
                              Directed
                              Energy--Miss
                              ile Destruct.
   081   0603891C         SPECIAL                400,387        400,387
                           PROGRAMS--MDA.
   082   0603892C         AEGIS BMD.......       843,355        843,355
   083   0603893C         SPACE TRACKING &        31,632         31,632
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           SYSTEM.
   084   0603895C         BALLISTIC               23,289         23,289
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SYSTEM SPACE
                           PROGRAMS.
   085   0603896C         BALLISTIC              450,085        437,785
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           COMMAND AND
                           CONTROL, BATTLE
                           MANAGEMENT AND
                           COMMUNICATI.
         ...............      Future                           [-12,300]
                              Spirals
                              concurrency
                              with
                              multiple
                              ongoing
                              efforts and
                              excess
                              growth.
   086   0603898C         BALLISTIC               49,570         49,570
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           JOINT
                           WARFIGHTER
                           SUPPORT.
   087   0603904C         MISSILE DEFENSE         49,211         49,211
                           INTEGRATION &
                           OPERATIONS
                           CENTER (MDIOC).
   088   0603906C         REGARDING TRENCH         9,583          9,583
   089   0603907C         SEA BASED X-BAND        72,866         72,866
                           RADAR (SBX).
   090   0603913C         ISRAELI                102,795              0
                           COOPERATIVE
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............      Realign                         [-102,795]
                              Israeli
                              Cooperative
                              Programs to
                              Overseas
                              Contingency
                              Operations.
   091   0603914C         BALLISTIC              274,323        274,323
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TEST.
   092   0603915C         BALLISTIC              513,256        513,256
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TARGETS.
   093   0603920D8Z       HUMANITARIAN            10,129         10,129
                           DEMINING.
   094   0603923D8Z       COALITION               10,350         10,350
                           WARFARE.
   095   0604016D8Z       DEPARTMENT OF            1,518         11,518
                           DEFENSE
                           CORROSION
                           PROGRAM.
         ...............      Program                           [10,000]
                              Increase.
   096   0604115C         TECHNOLOGY              96,300         96,300
                           MATURATION
                           INITIATIVES.
   097   0604250D8Z       ADVANCED               469,798        469,798
                           INNOVATIVE
                           TECHNOLOGIES.
   098   0604400D8Z       DEPARTMENT OF            3,129          3,129
                           DEFENSE (DOD)
                           UNMANNED
                           AIRCRAFT SYSTEM
                           (UAS) COMMON
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   103   0604826J         JOINT C5                25,200         25,200
                           CAPABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT,
                           INTEGRATION AND
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y ASSESSMENTS.
   105   0604873C         LONG RANGE             137,564        137,564
                           DISCRIMINATION
                           RADAR (LRDR).
   106   0604874C         IMPROVED               278,944        298,944
                           HOMELAND
                           DEFENSE
                           INTERCEPTORS.
         ...............      Redesigned                        [20,000]
                              kill vehicle
                              development.
   107   0604876C         BALLISTIC               26,225         26,225
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           TERMINAL
                           DEFENSE SEGMENT
                           TEST.
   108   0604878C         AEGIS BMD TEST..        55,148         55,148
   109   0604879C         BALLISTIC               86,764         86,764
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           SENSOR TEST.
   110   0604880C         LAND-BASED SM-3         34,970         34,970
                           (LBSM3).
   111   0604881C         AEGIS SM-3 BLOCK       172,645        172,645
                           IIA CO-
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   112   0604887C         BALLISTIC               64,618         64,618
                           MISSILE DEFENSE
                           MIDCOURSE
                           SEGMENT TEST.
   114   0303191D8Z       JOINT                    2,660          2,660
                           ELECTROMAGNETIC
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           (JET) PROGRAM.
   115   0305103C         CYBER SECURITY             963            963
                           INITIATIVE.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          6,816,554      6,839,039
                             ADVANCED
                             COMPONENT
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             AND
                             PROTOTYPES.
         ...............
         ...............  SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION
   116   0604161D8Z       NUCLEAR AND              8,800          8,800
                           CONVENTIONAL
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY
                           EQUIPMENT RDT&E
                           SDD.
   117   0604165D8Z       PROMPT GLOBAL           78,817         88,817
                           STRIKE
                           CAPABILITY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............      Concept                            [5,000]
                              development
                              by the Army
                              of a CPGS
                              option.
         ...............      Concept                            [5,000]
                              development
                              by the Navy
                              of a CPGS
                              option.
   118   0604384BP        CHEMICAL AND           303,647        303,647
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           PROGRAM--EMD.
   119   0604764K         ADVANCED IT             23,424         23,424
                           SERVICES JOINT
                           PROGRAM OFFICE
                           (AITS-JPO).
   120   0604771D8Z       JOINT TACTICAL          14,285         14,285
                           INFORMATION
                           DISTRIBUTION
                           SYSTEM (JTIDS).
   121   0605000BR        WEAPONS OF MASS          7,156          7,156
                           DESTRUCTION
                           DEFEAT
                           CAPABILITIES.
   122   0605013BL        INFORMATION             12,542         12,542
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   123   0605021SE        HOMELAND                   191            191
                           PERSONNEL
                           SECURITY
                           INITIATIVE.
   124   0605022D8Z       DEFENSE                  3,273          3,273
                           EXPORTABILITY
                           PROGRAM.
   125   0605027D8Z       OUSD(C) IT               5,962          5,962
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           INITIATIVES.
   126   0605070S         DOD ENTERPRISE          13,412         13,412
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT AND
                           DEMONSTRATION.
   127   0605075D8Z       DCMO POLICY AND          2,223          2,223
                           INTEGRATION.
   128   0605080S         DEFENSE AGENCY          31,660         31,660
                           INTIATIVES
                           (DAI)--FINANCIA
                           L SYSTEM.
   129   0605090S         DEFENSE RETIRED         13,085         13,085
                           AND ANNUITANT
                           PAY SYSTEM
                           (DRAS).
   130   0605210D8Z       DEFENSE-WIDE             7,209          7,209
                           ELECTRONIC
                           PROCUREMENT
                           CAPABILITIES.
   131   0303141K         GLOBAL COMBAT           15,158         13,794
                           SUPPORT SYSTEM.
         ...............      Early to                          [-1,364]
                              need.
   132   0305304D8Z       DOD ENTERPRISE           4,414          4,414
                           ENERGY
                           INFORMATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           (EEIM).
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            545,258        553,894
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT
                             AND
                             DEMONSTRATION.
         ...............
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   133   0604774D8Z       DEFENSE                  5,581          5,581
                           READINESS
                           REPORTING
                           SYSTEM (DRRS).
   134   0604875D8Z       JOINT SYSTEMS            3,081          3,081
                           ARCHITECTURE
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   135   0604940D8Z       CENTRAL TEST AND       229,125        229,125
                           EVALUATION
                           INVESTMENT
                           DEVELOPMENT
                           (CTEIP).
   136   0604942D8Z       ASSESSMENTS AND         28,674         21,674
                           EVALUATIONS.
         ...............      Program                           [-7,000]
                              decrease.
   138   0605100D8Z       JOINT MISSION           45,235         45,235
                           ENVIRONMENT
                           TEST CAPABILITY
                           (JMETC).
   139   0605104D8Z       TECHNICAL               24,936         24,936
                           STUDIES,
                           SUPPORT AND
                           ANALYSIS.
   141   0605126J         JOINT INTEGRATED        35,471         35,471
                           AIR AND MISSILE
                           DEFENSE
                           ORGANIZATION
                           (JIAMDO).
   144   0605142D8Z       SYSTEMS                 37,655         37,655
                           ENGINEERING.
   145   0605151D8Z       STUDIES AND              3,015          3,015
                           ANALYSIS
                           SUPPORT--OSD.
   146   0605161D8Z       NUCLEAR MATTERS-         5,287          5,287
                           PHYSICAL
                           SECURITY.
   147   0605170D8Z       SUPPORT TO               5,289          5,289
                           NETWORKS AND
                           INFORMATION
                           INTEGRATION.
   148   0605200D8Z       GENERAL SUPPORT          2,120          2,120
                           TO USD
                           (INTELLIGENCE).
   149   0605384BP        CHEMICAL AND           102,264        102,264
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE PROGRAM.
   158   0605790D8Z       SMALL BUSINESS           2,169          2,169
                           INNOVATION
                           RESEARCH (SBIR)/
                            SMALL BUSINESS
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           TRANSFER.
   159   0605798D8Z       DEFENSE                 13,960         13,960
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           ANALYSIS.
   160   0605801KA        DEFENSE                 51,775         51,775
                           TECHNICAL
                           INFORMATION
                           CENTER (DTIC).
   161   0605803SE        R&D IN SUPPORT           9,533          9,533
                           OF DOD
                           ENLISTMENT,
                           TESTING AND
                           EVALUATION.
   162   0605804D8Z       DEVELOPMENT TEST        17,371         21,371
                           AND EVALUATION.
         ...............      Program                            [4,000]
                              increase.
   163   0605898E         MANAGEMENT HQ--         71,571         71,571
                           R&D.
   164   0606100D8Z       BUDGET AND               4,123          4,123
                           PROGRAM
                           ASSESSMENTS.
   165   0203345D8Z       DEFENSE                  1,946          1,946
                           OPERATIONS
                           SECURITY
                           INITIATIVE
                           (DOSI).
   166   0204571J         JOINT STAFF              7,673          7,673
                           ANALYTICAL
                           SUPPORT.
   169   0303166J         SUPPORT TO              10,413         10,413
                           INFORMATION
                           OPERATIONS (IO)
                           CAPABILITIES.
   170   0303260D8Z       DEFENSE MILITARY           971            971
                           DECEPTION
                           PROGRAM OFFICE
                           (DMDPO).
   171   0305193D8Z       CYBER                    6,579          6,579
                           INTELLIGENCE.
   173   0804767D8Z       COCOM EXERCISE          43,811         43,811
                           ENGAGEMENT AND
                           TRAINING
                           TRANSFORMATION
                           (CE2T2)--MHA.
   174   0901598C         MANAGEMENT HQ--         35,871         35,871
                           MDA.
   176   0903230D8W       WHS--MISSION             1,072          1,072
                           OPERATIONS
                           SUPPORT - IT.
  177A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED              49,500         49,500
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            856,071        853,071
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEM
                           DEVELOPMENT
   178   0604130V         ENTERPRISE               7,929          7,929
                           SECURITY SYSTEM
                           (ESS).
   179   0605127T         REGIONAL                 1,750          1,750
                           INTERNATIONAL
                           OUTREACH (RIO)
                           AND PARTNERSHIP
                           FOR PEACE
                           INFORMATION
                           MANA.
   180   0605147T         OVERSEAS                   294            294
                           HUMANITARIAN
                           ASSISTANCE
                           SHARED
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEM (OHASIS).
   181   0607210D8Z       INDUSTRIAL BASE         22,576         22,576
                           ANALYSIS AND
                           SUSTAINMENT
                           SUPPORT.
   182   0607310D8Z       CWMD SYSTEMS:            1,901          1,901
                           OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   183   0607327T         GLOBAL THEATER           8,474          8,474
                           SECURITY
                           COOPERATION
                           MANAGEMENT
                           INFORMATION
                           SYSTEMS (G-
                           TSCMIS).
   184   0607384BP        CHEMICAL AND            33,561         33,561
                           BIOLOGICAL
                           DEFENSE
                           (OPERATIONAL
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT).
   186   0208043J         PLANNING AND             3,061          3,061
                           DECISION AID
                           SYSTEM (PDAS).
   187   0208045K         C4I                     64,921         64,921
                           INTEROPERABILIT
                           Y.
   189   0301144K         JOINT/ALLIED             3,645          3,645
                           COALITION
                           INFORMATION
                           SHARING.
   193   0302016K         NATIONAL                   963            963
                           MILITARY
                           COMMAND SYSTEM-
                           WIDE SUPPORT.
   194   0302019K         DEFENSE INFO            10,186         10,186
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           ENGINEERING AND
                           INTEGRATION.
   195   0303126K         LONG-HAUL               36,883         36,883
                           COMMUNICATIONS-
                           -DCS.
   196   0303131K         MINIMUM                 13,735         13,735
                           ESSENTIAL
                           EMERGENCY
                           COMMUNICATIONS
                           NETWORK (MEECN).
   197   0303135G         PUBLIC KEY               6,101          6,101
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           (PKI).
   198   0303136G         KEY MANAGEMENT          43,867         43,867
                           INFRASTRUCTURE
                           (KMI).
   199   0303140D8Z       INFORMATION              8,957          8,957
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   200   0303140G         INFORMATION            146,890        146,890
                           SYSTEMS
                           SECURITY
                           PROGRAM.
   201   0303150K         GLOBAL COMMAND          21,503         21,503
                           AND CONTROL
                           SYSTEM.
   202   0303153K         DEFENSE SPECTRUM        20,342         20,342
                           ORGANIZATION.
   203   0303170K         NET-CENTRIC                444            444
                           ENTERPRISE
                           SERVICES (NCES).
   205   0303610K         TELEPORT PROGRAM         1,736          1,736
   206   0304210BB        SPECIAL                 65,060         65,060
                           APPLICATIONS
                           FOR
                           CONTINGENCIES.
   210   0305103K         CYBER SECURITY           2,976          2,976
                           INITIATIVE.
   215   0305186D8Z       POLICY R&D               4,182          4,182
                           PROGRAMS.
   216   0305199D8Z       NET CENTRICITY..        18,130         18,130
   218   0305208BB        DISTRIBUTED              5,302          5,302
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   221   0305208K         DISTRIBUTED              3,239          3,239
                           COMMON GROUND/
                           SURFACE SYSTEMS.
   225   0305327V         INSIDER THREAT..        11,733         11,733
   226   0305387D8Z       HOMELAND DEFENSE         2,119          2,119
                           TECHNOLOGY
                           TRANSFER
                           PROGRAM.
   234   0708011S         INDUSTRIAL              24,605         24,605
                           PREPAREDNESS.
   235   0708012S         LOGISTICS                1,770          1,770
                           SUPPORT
                           ACTIVITIES.
   236   0902298J         MANAGEMENT HQ--          2,978          2,978
                           OJCS.
   237   1105219BB        MQ-9 UAV........        18,151         23,151
         ...............      Medium                             [5,000]
                              Altitude
                              Long
                              Endurance
                              Tactical
                              (MALET) MQ-9
                              Unmanned
                              Aerial
                              Vehicle.
   238   1105232BB        RQ-11 UAV.......           758            758
   240   1160403BB        AVIATION SYSTEMS       173,934        189,134
         ...............      MC-130                            [15,200]
                              Terrain
                              Following/
                              Terrain
                              Avoidance
                              Radar
                              Program.
   241   1160405BB        INTELLIGENCE             6,866          6,866
                           SYSTEMS
                           DEVELOPMENT.
   242   1160408BB        OPERATIONAL             63,008         63,008
                           ENHANCEMENTS.
   243   1160431BB        WARRIOR SYSTEMS.        25,342         25,342
   244   1160432BB        SPECIAL PROGRAMS         3,401          3,401
   245   1160480BB        SOF TACTICAL             3,212          3,212
                           VEHICLES.
   246   1160483BB        MARITIME SYSTEMS        63,597         63,597
   247   1160489BB        GLOBAL VIDEO             3,933          3,933
                           SURVEILLANCE
                           ACTIVITIES.
   248   1160490BB        OPERATIONAL             10,623         10,623
                           ENHANCEMENTS
                           INTELLIGENCE.
  248A   9999999999       CLASSIFIED           3,564,272      3,564,272
                           PROGRAMS.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL          4,538,910      4,559,110
                             OPERATIONAL
                             SYSTEM
                             DEVELOPMENT.
         ...............
         ...............  UNDISTRIBUTED
   249   XXXXXXX          DEFENSE WIDE                          200,000
                           CYBER
                           VULNERABILITY
                           ASSESSMENT.
         ...............      Assess all                       [200,000]
                              major weapon
                              systems for
                              cyber
                              vulnerabilit
                              y.
   251   XXXXXXX          TECHNOLOGY                            400,000
                           OFFSET
                           INITIATIVE.
         ...............      Supports                         [400,000]
                              innovative
                              technology
                              development.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL                           600,000
                             UNDISTRIBUTED.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL          18,329,861     18,833,458
                               RESEARCH,
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               , TEST &
                               EVAL, DW.
         ...............
         ...............  OPERATIONAL TEST
                           & EVAL, DEFENSE
         ...............  MANAGEMENT
                           SUPPORT
   001   0605118OTE       OPERATIONAL TEST        76,838         76,838
                           AND EVALUATION.
   002   0605131OTE       LIVE FIRE TEST          46,882         46,882
                           AND EVALUATION.
   003   0605814OTE       OPERATIONAL TEST        46,838         46,838
                           ACTIVITIES AND
                           ANALYSES.
         ...............     SUBTOTAL            170,558        170,558
                             MANAGEMENT
                             SUPPORT.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL             170,558        170,558
                               OPERATIONAL
                               TEST &
                               EVAL,
                               DEFENSE.
         ...............
         ...............       TOTAL RDT&E    69,784,963     70,344,349
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS 
CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
   SEC. 4202. RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, TEST, AND EVALUATION FOR OVERSEAS
            CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2016      Conference
  Line    Program Element        Item          Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            ARMY
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT &
                            PROTOTYPES
   060   0603747A          SOLDIER SUPPORT         1,500          1,500
                            AND
                            SURVIVABILITY.
         ................      SUBTOTAL            1,500          1,500
                               ADVANCED
                               COMPONENT
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               & PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL              1,500          1,500
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, ARMY.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL,
                            NAVY
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
  231A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             35,747         35,747
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL           35,747         35,747
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             35,747         35,747
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, NAVY.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, AF
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEMS
                            DEVELOPMENT
   133   0205671F          JOINT COUNTER             300            300
                            RCIED
                            ELECTRONIC
                            WARFARE.
  246A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED             16,800         16,800
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL           17,100         17,100
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEMS
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL             17,100         17,100
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, AF.
         ................
         ................  RESEARCH,
                            DEVELOPMENT,
                            TEST & EVAL, DW
         ................  ADVANCED
                            COMPONENT
                            DEVELOPMENT AND
                            PROTOTYPES.
   090   0603913C          ISRAELI                              267,595
                            COOPERATIVE
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      Arrow 3.....                     [19,500]
         ................      Arrow System                     [45,500]
                               Improvement
                               Program.
         ................      David's                          [99,800]
                               Sling.
         ................      Realign                         [102,795]
                               Israeli
                               Cooperative
                               Programs to
                               Overseas
                               Contingency
                               Operations.
         ................     SUBTOTAL                          267,595
                               ADVANCED
                               COMPONENT
                               DEVELOPMENT
                               AND
                               PROTOTYPES.
         ................
         ................  OPERATIONAL
                            SYSTEM
                            DEVELOPMENT
  248A   9999999999        CLASSIFIED            137,087        137,087
                            PROGRAMS.
         ................      SUBTOTAL          137,087        137,087
                               OPERATIONAL
                               SYSTEM
                               DEVELOPMENT.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL            137,087        404,682
                                RESEARCH,
                                DEVELOPMENT
                                , TEST &
                                EVAL, DW.
         ................
         ................       TOTAL RDT&E      191,434        459,029
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                 TITLE XLIII--OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE

SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
     SEC. 4301. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                             FY 2016        Conference
  Line                Item                   Request        Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................       1,094,429       1,594,429
             Force Readiness                                   [500,000]
             Restoration--Operations
             Tempo.....................
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          68,873          68,873
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.       1,214,116       1,291,316
             Readiness funding increase                         [77,200]
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       7,616,008       7,626,508
             Readiness funding increase                         [10,500]
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              2,617,169       2,789,369
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                               [172,200]
             shortfalls................
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL             421,269         421,269
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   130   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              164,743         164,743
          OPERATIONS...................
   170   COMBATANT COMMANDS DIRECT              448,633         448,633
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      13,645,240      14,405,140
 
         MOBILIZATION
   180   STRATEGIC MOBILITY............         401,638         401,638
   200   INDUSTRIAL PREPAREDNESS.......           6,532           6,532
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         408,170         408,170
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   210   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         131,536         131,536
   220   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          47,843          47,843
   230   ONE STATION UNIT TRAINING.....          42,565          42,565
   240   SENIOR RESERVE OFFICERS                490,378         490,378
          TRAINING CORPS...............
   250   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         981,000         989,200
             Readiness funding increase                         [33,200]
             Unjustified program growth                        [-25,000]
   260   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         940,872         940,872
   270   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               230,324         230,324
          EDUCATION....................
   280   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         603,519         603,519
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         491,922         491,922
   300   EXAMINING.....................         194,079         194,079
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 227,951         227,951
          EDUCATION....................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 161,048         161,048
          TRAINING.....................
   330   JUNIOR RESERVE OFFICER                 170,118         170,118
          TRAINING CORPS...............
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            4,713,155       4,721,355
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   360   CENTRAL SUPPLY ACTIVITIES.....         813,881         813,881
   370   LOGISTIC SUPPORT ACTIVITIES...         714,781         703,781
             Unjustified program growth                        [-11,000]
   380   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT.........         322,127         322,127
   390   ADMINISTRATION................         384,813         384,813
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....       1,781,350       1,781,350
   410   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........         292,532         292,532
   420   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         375,122         375,122
   430   OTHER SERVICE SUPPORT.........       1,119,848       1,115,348
             Spirit of America program                          [-4,500]
             growth....................
   440   ARMY CLAIMS ACTIVITIES........         225,358         225,358
   450   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........         239,755         239,755
   460   FINANCIAL MANAGEMENT AND AUDIT         223,319         223,319
          READINESS....................
   470   INTERNATIONAL MILITARY                 469,865         469,865
          HEADQUARTERS.................
   480   MISC. SUPPORT OF OTHER NATIONS          40,521          40,521
   530   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,120,974       1,140,974
             Additional SOUTHCOM ISR                            [20,000]
             and intel support.........
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE         8,124,246       8,128,746
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   540   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -847,900
             Excessive standard price                          [-86,000]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                 [-431,000]
             adjustments...............
             Streamlining of Army                             [-180,900]
             Management Headquarters...
             Working Capital Fund                             [-150,000]
             carryover above allowable
             ceiling...................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -847,900
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              26,890,811      26,815,511
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......          16,612          16,612
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         486,531         486,531
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........         105,446         105,446
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT         516,791         516,791
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............          87,587          87,587
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             348,601         348,601
          SUPPORT......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          81,350          81,350
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.          59,574          91,974
             Readiness funding increase                         [32,400]
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......         570,852         557,852
             Unjustified program growth                        [-13,000]
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                245,686         259,286
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [13,600]
             shortfalls................
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL              40,962          40,962
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,559,992       2,592,992
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          10,665          10,665
   140   ADMINISTRATION................          18,390          18,390
   150   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          14,976          14,976
   160   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           8,841           8,841
   170   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          52,928          52,928
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             105,800         105,800
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   190   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -12,600
             Excessive standard price                           [-8,000]
             for fuel..................
             Streamlining of Army                               [-4,600]
             Reserve Management
             Headquarters..............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -12,600
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               2,665,792       2,686,192
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS................         709,433       1,094,533
             Increased Operations Tempo                        [385,100]
             to Meet Readiness
             Objectives................
   020   MODULAR SUPPORT BRIGADES......         167,324         167,324
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE........         741,327         741,327
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS..........          88,775          96,475
             ARNG border security                                [7,700]
             enhancement...............
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT          32,130          32,130
   060   AVIATION ASSETS...............         943,609         996,209
             ARNG border security                               [13,000]
             enhancement...............
             Readiness funding increase                         [39,600]
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS             703,137         703,137
          SUPPORT......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS.          84,066          84,066
   090   LAND FORCES DEPOT MAINTENANCE.         166,848         189,348
             Readiness funding increase                         [22,500]
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT.......       1,022,970         998,970
             Justification does not                            [-14,000]
             match summary of price and
             program changes...........
             Unjustified growth........                        [-10,000]
   110   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                673,680         708,880
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [35,200]
             shortfalls................
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL             954,574         954,574
          HEADQUARTERS.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,287,873       6,766,973
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   130   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....           6,570           6,570
   140   ADMINISTRATION................          59,629          59,729
             National Guard State                                [1,000]
             Partnership Program
             increase..................
             NGB Heritage Painting                                [-900]
             Program...................
   150   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....          68,452          68,452
   160   MANPOWER MANAGEMENT...........           8,841           8,841
   170   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         283,670         272,170
             Army Marketing Program                            [-11,500]
             unjustified program growth
   180   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT........           2,942           2,942
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             430,104         418,704
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   200   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -46,200
             Excessive standard price                          [-26,000]
             for fuel..................
             Streamlining of Army                              [-20,200]
             National Guard Management
             Headquarters..............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -46,200
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,717,977       7,139,477
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &               37,225          37,225
          ENGINEERING SERVICES.........
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT...........         376,844         390,744
             Aviation Readiness                                  [4,000]
             Restoration--AV-8B Program
             Related Logistics.........
             Aviation Readiness                                  [1,900]
             Restoration--CH-53 Program
             Related Logisitics........
             Aviation Readiness                                  [1,200]
             Restoration--MV-22 Program
             Related Logisitics........
             MV-22 Fleet Engineering                             [6,800]
             Support Unfunded
             Requirement...............
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....         897,536         912,536
             Program increase..........                         [15,000]
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS............         544,056         549,356
             Aviation Readiness                                  [5,300]
             Restoration--MV-22
             Aviation Logisitics.......
   140   ELECTRONIC WARFARE............          96,916          96,916
   150   SPACE SYSTEMS AND SURVEILLANCE         192,198         192,198
   160   WARFARE TACTICS...............         453,942         453,942
   170   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND            351,871         351,871
          OCEANOGRAPHY.................
   180   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........       1,186,847       1,171,847
             Unjustified program growth                        [-15,000]
   190   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE.........         123,948         123,948
   200   DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT......           2,443           2,443
   210   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE               98,914          98,914
          OPERATIONS...................
   220   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             73,110          73,110
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
   230   CRUISE MISSILE................         110,734         110,734
   240   FLEET BALLISTIC MISSILE.......       1,206,736       1,206,736
   250   IN-SERVICE WEAPONS SYSTEMS             141,664         141,664
          SUPPORT......................
   260   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE...........         523,122         535,122
             Ship Self-Defense Systems                          [12,000]
             Maintenance Backlog
             Reduction.................
   270   OTHER WEAPON SYSTEMS SUPPORT..         371,872         371,872
   280   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........         896,061         896,061
   290   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND         2,220,423       2,245,723
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                [25,300]
             shortfalls................
   300   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       4,472,468       4,472,468
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      14,378,930      14,435,430
 
         MOBILIZATION
   310   SHIP PREPOSITIONING AND SURGE.         422,846         422,846
   320   AIRCRAFT ACTIVATIONS/                    6,464           6,964
          INACTIVATIONS................
             Aviation Readiness                                    [500]
             Restoration--F-18 Aircraft
             Activations/Inactivations.
   330   SHIP ACTIVATIONS/INACTIVATIONS         361,764         361,764
   340   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES           69,530          69,530
          SYSTEMS......................
   350   INDUSTRIAL READINESS..........           2,237           2,237
   360   COAST GUARD SUPPORT...........          21,823          21,823
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         884,664         885,164
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   370   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........         149,375         149,375
   380   RECRUIT TRAINING..............           9,035           9,035
   390   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING              156,290         156,290
          CORPS........................
   400   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         653,728         653,728
   410   FLIGHT TRAINING...............           8,171           8,171
   420   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               168,471         162,471
          EDUCATION....................
             Civilian Institutions                              [-6,000]
             Graduate Education Program
   430   TRAINING SUPPORT..............         196,048         196,048
   440   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         234,233         235,233
             Naval Sea Cadet Corps.....                          [1,000]
   450   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 137,855         137,855
          EDUCATION....................
   460   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                  77,257          77,257
          TRAINING.....................
   470   JUNIOR ROTC...................          47,653          47,653
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            1,838,116       1,833,116
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   480   ADMINISTRATION................         923,771         923,771
   490   EXTERNAL RELATIONS............          13,967          13,967
   500   CIVILIAN MANPOWER AND                  120,812         120,812
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   510   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                  350,983         346,983
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
             Unjustified growth........                         [-4,000]
   520   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT.......         265,948         260,948
             Navy Fleet Band National                           [-5,000]
             Tour......................
   530   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         335,482         335,482
   550   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....         197,724         197,724
   570   PLANNING, ENGINEERING AND              274,936         274,936
          DESIGN.......................
   580   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM              1,122,178       1,122,178
          MANAGEMENT...................
   590   HULL, MECHANICAL AND                    48,587          48,587
          ELECTRICAL SUPPORT...........
   600   COMBAT/WEAPONS SYSTEMS........          25,599          25,599
   610   SPACE AND ELECTRONIC WARFARE            72,768          72,768
          SYSTEMS......................
   620   NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE...         577,803         577,803
   680   INTERNATIONAL HEADQUARTERS AND           4,768           4,768
          AGENCIES.....................
   710   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         560,754         560,754
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           4,896,080       4,887,080
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   720   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -856,200
             Excessive standard price                         [-610,000]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                  [-87,000]
             adjustments...............
             Streamlining of Navy                             [-159,200]
             Management Headquarters...
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -856,200
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              21,997,790      21,184,590
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          MARINE CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         227,583         227,583
   040   MARITIME PREPOSITIONING.......          86,259          86,259
   050   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION &             746,237         775,037
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                [28,800]
             shortfalls................
   060   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........       2,057,362       2,057,362
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       3,117,441       3,146,241
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   070   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          16,460          16,460
   080   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........             977             977
   090   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....          97,325          97,325
   100   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT                40,786          40,786
          EDUCATION....................
   120   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....         164,806         164,806
   130   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                  39,963          39,963
          EDUCATION....................
   140   JUNIOR ROTC...................          23,397          23,397
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              383,714         383,714
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....          37,386          37,386
   160   ADMINISTRATION................         358,395         351,695
             Unjustified Growth Marine                          [-6,700]
             Corps Heritage Center.....
   180   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                 76,105          76,105
          MANAGEMENT...................
   200   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........          45,429          45,429
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD             517,315         510,615
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   210   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -87,700
             Excessive standard price                          [-25,000]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                  [-28,000]
             adjustments...............
             Streamlining of Marine                            [-24,700]
             Corps Management
             Headquarters..............
             Working Capital Fund                              [-10,000]
             carryover above allowable
             ceiling...................
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -87,700
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               4,018,470       3,952,870
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT               563,722         563,722
          OPERATIONS...................
   020   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE......           6,218           6,218
   030   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE....          82,712          82,712
   040   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                  326             326
          SUPPORT......................
   050   AVIATION LOGISTICS............          13,436          13,436
   070   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                  557             557
          TRAINING.....................
   090   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS.........          14,499          14,499
   100   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES.........         117,601         117,601
   120   ENTERPRISE INFORMATION........          29,382          29,382
   130   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            48,513          49,213
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                   [700]
             shortfalls................
   140   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         102,858         102,858
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         979,824         980,524
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   ADMINISTRATION................           1,505           1,505
   160   MILITARY MANPOWER AND                   13,782          13,782
          PERSONNEL MANAGEMENT.........
   170   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....           3,437           3,437
   180   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                  3,210           3,210
          MANAGEMENT...................
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              21,934          21,934
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   210   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                         -42,100
             Excessive standard price                          [-41,000]
             for fuel..................
             Streamlining of Navy                               [-1,100]
             Reserve Management
             Headquarters..............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                         -42,100
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               1,001,758         960,358
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES..............          97,631          97,631
   020   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          18,254          18,254
   030   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND            28,653          30,053
          MODERNIZATION................
             Restore Sustainment                                 [1,400]
             shortfalls................
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT........         111,923         111,923
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.         256,461         257,861
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   050   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION....             924             924
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          10,866          10,866
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....           8,785           8,785
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              20,575          20,575
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   080   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                          -2,100
             Excessive standard price                           [-1,000]
             for fuel..................
             Streamlining of Marine                             [-1,100]
             Corps Reserve Management
             Headquarters..............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                          -2,100
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                 277,036         276,336
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       3,336,868       3,599,468
             A-10 restoration: Force                           [235,300]
             Structure Restoration.....
             EC-130H Force Structure                            [27,300]
             Restoration...............
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES.....       1,897,315       1,915,015
             Increase Range Use Support                         [37,700]
             Unfunded Requirement......
             Unjustified growth........                        [-20,000]
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,        1,797,549       1,690,349
          MAINTAIN SKILLS).............
             A-10 to F-15E Training                            [-78,200]
             Transition................
             Unjustified growth........                        [-29,000]
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       6,537,127       6,497,127
             Remove FY 15 contractor                           [-40,000]
             logistics support costs...
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,              1,997,712       2,132,812
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                               [135,100]
             shortfalls................
   060   BASE SUPPORT..................       2,841,948       2,841,948
   120   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT            900,965         889,965
          MISSION SUPPORT..............
             Unjustified growth........                        [-11,000]
   130   COMBATANT COMMANDERS CORE              205,078         205,078
          OPERATIONS...................
   135   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........         893,272         893,272
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.      20,407,834      20,665,034
 
         MOBILIZATION
   170   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                259,956         259,956
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   180   BASE SUPPORT..................         708,799         708,799
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION.....         968,755         968,755
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   190   OFFICER ACQUISITION...........          92,191          92,191
   200   RECRUIT TRAINING..............          21,871          21,871
   210   RESERVE OFFICERS TRAINING               77,527          77,527
          CORPS (ROTC).................
   220   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                228,500         228,500
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   230   BASE SUPPORT..................         772,870         772,870
   240   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING....         359,304         379,304
             Remotely Piloted Aircraft                          [20,000]
             Flight Training
             Acceleration..............
   250   FLIGHT TRAINING...............         710,553         726,553
             Consolidation of Air                               [-4,000]
             Battle Manager Resources
             not properly documented...
             Unmanned Aerial                                    [20,000]
             Surveillance (UAS)
             Training..................
   260   PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT               228,252         228,252
          EDUCATION....................
   270   TRAINING SUPPORT..............          76,464          76,464
   280   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         375,513         375,513
   290   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          79,690          79,690
   300   EXAMINING.....................           3,803           3,803
   310   OFF-DUTY AND VOLUNTARY                 180,807         180,807
          EDUCATION....................
   320   CIVILIAN EDUCATION AND                 167,478         167,478
          TRAINING.....................
   330   JUNIOR ROTC...................          59,263          59,263
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND            3,434,086       3,470,086
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   350   TECHNICAL SUPPORT ACTIVITIES..         862,022         842,022
             Unjustified growth........                        [-20,000]
   360   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............          61,745          61,745
   370   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                298,759         298,759
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
   380   BASE SUPPORT..................       1,108,220       1,108,220
   390   ADMINISTRATION................         689,797         681,797
             DEAMS reduction-Funding                            [-8,000]
             ahead of need.............
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS....         498,053         498,053
   410   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES..         900,253         900,253
   420   CIVIL AIR PATROL..............          25,411          27,711
             Civil Air Patrol..........                          [2,300]
   450   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT.........          89,148          89,148
   460   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........       1,187,859       1,187,859
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD           5,721,267       5,695,567
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   470   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                      -1,006,500
             Excessive standard price                         [-580,000]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                 [-217,000]
             adjustments...............
             Streamlining of Air Force                        [-209,500]
             Management Headquarters...
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                      -1,006,500
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              30,531,942      29,792,942
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES.........       1,779,378       1,781,878
             A-10 restoration: Force                             [2,500]
             Structure Restoration.....
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         226,243         220,243
             Justification does not                             [-6,000]
             match summary of price and
             program changes for
             civilian pay..............
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............         487,036         487,036
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                109,342         109,642
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                   [300]
             shortfalls................
   050   BASE SUPPORT..................         373,707         370,707
             Air Force Support Standard                         [-3,000]
             Correction--transfer to
             SAG 11G not properly
             accounted.................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       2,975,706       2,969,506
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          53,921          53,921
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          14,359          14,359
   080   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERS              13,665          13,665
          MGMT (ARPC)..................
   090   OTHER PERS SUPPORT (DISABILITY           6,606           6,606
          COMP)........................
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             88,551          88,551
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   110   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -107,500
             Excessive standard price                         [-104,000]
             for fuel..................
             Streamlining of Air Force                          [-3,500]
             Reserve Management
             Headquarters..............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -107,500
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               3,064,257       2,950,557
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE..
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   AIRCRAFT OPERATIONS...........       3,526,471       3,568,671
             A-10 restoration: Force                            [42,200]
             Structure Restoration.....
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS....         740,779         743,379
             ARNG border security                                [2,600]
             enhancement...............
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE.............       1,763,859       1,763,859
   040   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                288,786         307,586
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION..
             Restore Sustainment                                [18,800]
             shortfalls................
   050   BASE SUPPORT..................         582,037         582,037
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       6,901,932       6,965,532
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICE-
          WIDE ACTIVITIES
   060   ADMINISTRATION................          23,626          23,626
   070   RECRUITING AND ADVERTISING....          30,652          30,652
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION             54,278          54,278
             AND SERVICE-WIDE
             ACTIVITIES................
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   080   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -200,300
             Excessive standard price                         [-168,000]
             for fuel..................
             Streamlining of Air                                [-2,300]
             National Guard Management
             Headquarters..............
             Unjustified growth........                        [-30,000]
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -200,300
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               6,956,210       6,819,510
              MAINTENANCE, ANG.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF.........         485,888         505,888
             Middle East Assurance                              [20,000]
             Initiative................
   020   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF             534,795         534,795
          DEFENSE......................
   030   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/          4,862,368       4,841,168
          OPERATING FORCES.............
             Overestimation of civilian                        [-21,200]
             FTE.......................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES.       5,883,051       5,881,851
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   040   DEFENSE ACQUISITION UNIVERSITY         142,659         142,659
   050   NATIONAL DEFENSE UNIVERSITY...          78,416          78,416
   060   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/            354,372         354,372
          TRAINING AND RECRUITING......
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND              575,447         575,447
             RECRUITING................
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   070   CIVIL MILITARY PROGRAMS.......         160,320         180,320
             STARBASE..................                         [20,000]
   090   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY.         570,177         570,177
   100   DEFENSE CONTRACT MANAGEMENT          1,374,536       1,374,536
          AGENCY.......................
   110   DEFENSE HUMAN RESOURCES                642,551         642,551
          ACTIVITY.....................
   120   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS          1,282,755       1,292,755
          AGENCY.......................
             SHARKSEER.................                         [10,000]
   140   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY.          26,073          26,073
   150   DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY......         366,429         366,429
   160   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY........         192,625         192,625
   180   DEFENSE PERSONNEL ACCOUNTING           115,372         115,372
          AGENCY.......................
   190   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION           524,723         495,523
          AGENCY.......................
             Global Security                                   [-22,200]
             Contingency Fund..........
             Reduction to Combating                             [-7,000]
             Terrorism Fellowship......
   200   DEFENSE SECURITY SERVICE......         508,396         508,396
   230   DEFENSE TECHNOLOGY SECURITY             33,577          33,577
          ADMINISTRATION...............
   240   DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION               415,696         415,696
          AGENCY.......................
   260   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                2,753,771       2,784,021
          EDUCATION ACTIVITY...........
             Impact Aid................                         [30,000]
             School lunches for                                    [250]
             territories...............
   270   MISSILE DEFENSE AGENCY........         432,068         432,068
   290   OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT.         110,612         110,612
   300   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF           1,388,285       1,393,535
          DEFENSE......................
             Commission to Assess the                            [2,000]
             Threat to the U.S. from
             Electromagnetic Pulse
             Attack....................
             OSD fleet architecture                              [1,000]
             study.....................
             OUSD (Policy) unjustified                          [-2,000]
             growth....................
             OUSD AT&L Congressional                           [-10,500]
             Mandate (BRAC Support)....
             Readiness environmental                            [14,750]
             protection initiative--
             program increase..........
   310   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/             83,263          83,263
          ADMIN & SVC-WIDE ACTIVITIES..
   320   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                621,688         621,688
          SERVICES.....................
   330   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS...........      14,379,428      14,379,428
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION         25,982,345      26,018,645
             AND SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES
 
         UNDISTRIBUTED
   340   UNDISTRIBUTED.................                        -791,300
             Excessive standard price                          [-37,000]
             for fuel..................
             Foreign Currency                                  [-78,400]
             adjustments...............
             Program decrease..........                         [-5,000]
             Streamlining of Department                       [-670,900]
             of Defense Management
             Headquarters..............
             SUBTOTAL UNDISTRIBUTED....                        -791,300
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &              32,440,843      31,684,643
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE
 
         MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
         MISCELLANEOUS APPROPRIATIONS
   010   US COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE             14,078          14,078
          ARMED FORCES, DEFENSE........
   020   OVERSEAS HUMANITARIAN,                 100,266         100,266
          DISASTER AND CIVIC AID.......
   030   COOPERATIVE THREAT REDUCTION..         358,496         358,496
   040   ACQ WORKFORCE DEV FD..........          84,140          84,140
   050   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             234,829         234,829
          ARMY.........................
   060   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,             292,453         292,453
          NAVY.........................
   070   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION, AIR         368,131         368,131
          FORCE........................
   080   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION,               8,232           8,232
          DEFENSE......................
   090   ENVIRONMENTAL RESTORATION              203,717         203,717
          FORMERLY USED SITES..........
             SUBTOTAL MISCELLANEOUS           1,664,342       1,664,342
             APPROPRIATIONS............
 
              TOTAL MISCELLANEOUS             1,664,342       1,664,342
              APPROPRIATIONS...........
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &             138,227,228     135,927,328
              MAINTENANCE..............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY 
OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4302. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS
                        (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2016       Conference
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................         257,900        257,900
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........       1,110,836      1,110,836
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.         261,943        261,943
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................          22,160         22,160
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS            1,119,201      1,119,201
          SUPPORT.......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS..         117,881        117,881
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          50,000         50,000
   140   ADDITIONAL ACTIVITIES..........       4,500,666      4,526,466
             Army expenses related to                           [25,800]
             Syria Train and Equip
             program....................
   150   COMMANDERS EMERGENCY RESPONSE            10,000          5,000
          PROGRAM.......................
             Program decrease...........                        [-5,000]
   160   RESET..........................       1,834,777      1,834,777
   170   COMBATANT COMMANDS DIRECT                              100,000
          MISSION SUPPORT...............
             AFRICOM Intelligence,                             [100,000]
             Surveilance, and
             Reconnissance..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       9,285,364      9,406,164
 
         MOBILIZATION
   190   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS......          40,000         40,000
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......          40,000         40,000
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         529,891        529,891
   380   AMMUNITION MANAGEMENT..........           5,033          5,033
   420   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT........         100,480        100,480
   450   REAL ESTATE MANAGEMENT.........         154,350        154,350
   530   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............       1,267,632      1,267,632
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE          2,057,386      2,057,386
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               11,382,750     11,503,550
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           2,442          2,442
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.             813            813
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS                  779            779
          SUPPORT.......................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          20,525         20,525
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          24,559         24,559
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   24,559         24,559
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARNG
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MANEUVER UNITS.................           1,984          1,984
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........           4,671          4,671
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................          15,980         15,980
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS               12,867         12,867
          SUPPORT.......................
   100   BASE OPERATIONS SUPPORT........          23,134         23,134
   120   MANAGEMENT AND OPERATIONAL                1,426          1,426
          HEADQUARTERS..................
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          60,062         60,062
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS.....             783            783
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD                  783            783
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   60,845         60,845
              MAINTENANCE, ARNG.........
 
         AFGHANISTAN SECURITY FORCES
          FUND
         MINISTRY OF DEFENSE
   010   SUSTAINMENT....................       2,214,899      2,214,899
   030   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION...         182,751        182,751
   040   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS........         281,555        281,555
             SUBTOTAL MINISTRY OF              2,679,205      2,679,205
             DEFENSE....................
 
         MINISTRY OF INTERIOR
   060   SUSTAINMENT....................         901,137        901,137
   080   EQUIPMENT AND TRANSPORTATION...         116,573        116,573
   090   TRAINING AND OPERATIONS........          65,342         65,342
             SUBTOTAL MINISTRY OF              1,083,052      1,083,052
             INTERIOR...................
 
              TOTAL AFGHANISTAN SECURITY       3,762,257      3,762,257
              FORCES FUND...............
 
         IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
         IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
   010   IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND......         715,000        715,000
             SUBTOTAL IRAQ TRAIN AND             715,000        715,000
             EQUIP FUND.................
 
              TOTAL IRAQ TRAIN AND EQUIP         715,000        715,000
              FUND......................
 
         SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
         SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND
   010   SYRIA TRAIN AND EQUIP FUND.....         600,000        531,450
             Realignment to Air Force...                       [-42,750]
             Realignment to Army........                       [-25,800]
             SUBTOTAL SYRIA TRAIN AND            600,000        531,450
             EQUIP FUND.................
 
              TOTAL SYRIA TRAIN AND              600,000        531,450
              EQUIP FUND................
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT                358,417        361,717
          OPERATIONS....................
             Readiness funding increase.                         [3,300]
   030   AVIATION TECHNICAL DATA &                   110            110
          ENGINEERING SERVICES..........
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY                 4,513          4,513
          SUPPORT.......................
   050   AIR SYSTEMS SUPPORT............         126,501        126,501
   060   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE.....          75,897         92,897
             Readiness funding increase.                        [17,000]
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                 2,770          2,770
          SUPPORT.......................
   080   AVIATION LOGISTICS.............          34,101         34,101
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                1,184,878      1,184,878
          OPERATIONS....................
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &                16,663         16,663
          TRAINING......................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE.........       1,922,829      1,922,829
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS..........          33,577         33,577
   160   WARFARE TACTICS................          26,454         26,454
   170   OPERATIONAL METEOROLOGY AND              22,305         22,305
          OCEANOGRAPHY..................
   180   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES..........         513,969        513,969
   190   EQUIPMENT MAINTENANCE..........          10,007         10,007
   250   IN-SERVICE WEAPONS SYSTEMS               60,865         60,865
          SUPPORT.......................
   260   WEAPONS MAINTENANCE............         275,231        275,231
   290   SUSTAINMENT, RESTORATION AND              7,819          7,819
          MODERNIZATION.................
   300   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........          61,422         61,422
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       4,738,328      4,758,628
 
         MOBILIZATION
   340   EXPEDITIONARY HEALTH SERVICES             5,307          5,307
          SYSTEMS.......................
   360   COAST GUARD SUPPORT............         160,002        160,002
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......         165,309        165,309
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   400   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....          44,845         44,845
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                44,845         44,845
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   480   ADMINISTRATION.................           2,513          2,513
   490   EXTERNAL RELATIONS.............             500            500
   510   MILITARY MANPOWER AND PERSONNEL           5,309          5,309
          MANAGEMENT....................
   520   OTHER PERSONNEL SUPPORT........           1,469          1,469
   550   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         156,671        156,671
   580   ACQUISITION AND PROGRAM                   8,834          8,834
          MANAGEMENT....................
   620   NAVAL INVESTIGATIVE SERVICE....           1,490          1,490
   710   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............           6,320          6,320
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              183,106        183,106
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                5,131,588      5,151,888
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE
          CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES.............         353,133        353,133
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS................         259,676        259,676
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         240,000        240,000
   060   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........          16,026         16,026
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..         868,835        868,835
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   110   TRAINING SUPPORT...............          37,862         37,862
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                37,862         37,862
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   150   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....          43,767         43,767
   200   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............           2,070          2,070
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD               45,837         45,837
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                  952,534        952,534
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS.
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
          RES
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT                  4,033          4,033
          OPERATIONS....................
   020   INTERMEDIATE MAINTENANCE.......              60             60
   030   AIRCRAFT DEPOT MAINTENANCE.....          20,300         20,300
   100   COMBAT SUPPORT FORCES..........           7,250          7,250
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          31,643         31,643
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   31,643         31,643
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY RES.....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MC
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATING FORCES...............           2,500          2,500
   040   BASE OPERATING SUPPORT.........             955            955
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..           3,455          3,455
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                    3,455          3,455
              MAINTENANCE, MC RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   PRIMARY COMBAT FORCES..........       1,505,738      1,548,488
             Air Force expenses related                         [42,750]
             to Syria Train and Equip
             program....................
   020   COMBAT ENHANCEMENT FORCES......         914,973        919,273
             Readiness funding increase.                         [4,300]
   030   AIR OPERATIONS TRAINING (OJT,            31,978         31,978
          MAINTAIN SKILLS)..............
   040   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............       1,192,765      1,192,765
   050   FACILITIES SUSTAINMENT,                  85,625         85,625
          RESTORATION & MODERNIZATION...
   060   BASE SUPPORT...................         917,269        917,269
   070   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING...          30,219         30,219
   080   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS..         174,734        174,734
   100   LAUNCH FACILITIES..............             869            869
   110   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS..........           5,008          5,008
   120   COMBATANT COMMANDERS DIRECT             100,190        100,190
          MISSION SUPPORT...............
   135   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          22,893         22,893
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       4,982,261      5,029,311
 
         MOBILIZATION
   140   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS.............       2,995,703      2,995,703
   150   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS......         108,163        108,163
   160   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............         511,059        511,059
   180   BASE SUPPORT...................           4,642          4,642
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......       3,619,567      3,619,567
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   190   OFFICER ACQUISITION............              92             92
   240   SPECIALIZED SKILL TRAINING.....          11,986         11,986
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND                12,078         12,078
             RECRUITING.................
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   340   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS...........          86,716         86,716
   380   BASE SUPPORT...................           3,836          3,836
   400   SERVICEWIDE COMMUNICATIONS.....         165,348        165,348
   410   OTHER SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES...         204,683        141,683
             Reduction to the Office of                        [-63,000]
             Security Cooperation in
             Iraq.......................
   450   INTERNATIONAL SUPPORT..........              61             61
   460   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          15,463         15,463
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD              476,107        413,107
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                9,090,013      9,074,063
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE....
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AF
          RESERVE
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............          51,086         51,086
   050   BASE SUPPORT...................           7,020          7,020
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          58,106         58,106
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   58,106         58,106
              MAINTENANCE, AF RESERVE...
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ANG
         OPERATING FORCES
   020   MISSION SUPPORT OPERATIONS.....          19,900         19,900
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..          19,900         19,900
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                   19,900         19,900
              MAINTENANCE, ANG..........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE,
          DEFENSE-WIDE
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF..........           9,900          9,900
   030   SPECIAL OPERATIONS COMMAND/           2,345,835      2,345,835
          OPERATING FORCES..............
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       2,355,735      2,355,735
 
         ADMINISTRATION AND SERVICEWIDE
          ACTIVITIES
   090   DEFENSE CONTRACT AUDIT AGENCY..          18,474         18,474
   120   DEFENSE INFORMATION SYSTEMS              29,579         29,579
          AGENCY........................
   140   DEFENSE LEGAL SERVICES AGENCY..         110,000        110,000
   160   DEFENSE MEDIA ACTIVITY.........           5,960          5,960
   190   DEFENSE SECURITY COOPERATION          1,677,000      1,577,000
          AGENCY........................
             Reduction from Coalition                         [-100,000]
             Support Funds..............
   260   DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE EDUCATION          73,000         73,000
          ACTIVITY......................
   300   OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF              106,709        106,709
          DEFENSE.......................
   320   WASHINGTON HEADQUARTERS                   2,102          2,102
          SERVICES......................
   330   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............       1,427,074      1,427,074
             SUBTOTAL ADMINISTRATION AND       3,449,898      3,349,898
             SERVICEWIDE ACTIVITIES.....
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                5,805,633      5,705,633
              MAINTENANCE, DEFENSE-WIDE.
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               37,638,283     37,594,883
              MAINTENANCE...............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4303. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BASE REQUIREMENTS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4303. OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE BASE REQUIREMENTS (In Thousands of
                                Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                              FY 2016       Conference
  Line                 Item                   Request       Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, ARMY
         OPERATING FORCES
   030   ECHELONS ABOVE BRIGADE.........         508,008        508,008
   040   THEATER LEVEL ASSETS...........         763,300        763,300
   050   LAND FORCES OPERATIONS SUPPORT.       1,054,322      1,054,322
   060   AVIATION ASSETS................       1,546,129      1,546,129
   070   FORCE READINESS OPERATIONS            3,158,606      3,158,606
          SUPPORT.......................
   080   LAND FORCES SYSTEMS READINESS..         438,909        438,909
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       7,469,274      7,469,274
 
         MOBILIZATION
   190   ARMY PREPOSITIONED STOCKS......         261,683        261,683
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......         261,683        261,683
 
         ADMIN & SRVWIDE ACTIVITIES
   350   SERVICEWIDE TRANSPORTATION.....         485,778        485,778
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWIDE            485,778        485,778
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                8,216,735      8,216,735
              MAINTENANCE, ARMY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, NAVY
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   MISSION AND OTHER FLIGHT              4,940,365      4,940,365
          OPERATIONS....................
   020   FLEET AIR TRAINING.............       1,830,611      1,830,611
   040   AIR OPERATIONS AND SAFETY               103,456        103,456
          SUPPORT.......................
   070   AIRCRAFT DEPOT OPERATIONS                33,201         33,201
          SUPPORT.......................
   090   MISSION AND OTHER SHIP                4,287,658      4,287,658
          OPERATIONS....................
   100   SHIP OPERATIONS SUPPORT &               787,446        787,446
          TRAINING......................
   110   SHIP DEPOT MAINTENANCE.........       5,960,951      5,960,951
   120   SHIP DEPOT OPERATIONS SUPPORT..       1,554,863      1,554,863
   130   COMBAT COMMUNICATIONS..........         704,415        704,415
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..      20,202,966     20,202,966
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               20,202,966     20,202,966
              MAINTENANCE, NAVY.........
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, MARINE
          CORPS
         OPERATING FORCES
   010   OPERATIONAL FORCES.............         931,079        931,079
   020   FIELD LOGISTICS................         931,757        931,757
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       1,862,836      1,862,836
 
         TRAINING AND RECRUITING
   110   TRAINING SUPPORT...............         347,476        347,476
             SUBTOTAL TRAINING AND               347,476        347,476
             RECRUITING.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                2,210,312      2,210,312
              MAINTENANCE, MARINE CORPS.
 
         OPERATION & MAINTENANCE, AIR
          FORCE
         OPERATING FORCES
   070   GLOBAL C3I AND EARLY WARNING...         930,341        930,341
   080   OTHER COMBAT OPS SPT PROGRAMS..         924,845        924,845
   100   LAUNCH FACILITIES..............         271,177        271,177
   110   SPACE CONTROL SYSTEMS..........         382,824        382,824
   135   CLASSIFIED PROGRAMS............          14,224         14,224
             SUBTOTAL OPERATING FORCES..       2,523,411      2,523,411
 
         MOBILIZATION
   140   AIRLIFT OPERATIONS.............       2,229,196      2,229,196
   150   MOBILIZATION PREPAREDNESS......         148,318        148,318
   160   DEPOT MAINTENANCE..............       1,617,571      1,617,571
             SUBTOTAL MOBILIZATION......       3,995,085      3,995,085
 
         ADMIN & SRVWD ACTIVITIES
   340   LOGISTICS OPERATIONS...........       1,141,491      1,141,491
             SUBTOTAL ADMIN & SRVWD            1,141,491      1,141,491
             ACTIVITIES.................
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &                7,659,987      7,659,987
              MAINTENANCE, AIR FORCE....
 
              TOTAL OPERATION &               38,290,000     38,290,000
              MAINTENANCE...............
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                     TITLE XLIV--MILITARY PERSONNEL

SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
         SEC. 4401. MILITARY PERSONNEL (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2016         Conference
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....     130,491,227      129,468,888
A-10 restoration: Military Personnel..                         [132,000]
Additional support for the National                             [21,700]
 Guard's Operation Phalanx............
Basic Housing Allowance...............                         [300,000]
EC-130H Force Structure Restoration...                          [18,200]
Financial Literacy Training...........                          [85,000]
Foreign Currency adjustments..........                        [-480,500]
National Guard State Partnership                                 [4,300]
 Program increase.....................
Projected understrength...............                        [-115,839]
Unobligated balances..................                        [-987,200]
 
Medicare-Eligible Retiree Health Fund        6,243,449        6,243,449
 Contributions........................
 
  Total, Military Personnel...........     136,734,676      135,712,337
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
  SEC. 4402. MILITARY PERSONNEL FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2016         Conference
                 Item                       Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Military Personnel Appropriations.....       3,204,758        3,204,758
 
  Total, Military Personnel                  3,204,758        3,204,758
   Appropriations.....................
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                    TITLE XLV--OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS

SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
        SEC. 4501. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS (In Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2016         Conference
             Program Title                  Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY
INDUSTRIAL OPERATIONS
SUPPLY MANAGEMENT--ARMY...............          50,432           50,432
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, ARMY...          50,432           50,432
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS................          62,898           62,898
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR              62,898           62,898
   FORCE..............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT--DEF
DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA)........          45,084           45,084
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-         45,084           45,084
   WIDE...............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA
COMMISSARY RESALE STOCKS
COMMISSARY OPERATIONS.................       1,154,154        1,435,354
     Restoration of Proposed                                   [142,200]
     Efficiencies.....................
     Restoration of Savings from                               [139,000]
     Legislative Proposals............
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DECA...       1,154,154        1,435,354
 
NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND
MPF MLP
POST DELIVERY AND OUTFITTING..........          15,456           15,456
NATIONAL DEF SEALIFT VESSEL
LG MED SPD RO/RO MAINTENANCE..........         124,493          124,493
DOD MOBILIZATION ALTERATIONS..........           8,243            8,243
TAH MAINTENANCE.......................          27,784           27,784
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT..............          25,197           25,197
READY RESERVE FORCE...................         272,991          272,991
   TOTAL NATIONAL DEFENSE SEALIFT FUND         474,164          474,164
 
CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS DESTRUCTION
OPERATION & MAINTENANCE...............         139,098          139,098
RDT&E.................................         579,342          579,342
PROCUREMENT...........................           2,281            2,281
   TOTAL CHEM AGENTS & MUNITIONS               720,721          720,721
   DESTRUCTION........................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG             739,009          761,009
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
     SOUTHCOM Operational Support for                           [30,000]
     Central America..................
     Transfer to Demand Reduction                               [-8,000]
     Program..........................
DRUG DEMAND REDUCTION PROGRAM.........         111,589          119,589
     Expanded drug testing............                           [8,000]
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG          850,598          880,598
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.............         310,459          310,459
RDT&E.................................           4,700            2,100
     Funding ahead of need............                          [-2,600]
PROCUREMENT...........................           1,000           -1,000
     Program decrease.................                          [-1,000]
   TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR               316,159          312,559
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................       9,082,298        8,962,926
     Consolidated health plan                                  [-29,719]
     unauthorized.....................
     Pharmacy benefit reform                                   [-30,528]
     unauthorized.....................
     Removal of one-time fiscal year                           [-59,125]
     2016 increases...................
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................      14,892,683       14,886,930
     Access to TRICARE Prime for                                 [4,000]
     certain beneficiaties............
     TRICARE consolidation not                                  [-9,753]
     authorized.......................
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........       2,415,658        2,300,164
     Removal of one-time fiscal year                          [-115,494]
     2016 increases...................
INFORMATION MANAGEMENT................       1,677,827        1,654,814
     Removal of one-time fiscal year                           [-23,013]
     2016 increases...................
MANAGEMENT ACTIVITIES.................         327,967          325,908
     Removal of one-time fiscal year                            [-2,059]
     2016 increases...................
EDUCATION AND TRAINING................         750,614          750,614
BASE OPERATIONS/COMMUNICATIONS........       1,742,893        1,741,690
     Removal of one-time fiscal year                            [-1,203]
     2016 increase....................
RESEARCH..............................          10,996           10,996
EXPLORATRY DEVELOPMENT................          59,473           59,473
ADVANCED DEVELOPMENT..................         231,356          231,356
DEMONSTRATION/VALIDATION..............         103,443          103,443
ENGINEERING DEVELOPMENT...............         515,910          515,910
MANAGEMENT AND SUPPORT................          41,567           41,567
CAPABILITIES ENHANCEMENT..............          17,356           17,356
UNDISTRIBUTED
INITIAL OUTFITTING....................          33,392           33,392
REPLACEMENT & MODERNIZATION...........         330,504          330,504
THEATER MEDICAL INFORMATION PROGRAM...           1,494            1,494
IEHR..................................           7,897            7,897
UNDISTRIBUTED.........................                         -433,300
     Foreign Currency adjustments.....                         [-54,700]
     Unobligated balances.............                        [-378,600]
   TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.......      32,243,328       31,543,134
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........      35,917,538       35,524,944
------------------------------------------------------------------------


SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
 SEC. 4502. OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS FOR OVERSEAS CONTINGENCY OPERATIONS (In
                          Thousands of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                            FY 2016         Conference
             Program Title                  Request         Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR FORCE
SUPPLIES AND MATERIALS
TRANSPORTATION OF FALLEN HEROES.......           2,500            2,500
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, AIR               2,500            2,500
   FORCE..............................
 
WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-WIDE
SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT--DEF
DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY (DLA)........          86,350           86,350
   TOTAL WORKING CAPITAL FUND, DEFENSE-         86,350           86,350
   WIDE...............................
 
DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG
 ACTIVITIES, DEF
DRUG INTERDICTION AND COUNTER-DRUG             186,000          186,000
 ACTIVITIES, DEFENSE..................
   TOTAL DRUG INTERDICTION & CTR-DRUG          186,000          186,000
   ACTIVITIES, DEF....................
 
OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR GENERAL
OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.............          10,262           10,262
   TOTAL OFFICE OF THE INSPECTOR                10,262           10,262
   GENERAL............................
 
DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM
IN-HOUSE CARE.........................          65,149           65,149
PRIVATE SECTOR CARE...................         192,210          192,210
CONSOLIDATED HEALTH SUPPORT...........           9,460            9,460
EDUCATION AND TRAINING................           5,885            5,885
   TOTAL DEFENSE HEALTH PROGRAM.......         272,704          272,704
 
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE
UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE...........                          300,000
     Provides assistance to Ukraine...                         [300,000]
   TOTAL UKRAINE SECURITY ASSISTANCE..                          300,000
 
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND
COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS FUND....       2,100,000        1,000,000
     Program decrease.................                      [-1,100,000]
   TOTAL COUNTERTERRORISM PARTNERSHIPS       2,100,000        1,000,000
   FUND...............................
 
   TOTAL OTHER AUTHORIZATIONS.........       2,657,816        1,857,816
------------------------------------------------------------------------


                   TITLE XLVI--MILITARY CONSTRUCTION

SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                           SEC. 4601. MILITARY CONSTRUCTION (In Thousands of Dollars)
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                 State/Country and                                     FY 2016      Conference
          Account                  Installation               Project Title            Request      Authorized
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                             Alaska
Army                           Fort Greely             Physical Readiness Training         7,800          7,800
                                                        Facility.
                             California
Army                           Concord                 Pier.......................        98,000         98,000
                             Colorado
Army                           Fort Carson, Colorado   Rotary Wing Taxiway........         5,800          5,800
                             Cuba
Army                           Guantanamo Bay          Unaccompanied Personnel                 0              0
                                                        Housing.
                             Georgia
Army                           Fort Gordon             Command and Control                90,000         90,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Germany
Army                           Grafenwoehr             Vehicle Maintenance Shop...        51,000         51,000
                             Maryland
Army                           Fort Meade              Access Control Point--Mapes             0         15,000
                                                        Road.
Army                           Fort Meade              Access Control Point--Reece             0         19,500
                                                        Road.
                             New York
Army                           Fort Drum               NCO Academy Complex........        19,000         19,000
Army                           U.S. Military Academy   Waste Water Treatment Plant        70,000         70,000
                             Oklahoma
Army                           Fort Sill               Reception Barracks Complex         56,000         56,000
                                                        Ph2.
Army                           Fort Sill               Training Support Facility..        13,400         13,400
                             Texas
Army                           Corpus Christi          Powertrain Facility                85,000         85,000
                                                        (Infrastructure/Metal).
Army                           Joint Base San Antonio  Homeland Defense Operations        43,000              0
                                                        Center.
                             Virginia
Army                           Arlington National      Arlington National Cemetery             0         30,000
                                Cemetery                Southern Expansion (DAR).
Army                           Fort Lee                Training Support Facility..        33,000         33,000
Army                           Joint Base Myer-        Instruction Building.......        37,000              0
                                Henderson
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Host Nation Support........        36,000         36,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Minor Construction.........        25,000         25,000
                                Locations
Army                           Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        73,245         73,245
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Total                                                  743,245        727,745
                               ......................
                             Arizona
Navy                           Yuma                    Aircraft Maint. Facilities         50,635         50,635
                                                        & Apron (So. CALA).
                             Bahrain Island
Navy                           SW Asia                 Mina Salman Pier                   37,700         37,700
                                                        Replacement.
Navy                           SW Asia                 Ship Maintenance Support           52,091         52,091
                                                        Facility.
                             California
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          Pendleton Ops Center.......             0              0
Navy                           Camp Pendleton          Raw Water Pipeline                 44,540         44,540
                                                        Pendleton to Fallbrook.
Navy                           Coronado                Coastal Campus Utilities...         4,856          4,856
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Hangar Modernization         56,497         56,497
                                                        and Addition.
Navy                           Lemoore                 F-35C Training Facilities..         8,187          8,187
Navy                           Lemoore                 RTO and Mission Debrief             7,146          7,146
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Miramar                 KC-130J Enlisted Air Crew               0         11,200
                                                        Trainer.
Navy                           Point Mugu              E-2C/D Hangar Additions and        19,453         19,453
                                                        Renovations.
Navy                           Point Mugu              Triton Avionics and Fuel            2,974          2,974
                                                        Systems Trainer.
Navy                           San Diego               LCS Support Facility.......        37,366         37,366
Navy                           Twentynine Palms        Microgrid Expansion........         9,160          9,160
                             Florida
Navy                           Jacksonville            Fleet Support Facility              8,455          8,455
                                                        Addition.
Navy                           Jacksonville            Triton Mission Control              8,296          8,296
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Mayport                 LCS Mission Module                 16,159         16,159
                                                        Readiness Center.
Navy                           Pensacola               A-School Unaccompanied             18,347         18,347
                                                        Housing (Corry Station).
Navy                           Whiting Field           T-6B JPATS Training                10,421         10,421
                                                        Operations Facility.
                             Georgia
Navy                           Albany                  Ground Source Heat Pumps...         7,851          7,851
Navy                           Kings Bay               Industrial Control System           8,099          8,099
                                                        Infrastructure.
Navy                           Townsend                Townsend Bombing Range             48,279         43,279
                                                        Expansion Phase 2.
                             Guam
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Live-Fire Training Range          125,677        125,677
                                                        Complex (NW Field).
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Municipal Solid Waste              10,777         10,777
                                                        Landfill Closure.
Navy                           Joint Region Marianas   Sanitary Sewer System              45,314         45,314
                                                        Recapitalization.
                             Hawaii
Navy                           Barking Sands           PMRF Power Grid                    30,623         30,623
                                                        Consolidation.
Navy                           Joint Base Pearl        UEM Interconnect Sta C to           6,335          6,335
                                Harbor-Hickam           Hickam.
Navy                           Joint Base Pearl        Welding School Shop                 8,546          8,546
                                Harbor-Hickam           Consolidation.
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             Airfield Lighting                  26,097         26,097
                                                        Modernization.
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             Bachelor Enlisted Quarters.        68,092         68,092
Navy                           Kaneohe Bay             P-8A Detachment Support            12,429         12,429
                                                        Facilities.
Navy                           MCB Hawaii              LHD Pad Conversions MV-22               0              0
                                                        Landing Pads.
                             Italy
Navy                           Sigonella               P-8A Hangar and Fleet              62,302         62,302
                                                        Support Facility.
Navy                           Sigonella               Triton Hangar and Operation        40,641         40,641
                                                        Facility.
                             Japan
Navy                           Camp Butler             Military Working Dog               11,697         11,697
                                                        Facilities (Camp Hansen).
Navy                           Iwakuni                 E-2D Operational Trainer            8,716          8,716
                                                        Complex.
Navy                           Iwakuni                 Security Modifications--            9,207          9,207
                                                        CVW5/MAG12 HQ.
Navy                           Kadena AB               Aircraft Maint. Shelters &         23,310         23,310
                                                        Apron.
Navy                           Yokosuka                Child Development Center...        13,846         13,846
                             Maryland
Navy                           Patuxent River          Unaccompanied Housing......        40,935         40,935
                             North Carolina
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            2nd Radio BN Complex                    0              0
                                                        Operations Consolidation.
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            Range Safety Improvements..             0              0
Navy                           Camp Lejeune            Simulator Integration/Range        54,849         54,849
                                                        Control Facility.
Navy                           Cherry Point Marine     Air Field Security                      0         23,300
                                Corps Air Station       Improvements.
Navy                           Cherry Point Marine     KC-130J Enlsited Air Crew           4,769          4,769
                                Corps Air Station       Trainer Facility.
Navy                           Cherry Point Marine     Unmanned Aircraft System           29,657         29,657
                                Corps Air Station       Facilities.
Navy                           New River               Operational Trainer                 3,312          3,312
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           New River               Radar Air Traffic Control           4,918          4,918
                                                        Facility Addition.
                             Poland
Navy                           RedziKowo Base          AEGIS Ashore Missile               51,270         51,270
                                                        Defense Complex.
                             South Carolina
Navy                           Parris Island           Range Safety Improvements &        27,075         27,075
                                                        Modernization.
                             Virginia
Navy                           Dam Neck                Maritime Surveillance              23,066         23,066
                                                        System Facility.
Navy                           Norfolk                 Communications Center......        75,289         75,289
Navy                           Norfolk                 Electrical Repairs to Piers        44,254         44,254
                                                        2,6,7, and 11.
Navy                           Norfolk                 MH-60 Helicopter Training           7,134          7,134
                                                        Facility.
Navy                           Portsmouth              Waterfront Utilities.......        45,513         45,513
Navy                           Quantico                ATFP Gate..................         5,840          5,840
Navy                           Quantico                Electrical Distribution             8,418          8,418
                                                        Upgrade.
Navy                           Quantico                Embassy Security Guard BEQ         43,941         43,941
                                                        & Ops Facility.
Navy                           Quantico                TBS Fire Station                        0              0
                                                        Replacement.
                             Washington
Navy                           Bangor                  Regional Ship Maintenance               0              0
                                                        Support Facility.
Navy                           Bangor                  WRA Land/Water Interface...        34,177         34,177
Navy                           Bremerton               Dry Dock 6 Modernization &         22,680         22,680
                                                        Utility Improve..
Navy                           Indian Island           Shore Power to Ammunition           4,472          4,472
                                                        Pier.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   MCON Design Funds..........        91,649         91,649
                                Locations
Navy                           Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  22,590         22,590
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Navy Total                                                1,605,929      1,635,429
                               ......................
                             Alaska
AF                             Eielson AFB             F-35A Flight Sim/Alter             37,000         37,000
                                                        Squad Ops/AMU Facility.
AF                             Eielson AFB             Rpr Central Heat & Power           34,400         34,400
                                                        Plant Boiler Ph3.
                             Arizona
AF                             Davis-Monthan AFB       HC-130J Age Covered Storage         4,700          4,700
AF                             Davis-Monthan AFB       HC-130J Wash Rack..........        12,200         12,200
AF                             Luke AFB                Communications Facility....             0         21,000
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35A ADAL Fuel Offload             5,000          5,000
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35A Aircraft Maintenance         13,200         13,200
                                                        Hangar/Sq 3.
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35A Bomb Build-up                 5,500          5,500
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Luke AFB                F-35A Sq Ops/AMU/Hangar/Sq         33,000         33,000
                                                        4.
                             Colorado
AF                             U.S. Air Force Academy  Front Gates Force                  10,000         10,000
                                                        Protection Enhancements.
                             Florida
AF                             Cape Canaveral AFS      Range Communications               21,000         21,000
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Eglin AFB               F-35A Consolidated HQ               8,700          8,700
                                                        Facility.
AF                             Hurlburt Field          ADAL 39 Information                14,200         14,200
                                                        Operations Squad Facility.
                             Greenland
AF                             Thule AB                Thule Consolidation PH 1...        41,965         41,965
                             Guam
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   APR--Dispersed Maint Spares        19,000         19,000
                                                        & SE Storage Fac.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   APR--Installation Control          22,200         22,200
                                                        Center.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   APR--South Ramp Utilities           7,100          7,100
                                                        Phase 2.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   PAR--Lo/Corrosion Cntrl/                0              0
                                                        Composite Repair.
AF                             Joint Region Marianas   PRTC Roads.................         2,500          2,500
                             Hawaii
AF                             Joint Base Pearl        F-22 Fighter Alert Facility        46,000         46,000
                                Harbor-Hickam
                             Japan
AF                             Yokota AB               C-130J Flight Simulator             8,461          8,461
                                                        Facility.
                             Kansas
AF                             Mcconnell AFB           Air Traffic Control Tower..             0              0
AF                             Mcconnell AFB           KC-46A ADAL Deicing Pads...         4,300          4,300
                             Louisiana
AF                             Barksdale AFB           Consolidated Communications             0              0
                                                        Facility.
                             Maryland
AF                             Fort Meade              CYBERCOM Joint Operations          86,000         86,000
                                                        Center, Increment 3.
                             Missouri
AF                             Whiteman AFB            Consolidated Stealth Ops &         29,500         29,500
                                                        Nuclear Alert Fac.
                             Montana
AF                             Malmstrom AFB           Tactical Response Force            19,700         19,700
                                                        Alert Facility.
                             Nebraska
AF                             Offutt AFB              Dormitory (144 RM).........        21,000         21,000
                             Nevada
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-35A Airfield Pavements...        31,000         31,000
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-35A Live Ordnance Loading        34,500         34,500
                                                        Area.
AF                             Nellis AFB              F-35A Munitions Maintenance         3,450          3,450
                                                        Facilities.
                             New Mexico
AF                             Cannon AFB              Construct AT/FP Gate--              7,800          7,800
                                                        Portales.
AF                             Holloman AFB            Fixed Ground Control.......             0              0
AF                             Holloman AFB            Marshalling Area ARM/DE-ARM         3,000          3,000
                                                        Pad D.
AF                             Kirtland AFB            Space Vehicles Component           12,800         12,800
                                                        Development Lab.
                             New York
AF                             Fort Drum               ASOS Expansion.............             0              0
                             Niger
AF                             Agadez                  Construct Airfield and Base        50,000         50,000
                                                        Camp.
                             North Carolina
AF                             Seymour Johnson AFB     Air Traffic Control Tower/         17,100         17,100
                                                        Base Ops Facility.
                             Oklahoma
AF                             Altus AFB               Dormitory (120 RM).........        18,000         18,000
AF                             Altus AFB               KC-46A FTU ADAL Fuel Cell          10,400         10,400
                                                        Maint Hangar.
AF                             Tinker AFB              Air Traffic Control Tower..        12,900         12,900
AF                             Tinker AFB              KC-46A Depot Maintenance           37,000         37,000
                                                        Dock.
                             Oman
AF                             Al Musannah AB          Airlift Apron..............        25,000         25,000
                             South Dakota
AF                             Ellsworth AFB           Dormitory (168 RM).........        23,000         23,000
                             Texas
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  BMT Classrooms/Dining              35,000         35,000
                                                        Facility 3.
AF                             Joint Base San Antonio  BMT Recruit Dormitory 5....        71,000         71,000
                             United Kingdom
AF                             RAF Croughton           Consolidated SATCOM/Tech           36,424         36,424
                                                        Control Facility.
AF                             RAF Croughton           JIAC Consolidation--PH 2...        94,191         94,191
                             Utah
AF                             Hill AFB                F-35A Flight Simulator              5,900          5,900
                                                        Addition Phase 2.
AF                             Hill AFB                F-35A Hangar 40/42                 21,000         21,000
                                                        Additions and AMU.
AF                             Hill AFB                Hayman Igloos..............        11,500         11,500
                             Worldwide Classified
AF                             Classified Location     Long Range Strike Bomber...        77,130         77,130
AF                             Classified Location     Munitions Storage..........         3,000          3,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF                             Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        89,164         89,164
                                Locations
AF                             Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor Military         22,900         22,900
                                Locations               Construction.
                             Wyoming
AF                             F. E. Warren AFB        Weapon Storage Facility....        95,000         95,000
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Total                                           1,354,785      1,375,785
                               ......................
                             Alabama
Def-Wide                       Fort Rucker             Fort Rucker ES/PS                  46,787         46,787
                                                        Consolidation/Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Maxwell AFB             Maxwell ES/MS Replacement/         32,968         32,968
                                                        Renovation.
                             Arizona
Def-Wide                       Fort Huachuca           JITC Buildings 52101/52111          3,884          3,884
                                                        Renovations.
                             California
Def-Wide                       Camp Pendleton          SOF Combat Service Support         10,181         10,181
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Camp Pendleton          SOF Performance Resiliency         10,371         10,371
                                                        Center-West.
Def-Wide                       Coronado                SOF Logistics Support Unit         47,218         47,218
                                                        One Ops Fac. #2.
Def-Wide                       Fresno Yosemite IAP     Replace Fuel Storage and           10,700         10,700
                                ANG                     Distrib. Facilities.
                             Colorado
Def-Wide                       Fort Carson, Colorado   SOF Language Training               8,243          8,243
                                                        Facility.
                             Conus Classified
Def-Wide                       Classified Location     Operations Support Facility        20,065         20,065
                             Delaware
Def-Wide                       Dover AFB               Construct Hydrant Fuel             21,600         21,600
                                                        System.
                             Djibouti
Def-Wide                       Camp Lemonier           Construct Fuel Storage &           43,700         43,700
                                                        Distrib. Facilities.
                             Florida
Def-Wide                       Hurlburt Field          SOF Fuel Cell Maintenance          17,989         17,989
                                                        Hangar.
Def-Wide                       MacDill AFB             SOF Operational Support            39,142         39,142
                                                        Facility.
                             Georgia
Def-Wide                       Moody AFB               Replace Pumphouse and Truck        10,900         10,900
                                                        Fillstands.
                             Germany
Def-Wide                       Garmisch                Garmisch E/MS-Addition/            14,676         14,676
                                                        Modernization.
Def-Wide                       Grafenwoehr             Grafenwoehr Elementary             38,138         38,138
                                                        School Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Rhine Ordnance          Medical Center Replacement         85,034         85,034
                                Barracks                Incr 5.
Def-Wide                       Spangdahlem AB          Construct Fuel Pipeline....         5,500          5,500
Def-Wide                       Spangdahlem AB          Medical/Dental Clinic              34,071         34,071
                                                        Addition.
Def-Wide                       Stuttgart-Patch         Patch Elementary School            49,413         49,413
                                Barracks                Replacement.
                             Hawaii
Def-Wide                       Kaneohe Bay             Medical/Dental Clinic             122,071        122,071
                                                        Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Schofield Barracks      Behavioral Health/Dental          123,838        123,838
                                                        Clinic Addition.
                             Japan
Def-Wide                       Kadena AB               Airfield Pavements.........        37,485         37,485
                             Kentucky
Def-Wide                       Fort Campbell,          SOF Company HQ/Classrooms..        12,553         12,553
                                Kentucky
Def-Wide                       Fort Knox               Fort Knox HS Renovation/MS         23,279         23,279
                                                        Addition.
                             Maryland
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Campus Feeders Phase 2        33,745         33,745
Def-Wide                       Fort Meade              NSAW Recapitalize Building         34,897         34,897
                                                        #2 Incr 1.
                             Nevada
Def-Wide                       Nellis AFB              Replace Hydrant Fuel System        39,900         39,900
                             New Mexico
Def-Wide                       Cannon AFB              Construct Pumphouse and            20,400         20,400
                                                        Fuel Storage.
Def-Wide                       Cannon AFB              SOF Squadron Operations            11,565         11,565
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Cannon AFB              SOF ST Operational Training        13,146         13,146
                                                        Facilities.
                             New York
Def-Wide                       West Point              West Point Elementary              55,778         55,778
                                                        School Replacement.
                             North Carolina
Def-Wide                       Camp Lejeune            SOF Combat Service Support         14,036         14,036
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Camp Lejeune            SOF Marine Battalion               54,970         54,970
                                                        Company/Team Facilities.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              Butner Elementary School           32,944         32,944
                                                        Replacement.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF 21 STS Operations              16,863         16,863
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Battalion Operations           38,549         38,549
                                                        Facility.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Indoor Range...........         8,303          8,303
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Intelligence Training          28,265         28,265
                                                        Center.
Def-Wide                       Fort Bragg              SOF Special Tactics                43,887         43,887
                                                        Facility (PH 2).
                             Ohio
Def-Wide                       Wright-Patterson AFB    Satellite Pharmacy                  6,623          6,623
                                                        Replacement.
                             Oregon
Def-Wide                       Klamath Falls IAP       Replace Fuel Facilities....         2,500          2,500
                             Pennsylvania
Def-Wide                       Philadelphia            Replace Headquarters.......        49,700         49,700
                             Poland
Def-Wide                       RedziKowo Base          AEGIS Ashore Missile              169,153        169,153
                                                        Defense System Complex.
                             South Carolina
Def-Wide                       Fort Jackson            Pierce Terrace Elementary          26,157         26,157
                                                        School Replacement.
                             Spain
Def-Wide                       Rota                    Rota ES and HS Additions...        13,737         13,737
                             Texas
Def-Wide                       Fort Bliss              Hospital Replacement Incr 7       239,884        189,884
Def-Wide                       Joint Base San Antonio  Ambulatory Care Center             61,776         61,776
                                                        Phase 4.
                             Virginia
Def-Wide                       Fort Belvoir            Construct Visitor Control           5,000          5,000
                                                        Center.
Def-Wide                       Fort Belvoir            Replace Ground Vehicle              4,500          4,500
                                                        Fueling Facility.
Def-Wide                       Joint Base Langley-     Replace Fuel Pier and              28,000         28,000
                                Eustis                  Distribution Facility.
Def-Wide                       Joint Expeditionary     SOF Applied Instruction            23,916         23,916
                                Base Little Creek--     Facility.
                                Story
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Contingency Construction...        10,000              0
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   ECIP Design................        10,000         10,000
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Energy Conservation               150,000        150,000
                                Locations               Investment Program.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Exercise Related Minor              8,687          8,687
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        13,500         13,500
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        42,183         42,183
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        31,628         31,628
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         1,078          1,078
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         3,041          3,041
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        27,202         27,202
                                Locations
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   5,000          5,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   3,000          3,000
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  15,676         15,676
                                Locations               Construction.
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       East Coast Missile Site                 0         30,000
                                Locations               Planning and Design.
Def-Wide                       Various Worldwide       Planning & Design..........        31,772         31,772
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Defense-Wide Total                                        2,300,767      2,270,767
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
NATO                           NATO Security           NATO Security Investment          120,000        120,000
                                Investment Program      Program.
                             ........................
      NATO Security Investment Program Total                                             120,000        120,000
                               ......................
                             Alabama
Army NG                        Camp Foley              Vehicle Maintenance Shop...             0          4,500
                             Connecticut
Army NG                        Camp Hartell            Ready Building (CST-WMD)...        11,000         11,000
                             Delaware
Army NG                        Dagsboro                National Guard Vehicle             10,800         10,800
                                                        Maintenance Shop.
                             Florida
Army NG                        Palm Coast              National Guard Readiness           18,000         18,000
                                                        Center.
                             Georgia
Army NG                        Fort Stewart            Tactical Aerial Unmanned                0          6,800
                                                        Systems.
                             Illinois
Army NG                        Sparta                  Basic 10M-25M Firing Range          1,900          1,900
                                                        (Zero).
                             Kansas
Army NG                        Salina                  Automated Combat Pistol/MP          2,400          2,400
                                                        Firearms Qual Course.
Army NG                        Salina                  Modified Record Fire Range.         4,300          4,300
                             Maryland
Army NG                        Easton                  National Guard Readiness           13,800         13,800
                                                        Center.
                             Mississippi
Army NG                        Gulfport                Aviation Classification and             0         40,000
                                                        Repair.
                             Nevada
Army NG                        Reno                    National Guard Vehicle              8,000          8,000
                                                        Maintenance Shop Add/Alt.
                             Ohio
Army NG                        Camp Ravenna            Modified Record Fire Range.         3,300          3,300
                             Oregon
Army NG                        Salem                   National Guard/Reserve             16,500         16,500
                                                        Center Bldg Add/Alt (JFHQ).
                             Pennsylvania
Army NG                        Fort Indiantown Gap     Training Aids Center.......        16,000         16,000
                             Vermont
Army NG                        North Hyde Park         National Guard Vehicle              7,900          7,900
                                                        Maintenance Shop Addition.
                             Virginia
Army NG                        Richmond                National Guard/Reserve             29,000         29,000
                                                        Center Building (JFHQ).
                             Washington
Army NG                        Yakima                  Enlisted Barracks,                 19,000         19,000
                                                        Transient Training.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........        20,337         20,337
                                Locations
Army NG                        Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                  15,000         15,000
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army National Guard Total                                   197,237        248,537
                               ......................
                             California
Army Res                       Miramar                 Army Reserve Center........        24,000         24,000
                             Florida
Army Res                       MacDill AFB             AR Center/AS Facility......        55,000         55,000
                             Mississippi
Army Res                       Starkville              Army Reserve Center........         9,300          9,300
                             New York
Army Res                       Orangeburg              Organizational Maintenance          4,200          4,200
                                                        Shop.
                             Pennsylvania
Army Res                       Conneaut Lake           DAR Highway Improvement....         5,000          5,000
                             Puerto Rico
Army Res                       Fort Buchanan           Access Control Point.......             0         10,200
                             Virginia
Army Res                       Fort AP Hill            Equipment Concentration....             0         24,000
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         9,318          9,318
                                Locations
Army Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   Unspecified Minor                   6,777          6,777
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Army Reserve Total                                          113,595        147,795
                               ......................
                             Nevada
N/MC Res                       Fallon                  NAVOPSPTCEN Fallon.........        11,480         11,480
                             New York
N/MC Res                       Brooklyn                Reserve Center Storage              2,479          2,479
                                                        Facility.
                             Virginia
N/MC Res                       Dam Neck                Reserve Training Center            18,443         18,443
                                                        Complex.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Planning & Design.....         2,208          2,208
                                Locations
N/MC Res                       Unspecified Worldwide   MCNR Unspecified Minor              1,468          1,468
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Naval Reserve Total                                          36,078         36,078
                               ......................
                             Alabama
Air NG                         Dannelly Field          TFI--Replace Squadron               7,600          7,600
                                                        Operations Facility.
                             Arkansas
Air NG                         Fort Smith MAP          Consolidated SCIF..........             0              0
                             California
Air NG                         Moffett Field           Replace Vehicle Maintenance         6,500          6,500
                                                        Facility.
                             Colorado
Air NG                         Buckley AFB             ASE Maintenance and Storage         5,100          5,100
                                                        Facility.
                             Connecticut
Air NG                         Bradley                 Ops and Deployment Facility             0              0
                             Florida
Air NG                         Cape Canaveral AFS      Space Control Facility.....             0          6,100
                             Georgia
Air NG                         Savannah/Hilton Head    C-130 Squadron Operations           9,000          9,000
                                IAP                     Facility.
                             Hawaii
Air NG                         Joint Base Pearl        F-22 Composite Repair                   0              0
                                Harbor-Hickam           Facility.
                             Iowa
Air NG                         Des Moines MAP          Air Operations Grp/CYBER            6,700          6,700
                                                        Beddown-Reno Blg 430.
                             Kansas
Air NG                         Smokey Hill ANG Range   Range Training Support              2,900          2,900
                                                        Facilities.
                             Louisiana
Air NG                         New Orleans             Replace Squadron Operations        10,000         10,000
                                                        Facility.
                             Maine
Air NG                         Bangor IAP              Add to and Alter Fire Crash/        7,200          7,200
                                                        Rescue Station.
                             New Hampshire
Air NG                         Pease International     Bldg Mod KC-46 Fuselage                 0              0
                                Trade Port              Trainer.
Air NG                         Pease International     KC-46A ADAL Flight                  2,800          2,800
                                Trade Port              Simulator Bldg 156.
                             New Jersey
Air NG                         Atlantic City IAP       Fuel Cell and Corrosion            10,200         10,200
                                                        Control Hangar.
                             New York
Air NG                         Niagara Falls IAP       Remotely Piloted Aircraft           7,700          7,700
                                                        Beddown Bldg 912.
                             North Carolina
Air NG                         Charlotte/Douglas IAP   Replace C-130 Squadron              9,000          9,000
                                                        Operations Facility.
                             North Dakota
Air NG                         Hector IAP              Intel Targeting Facilities.         7,300          7,300
                             Oklahoma
Air NG                         Will Rogers World       Medium Altitude Manned ISR          7,600          7,600
                                Airport                 Beddown.
                             Oregon
Air NG                         Klamath Falls IAP       Replace Fire Crash/Rescue           7,200          7,200
                                                        Station.
                             West Virginia
Air NG                         Yeager Airport          Force Protection- Relocate          3,900          3,900
                                                        Coonskin Road.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
Air NG                         Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........         5,104          5,104
                                Locations
Air NG                         Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor                   7,734          7,734
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air National Guard Total                                    123,538        129,638
                               ......................
                             Arizona
AF Res                         Davis-Monthan AFB       Guardian Angel Operations..             0              0
                             California
AF Res                         March AFB               Satellite Fire Station.....         4,600          4,600
                             Florida
AF Res                         Patrick AFB             Aircrew Life Support                3,400          3,400
                                                        Facility.
                             Georgia
AF Res                         Dobbins                 Fire Station/Security                   0         10,400
                                                        Complex.
                             Ohio
AF Res                         Youngstown              Indoor Firing Range........         9,400          9,400
                             Texas
AF Res                         Joint Base San Antonio  Consolidate 433 Medical             9,900          9,900
                                                        Facility.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
AF Res                         Various Worldwide       Planning and Design........        13,400         13,400
                                Locations
AF Res                         Various Worldwide       Unspecified Minor Military          6,121          6,121
                                Locations               Construction.
                             ........................
      Military Construction, Air Force Reserve Total                                      46,821         57,221
                               ......................
                             Florida
FH Con Army                    Camp Rudder             Family Housing Replacement          8,000          8,000
                                                        Construction.
                             Germany
FH Con Army                    Wiesbaden Army          Family Housing Improvements         3,500          3,500
                                Airfield
                             Illinois
FH Con Army                    Rock Island             Family Housing Replacement         20,000         20,000
                                                        Construction.
                             Korea
FH Con Army                    Camp Walker             Family Housing New                 61,000         61,000
                                                        Construction.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Family Housing P & D.......         7,195          7,195
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Army Total                                             99,695         99,695
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings................        25,552         25,552
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leased Housing.............       144,879        144,879
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                75,197         75,197
                                Locations               Property Facilities.
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........        45,468         45,468
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........         3,047          3,047
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Military Housing                   22,000         22,000
                                Locations               Privitization Initiative.
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous..............           840            840
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services...................        10,928         10,928
                                Locations
FH Ops Army                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities..................        65,600         65,600
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Army Total                               393,511        393,511
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Improvements...............       150,649        150,649
                                Locations
FH Con AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Planning and Design........         9,849          9,849
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Air Force Total                                       160,498        160,498
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........        38,746         38,746
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Privatization......        41,554         41,554
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        28,867         28,867
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance................       114,129        114,129
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........        52,153         52,153
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous Account......         2,032          2,032
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services Account...........        12,940         12,940
                                Locations
FH Ops AF                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........        40,811         40,811
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Air Force Total                          331,232        331,232
                               ......................
                             Virginia
FH Con Navy                    Wallops Island          Construct Housing Welcome             438            438
                                                        Center.
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Design.....................         4,588          4,588
                                Locations
FH Con Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Improvements...............        11,515         11,515
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Construction, Navy And Marine Corps Total                            16,541         16,541
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........        17,534         17,534
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        64,108         64,108
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                99,323         99,323
                                Locations               Property.
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........        56,189         56,189
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Miscellaneous Account......           373            373
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Privatization Support Costs        28,668         28,668
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Services Account...........        19,149         19,149
                                Locations
FH Ops Navy                    Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........        67,692         67,692
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Navy And Marine Corps Total              353,036        353,036
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........           781            781
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........            20             20
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Furnishings Account........         3,402          3,402
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        10,679         10,679
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Leasing....................        41,273         41,273
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                   344            344
                                Locations               Property.
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Maintenance of Real                 1,104          1,104
                                Locations               Property.
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Management Account.........           388            388
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Services Account...........            31             31
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........           172            172
                                Locations
FH Ops DW                      Unspecified Worldwide   Utilities Account..........           474            474
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Family Housing Operation And Maintenance, Defense-Wide Total                        58,668         58,668
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment and               29,691         29,691
                                Closure, Army           Closure.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Army Total                                            29,691         29,691
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DOD BRAC Activities--Air           64,555         64,555
                                Locations               Force.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Air Force Total                                       64,555         64,555
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
BRAC                           Base Realignment &      Base Realignment & Closure.       118,906        118,906
                                Closure, Navy
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-100: Planing, Design            7,787          7,787
                                Locations               and Management.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-101: Various Locations.        20,871         20,871
                                Locations
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-138: NAS Brunswick, ME.           803            803
                                Locations
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-157: MCSA Kansas City,             41             41
                                Locations               MO.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-172: NWS Seal Beach,            4,872          4,872
                                Locations               Concord, CA.
BRAC                           Unspecified Worldwide   DON-84: JRB Willow Grove &          3,808          3,808
                                Locations               Cambria Reg AP.
                             ........................
      Base Realignment and Closure--Navy Total                                           157,088        157,088
                               ......................
                             Worldwide Unspecified
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   Air Force..................             0        -34,400
                                Locations
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   Army.......................             0        -56,600
                                Locations
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   Defense-Wide...............             0       -134,000
                                Locations
PYS                            Unspecified Worldwide   Housing Assistance Program.             0       -110,000
                                Locations
                             ........................
      Prior Year Savings Total                                                                 0       -335,000
                               ......................
      Total, Military Construction                                                     8,463,598      8,235,598
----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------


      TITLE XLVII--DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS

SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
SEC. 4701. DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY NATIONAL SECURITY PROGRAMS (In Thousands
                               of Dollars)
-------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                               FY 2016      Conference
                  Program                      Request      Authorized
------------------------------------------------------------------------
Discretionary Summary By Appropriation
  Energy And Water Development, And
   Related Agencies
  Appropriation Summary:
    Energy Programs
      Nuclear Energy......................       135,161        135,161
 
    Atomic Energy Defense Activities
      National nuclear security
       administration:
        Weapons activities................     8,846,948      8,802,797
        Defense nuclear nonproliferation..     1,940,302      1,941,500
        Naval reactors....................     1,375,496      1,359,996
        Federal salaries and expenses.....       402,654        388,000
      Total, National nuclear security        12,565,400     12,492,293
       administration.....................
 
      Environmental and other defense
       activities:
        Defense environmental cleanup.....     5,527,347      5,130,550
        Other defense activities..........       774,425        770,522
      Total, Environmental & other defense     6,301,772      5,901,072
       activities.........................
    Total, Atomic Energy Defense              18,867,172     18,393,365
     Activities...........................
Total, Discretionary Funding..............    19,002,333     18,528,526
 
Nuclear Energy
  Idaho sitewide safeguards and security..       126,161        126,161
  Used nuclear fuel disposition...........         9,000          9,000
Total, Nuclear Energy.....................       135,161        135,161
 
Weapons Activities
  Directed stockpile work
    Life extension programs
      B61 Life extension program..........       643,300        643,300
      W76 Life extension program..........       244,019        244,019
      W88 Alt 370.........................       220,176        220,176
      W80-4 Life extension program........       195,037        195,037
    Total, Life extension programs........     1,302,532      1,302,532
 
    Stockpile systems
      B61 Stockpile systems...............        52,247         52,247
      W76 Stockpile systems...............        50,921         50,921
      W78 Stockpile systems...............        64,092         64,092
      W80 Stockpile systems...............        68,005         68,005
      B83 Stockpile systems...............        42,177         42,177
      W87 Stockpile systems...............        89,299         89,299
      W88 Stockpile systems...............       115,685        115,685
    Total, Stockpile systems..............       482,426        482,426
 
    Weapons dismantlement and disposition
      Operations and maintenance..........        48,049         48,049
 
    Stockpile services
      Production support..................       447,527        447,527
      Research and development support....        34,159         34,159
      R&D certification and safety........       192,613        185,000
      Management, technology, and                264,994        258,527
       production.........................
    Total, Stockpile services.............       939,293        925,213
 
    Nuclear material commodities
      Uranium sustainment.................        32,916         32,916
      Plutonium sustainment...............       174,698        174,698
      Tritium sustainment.................       107,345        107,345
      Domestic uranium enrichment.........       100,000         50,000
    Total, Nuclear material commodities...       414,959        364,959
  Total, Directed stockpile work..........     3,187,259      3,123,179
 
  Research, development, test and
   evaluation (RDT&E)
    Science
      Advanced certification..............        50,714         50,714
      Primary assessment technologies.....        98,500        104,100
      Dynamic materials properties........       109,000        109,000
      Advanced radiography................        47,000         47,000
      Secondary assessment technologies...        84,400         84,400
    Total, Science........................       389,614        395,214
 
    Engineering
      Enhanced surety.....................        50,821         50,821
      Weapon systems engineering                  17,371         17,371
       assessment technology..............
      Nuclear survivability...............        24,461         24,461
      Enhanced surveillance...............        38,724         38,724
    Total, Engineering ...................       131,377        131,377
 
    Inertial confinement fusion ignition
     and high yield
      Ignition............................        73,334         73,334
      Support of other stockpile programs.        22,843         22,843
      Diagnostics, cryogenics and                 58,587         58,587
       experimental support...............
      Pulsed power inertial confinement            4,963          4,963
       fusion.............................
      Joint program in high energy density         8,900          8,900
       laboratory plasmas.................
      Facility operations and target             333,823        333,823
       production.........................
    Total, Inertial confinement fusion and       502,450        502,450
     high yield...........................
 
    Advanced simulation and computing.....       623,006        617,006
 
    Responsive Capabilities Program.......             0              0
 
    Advanced manufacturing
      Component manufacturing development.       112,256         93,448
      Processing technology development...        17,800         17,800
    Total, Advanced manufacturing.........       130,056        111,248
  Total, RDT&E............................     1,776,503      1,757,295
 
  Readiness in technical base and
   facilities (RTBF)
    Operating
      Program readiness...................        75,185         60,000
      Material recycle and recovery.......       173,859        160,000
      Storage.............................        40,920         40,920
      Recapitalization....................       104,327        100,000
    Total, Operating......................       394,291        360,920
 
    Construction:
      15-D-302 TA-55 Reinvestment project,        18,195         18,195
       Phase 3, LANL......................
      11-D-801 TA-55 Reinvestment project          3,903          3,903
       Phase 2, LANL......................
      07-D-220 Radioactive liquid waste           11,533         11,533
       treatment facility upgrade project,
       LANL...............................
      07-D-220-04 Transuranic liquid waste        40,949         40,949
       facility, LANL.....................
      06-D-141 PED/Construction, Uranium         430,000        430,000
       Capabilities Replacement Project Y-
       12.................................
      04-D-125 Chemistry and metallurgy          155,610        155,610
       replacement project, LANL..........
    Total, Construction...................       660,190        660,190
  Total, Readiness in technical base and       1,054,481      1,021,110
   facilities.............................
 
  Secure transportation asset
    Operations and equipment..............       146,272        140,000
    Program direction.....................       105,338         97,118
  Total, Secure transportation asset......       251,610        237,118
 
  Infrastructure and safety
    Operations of facilities
      Kansas City Plant...................       100,250        100,250
      Lawrence Livermore National                 70,671         70,671
       Laboratory.........................
      Los Alamos National Laboratory......       196,460        196,460
      Nevada National Security Site.......        89,000         89,000
      Pantex..............................        58,021         58,021
      Sandia National Laboratory..........       115,300        115,300
      Savannah River Site.................        80,463         80,463
      Y-12 National security complex......       120,625        120,625
    Total, Operations of facilities.......       830,790        830,790
 
    Safety operations.....................       107,701        107,701
    Maintenance...........................       227,000        252,000
    Recapitalization......................       257,724        307,724
    Construction:
      16-D-621 Substation replacement at          25,000         25,000
       TA-3, LANL.........................
      15-D-613 Emergency Operations               17,919         17,919
       Center, Y-12.......................
    Total, Construction...................        42,919         42,919
  Total, Infrastructure and safety........     1,466,134      1,541,134
 
  Site stewardship
    Nuclear materials integration.........        17,510         17,510
    Minority serving institution                  19,085         19,085
     partnerships program.................
  Total, Site stewardship.................        36,595         36,595
 
  Defense nuclear security
    Operations and maintenance............       619,891        631,891
    Construction:
      14-D-710 Device assembly facility           13,000         13,000
       argus installation project, NV.....
  Total, Defense nuclear security.........       632,891        644,891
 
  Information technology and cybersecurity       157,588        157,588
  Legacy contractor pensions..............       283,887        283,887
Total, Weapons Activities.................     8,846,948      8,802,797
 
 
Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
  Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation
   Programs
    Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D
      Global material security............       426,751        422,949
      Material management and minimization       311,584        311,584
      Nonproliferation and arms control...       126,703        126,703
      Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation R&D       419,333        419,333
 
      Nonproliferation Construction:
        99-D-143 Mixed Oxide (MOX) Fuel          345,000        345,000
         Fabrication Facility, SRS........
        Analysis of Alternatives..........             0          5,000
      Total, Nonproliferation construction       345,000        350,000
    Total, Defense Nuclear                     1,629,371      1,630,569
     Nonproliferation Programs............
 
  Legacy contractor pensions..............        94,617         94,617
  Nuclear counterterrorism and incident          234,390        234,390
   response program.......................
  Use of prior-year balances..............       -18,076        -18,076
Total, Defense Nuclear Nonproliferation...     1,940,302      1,941,500
 
 
Naval Reactors
  Naval reactors operations and                  445,196        445,196
   infrastructure.........................
  Naval reactors development..............       444,400        430,400
  Ohio replacement reactor systems               186,800        186,800
   development............................
  S8G Prototype refueling.................       133,000        133,000
  Program direction.......................        45,000         43,500
  Construction:
    15-D-904 NRF Overpack Storage                    900            900
     Expansion 3..........................
    15-D-903 KL Fire System Upgrade.......           600            600
    15-D-902 KS Engineroom team trainer            3,100          3,100
     facility.............................
    14-D-902 KL Materials characterization        30,000         30,000
     laboratory expansion, KAPL...........
    14-D-901 Spent fuel handling                  86,000         86,000
     recapitalization project, NRF........
    10-D-903, Security upgrades, KAPL.....           500            500
  Total, Construction.....................       121,100        121,100
Total, Naval Reactors.....................     1,375,496      1,359,996
 
 
Federal Salaries And Expenses
  Program direction.......................       402,654        388,000
Total, Office Of The Administrator........       402,654        388,000
 
 
Defense Environmental Cleanup
  Closure sites:
    Closure sites administration..........         4,889          4,889
 
  Hanford site:
    River corridor and other cleanup
     operations:
      River corridor and other cleanup           196,957        268,957
       operations.........................
 
    Central plateau remediation:
      Central plateau remediation.........       555,163        555,163
    Richland community and regulatory             14,701         14,701
     support..............................
    Construction:
      15-D-401 Containerized sludge               77,016         77,016
       removal annex, RL..................
  Total, Hanford site.....................       843,837        915,837
 
  Idaho National Laboratory:
    Idaho cleanup and waste disposition...       357,783        357,783
    Idaho community and regulatory support         3,000          3,000
  Total, Idaho National Laboratory........       360,783        360,783
 
  NNSA sites
    Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory         1,366          1,366
    Nevada................................        62,385         62,385
    Sandia National Laboratories..........         2,500          2,500
    Los Alamos National Laboratory........       188,625        188,625
  Total, NNSA sites and Nevada off-sites..       254,876        254,876
 
  Oak Ridge Reservation:
    OR Nuclear facility D & D
      OR Nuclear facility D & D...........        75,958         75,958
      Construction:
        14-D-403 Outfall 200 Mercury               6,800          6,800
         Treatment Facility...............
    Total, OR Nuclear facility D & D......        82,758         82,758
 
    U233 Disposition Program..............        26,895         26,895
 
    OR cleanup and disposition:
      OR cleanup and disposition..........        60,500         60,500
    Total, OR cleanup and disposition.....        60,500         60,500
 
  OR reservation community and regulatory          4,400          4,400
   support................................
  Solid waste stabilization and
   disposition
         Oak Ridge technology development.         2,800          2,800
  Total, Oak Ridge Reservation............       177,353        177,353
 
  Office of River Protection:
    Waste treatment and immobilization
     plant
      01-D-416 A-D/ORP-0060 / Major              595,000        595,000
       construction.......................
      01-D-16E Pretreatment facility......        95,000         95,000
    Total, Waste treatment and                   690,000        690,000
     immobilization plant.................
 
    Tank farm activities
      Rad liquid tank waste stabilization        649,000        649,000
       and disposition....................
      Construction:
        15-D-409 Low Activity Waste               75,000         75,000
         Pretreatment System, Hanford.....
    Total, Tank farm activities...........       724,000        724,000
  Total, Office of River protection.......     1,414,000      1,414,000
 
  Savannah River sites:
    Savannah River risk management               386,652        389,652
     operations...........................
    SR community and regulatory support...        11,249         11,249
 
    Radioactive liquid tank waste:
      Radioactive liquid tank waste              581,878        581,878
       stabilization and disposition......
      Construction:
        15-D-402--Saltstone Disposal Unit         34,642         34,642
         #6...............................
        05-D-405 Salt waste processing           194,000        194,000
         facility, Savannah River.........
      Total, Construction.................       228,642        228,642
    Total, Radioactive liquid tank waste..       810,520        810,520
  Total, Savannah River site..............     1,208,421      1,211,421
 
  Waste Isolation Pilot Plant
    Waste isolation pilot plant...........       212,600        212,600
        Construction:
          15-D-411 Safety significant             23,218         23,218
           confinement ventilation system,
           WIPP...........................
          15-D-412 Exhaust shaft, WIPP....         7,500          7,500
        Total, Construction...............        30,718         30,718
      Total, Waste Isolation Pilot Plant..       243,318        243,318
 
  Program direction.......................       281,951        281,951
  Program support.........................        14,979         14,979
 
  Safeguards and Security:
    Oak Ridge Reservation.................        17,228         17,228
    Paducah...............................         8,216          8,216
    Portsmouth............................         8,492          8,492
    Richland/Hanford Site.................        67,601         67,601
    Savannah River Site...................       128,345        128,345
    Waste Isolation Pilot Project.........         4,860          4,860
    West Valley...........................         1,891          1,891
  Technology development..................        14,510         14,510
Subtotal, Defense environmental cleanup...     5,055,550      5,130,550
 
  Uranium enrichment D&D fund contribution       471,797              0
   (Legislative proposal).................
 
Total, Defense Environmental Cleanup......     5,527,347      5,130,550
 
 
Other Defense Activities
  Specialized security activities.........       221,855        217,952
 
  Environment, health, safety and security
    Environment, health, safety and              120,693        120,693
     security.............................
    Program direction.....................        63,105         63,105
  Total, Environment, Health, safety and         183,798        183,798
   security...............................
 
  Enterprise assessments
    Enterprise assessments................        24,068         24,068
    Program direction.....................        49,466         49,466
  Total, Enterprise assessments...........        73,534         73,534
 
  Office of Legacy Management
    Legacy management.....................       154,080        154,080
    Program direction.....................        13,100         13,100
  Total, Office of Legacy Management......       167,180        167,180
 
  Defense-related activities
  Defense related administrative support
    Chief financial officer...............        35,758         35,758
    Chief information officer.............        83,800         83,800
    Management............................         3,000          3,000
  Total, Defense related administrative          122,558        122,558
   support................................
 
  Office of hearings and appeals..........         5,500          5,500
Subtotal, Other defense activities........       774,425        770,522
Total, Other Defense Activities...........       774,425        770,522
------------------------------------------------------------------------



                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
