[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 875 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 875

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 21, 2016.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 3438) to amend title 5, United States Code, to postpone the effective 
date of high-impact rules pending judicial review. The first reading of the bill 
shall be dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill 
are waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed 
one hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on the Judiciary. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be in order to 
consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the five-minute 
rule the amendment in the nature of a substitute recommended by the Committee on 
the Judiciary now printed in the bill. The committee amendment in the nature of 
a substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against the 
committee amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to 
the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except 
those printed in the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this 
resolution. Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the 
report, may be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be 
considered as read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report 
equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be 
subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the 
question in the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order 
against such amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the 
bill for amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House 
with such amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate 
vote in the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the 
bill or to the committee amendment in the nature of a substitute. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments thereto to 
final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 5719) to amend the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to 
modify the tax treatment of certain equity grants. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature of a 
substitute recommended by the Committee on Ways and Means now printed in the 
bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered 
as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are 
waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as 
amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and Means; and 
(2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  It shall be in order at any time on the legislative day of 
September 22, 2016, or September 23, 2016, for the Speaker to entertain motions 
that the House suspend the rules as though under clause 1 of rule XV. The 
Speaker or his designee shall consult with the Minority Leader or her designee 
on the designation of any matter for consideration pursuant to this section.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
