[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5291 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 5291

  To amend title 49, United States Code, to provide enhanced consumer 
         protection for air passengers, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                              May 19, 2016

  Mr. Thompson of California introduced the following bill; which was 
     referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To amend title 49, United States Code, to provide enhanced consumer 
         protection for air passengers, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Airline Consumer 
Protection Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. References to title 49, United States Code.
Sec. 4. Causes of airline delays or cancellations.
Sec. 5. Involuntary changes to itineraries.
Sec. 6. Additional consumer protections.
Sec. 7. Addressing the needs of families of passengers involved in 
                            aircraft accidents.
Sec. 8. Emergency medical kits.
Sec. 9. Travelers with disabilities.
Sec. 10. Extension of Advisory Committee for Aviation Consumer 
                            Protection.
Sec. 11. Extension of competitive access reports.
Sec. 12. Refunds for delayed baggage.
Sec. 13. Refunds for other fees that are not honored by a covered air 
                            carrier.
Sec. 14. Disclosure of fees to consumers.
Sec. 15. Seat assignments.
Sec. 16. Child seating.
Sec. 17. Consumer complaint process improvement.
Sec. 18. Online access to aviation consumer protection information.
Sec. 19. Study on in cabin wheelchair restraint systems.
Sec. 20. Training policies regarding assistance for persons with 
                            disabilities.
Sec. 21. Advisory committee on the air travel needs of passengers with 
                            disabilities.
Sec. 22. Report on covered air carrier change and cancellation fees.
Sec. 23. Enforcement of aviation consumer protection rules.
Sec. 24. Regulations relating to space for passengers on aircraft.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on 
        Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the 
        Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (2) Covered air carrier.--The term ``covered air carrier'' 
        means an air carrier or a foreign air carrier as those terms 
        are defined in section 40102(a) of title 49, United States 
        Code.
            (3) Online service.--The term ``online service'' means any 
        service available over the Internet, or that connects to the 
        Internet or a wide-area network.
            (4) Ticket agent.--The term ``ticket agent'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 40102(a) of title 49, United 
        States Code.

SEC. 3. REFERENCES TO TITLE 49, UNITED STATES CODE.

    Except as otherwise expressly provided, wherever in this Act an 
amendment or repeal is expressed in terms of an amendment to, or repeal 
of, a section or other provision, the reference shall be considered to 
be made to a section or other provision of title 49, United States 
Code.

SEC. 4. CAUSES OF AIRLINE DELAYS OR CANCELLATIONS.

    (a) Review.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
        review the categorization of delays and cancellations with 
        respect to air carriers that are required to report such data.
            (2) Considerations.--In conducting the review under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider, at a minimum--
                    (A) whether delays and cancellations attributed by 
                an air carrier to weather were unavoidable due to an 
                operational or air traffic control issue, or due to the 
                air carrier's preference in determining which flights 
                to delay or cancel during a weather event;
                    (B) whether and to what extent delays and 
                cancellations attributed by an air carrier to weather 
                disproportionately impact service to smaller airports 
                and communities; and
                    (C) whether it is an unfair or deceptive practice 
                in violation of section 41712 of title 49, United 
                States Code, for an air carrier to inform a passenger 
                that a flight is delayed or cancelled due to weather, 
                without any other context or explanation for the delay 
                or cancellation, when the air carrier has discretion as 
                to which flights to delay or cancel.
            (3) Advisory committee for aviation consumer protection.--
        The Secretary may use the Advisory Committee for Aviation 
        Consumer Protection, established under section 411 of the FAA 
        Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (49 U.S.C. 42301 prec. 
        note), to assist in conducting the review and providing 
        recommendations.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date the review under 
subsection (a) is complete, the Secretary shall submit to the 
appropriate committees of Congress a report on the review under 
subsection (a), including any recommendations.
    (c) Savings Provision.--Nothing in this section shall be construed 
as affecting the decision of an air carrier to maximize its system 
capacity during weather-related events to accommodate the greatest 
number of passengers.

SEC. 5. INVOLUNTARY CHANGES TO ITINERARIES.

    (a) Review.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall 
        review whether it is an unfair or deceptive practice in 
        violation of section 41712 of title 49, United States Code, for 
        an air carrier to change the itinerary of a passenger, more 
        than 24 hours before departure, if the new itinerary involves 
        additional stops or departs 3 hours earlier or later and 
        compensation or other more suitable air transportation is not 
        offered.
            (2) Advisory committee for aviation consumer protection.--
        The Secretary may use the Advisory Committee for Aviation 
        Consumer Protection, established under section 411 of the FAA 
        Modernization and Reform Act of 2012 (49 U.S.C. 42301 prec. 
        note), to assist in conducting the review and providing 
        recommendations.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 90 days after the date the review under 
subsection (a) is complete, the Secretary shall submit to appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the review under subsection (a), 
including any recommendations.

SEC. 6. ADDITIONAL CONSUMER PROTECTIONS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date that the reviews under 
sections 4 and 5 of this Act are complete, the Secretary of 
Transportation shall issue a supplemental notice of proposed rulemaking 
to its notice of proposed rulemaking published in the Federal Register 
on May 23, 2014 (DOT-OST-2014-0056) (relating to the transparency of 
airline ancillary fees and other consumer protection issues) to 
consider the following:
            (1) Requiring an air carrier to provide notification and 
        refunds or other consideration to a consumer who is impacted by 
        delays or cancellations when an air carrier has a choice as to 
        which flights to cancel or delay during a weather-related 
        event.
            (2) Requiring an air carrier to provide notification and 
        refunds or other consideration to a consumer who is impacted by 
        involuntary changes to the consumer's itinerary.

SEC. 7. ADDRESSING THE NEEDS OF FAMILIES OF PASSENGERS INVOLVED IN 
              AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS.

    (a) Air Carriers Holding Certificates of Public Convenience and 
Necessity.--Section 41113 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``a major'' and 
        inserting ``any'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (9), by striking ``(and any other 
                victim of the accident)'' and inserting ``(and any 
                other victim of the accident, including any victim on 
                the ground)'';
                    (B) in paragraph (16), by striking ``major'' and 
                inserting ``any''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (17)(A), by striking 
                ``significant'' and inserting ``any''; and
            (3) by amending subsection (e) to read as follows:
    ``(e) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) `aircraft accident' means any aviation disaster, 
        regardless of its cause or suspected cause, for which the 
        National Transportation Safety Board is the lead investigative 
        agency; and
            ``(2) `passenger' has the meaning given the term in section 
        1136.''.
    (b) Foreign Air Carriers Providing Foreign Air Transportation.--
Section 41313 is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``a major'' and 
        inserting ``any''; and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``a significant'' 
                and inserting ``any'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by striking ``a significant'' 
                and inserting ``any'';
                    (C) in paragraph (16), by striking ``major'' and 
                inserting ``any''; and
                    (D) in paragraph (17)(A), by striking 
                ``significant'' and inserting ``any''.
    (c) National Transportation Safety Board.--Section 1136(a) is 
amended by striking ``aircraft accident within the United States 
involving an air carrier or foreign air carrier and resulting in a 
major loss of life'' and inserting ``aircraft accident involving an air 
carrier or foreign air carrier, resulting in any loss of life, and for 
which the National Transportation Safety Board will serve as the lead 
investigative agency''.

SEC. 8. EMERGENCY MEDICAL KITS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Aviation 
Administration shall evaluate and revise, as appropriate, the 
regulations under part 121 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, 
regarding the emergency medical equipment requirements, including the 
contents of the first-aid kit, applicable to all certificate holders 
operating passenger-carrying airplanes under that part.
    (b) Considerations.--The Administrator shall consider whether the 
minimum contents of approved emergency medical kits, including approved 
first-aid kits, include appropriate medications and equipment to meet 
the emergency medical needs of children, including consideration of an 
epinephrine auto-injector, as appropriate.

SEC. 9. TRAVELERS WITH DISABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall--
            (1) conduct a study of airport accessibility best practices 
        for individuals with disabilities, limited mobility, or visual 
        or hearing impairments; and
            (2) submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a 
        report on the study, including the Comptroller General's 
        findings, conclusions, and recommendations.
    (b) Contents.--The study under subsection (a) shall include 
accessibility best practices beyond those recommended under the 
Architectural Barriers Act of 1968 (42 U.S.C. 4151 et seq.), 
Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (29 U.S.C. 701 et seq.), Air Carrier Access 
Act of 1986 (100 Stat. 1080; Public Law 99-435), or Americans with 
Disabilities Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12101 et seq.), that improve 
infrastructure and communications, such as with regard to wayfinding, 
amenities, and passenger care.

SEC. 10. EXTENSION OF ADVISORY COMMITTEE FOR AVIATION CONSUMER 
              PROTECTION.

    (a) Termination.--Section 411(h) of the FAA Modernization and 
Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 42301 prec. note) is 
amended by striking ``March 30, 2016'' and inserting ``September 30, 
2017''.
    (b) Financial Disclosure.--Section 411 of the FAA Modernization and 
Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 42301 prec. note) is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
            (2) by inserting before subsection (i), the following:
    ``(h) Conflict of Interest Disclosure.--Beginning on the date of 
enactment of the Airline Consumer Protection Act of 2016, each member 
of the advisory committee who is not a government employee shall 
disclose, on an annual basis, any potential conflicts of interest, 
including financial conflicts of interest, to the Secretary in such 
form and manner as prescribed by the Secretary.''.
    (c) Recommendations.--Section 411(g) of the FAA Modernization and 
Reform Act of 2012 (Public Law 112-95; 49 U.S.C. 42301 prec. note) is 
amended--
            (1) by striking ``of the first 2 calendar years beginning 
        after the date of enactment of this Act'' and inserting 
        ``calendar year''; and
            (2) by inserting ``and post on the Department of 
        Transportation Web site'' after ``Congress''.

SEC. 11. EXTENSION OF COMPETITIVE ACCESS REPORTS.

    Section 47107(r)(3) is amended by striking ``April 1, 2016'' and 
inserting ``October 1, 2017''.

SEC. 12. REFUNDS FOR DELAYED BAGGAGE.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue final 
regulations to require a covered air carrier to promptly provide an 
automatic refund to a passenger in the amount of any applicable 
ancillary fees paid if the covered air carrier has charged the 
passenger an ancillary fee for checked baggage but the covered air 
carrier fails to deliver the checked baggage to the passenger not later 
than 6 hours after the arrival of a domestic flight or 12 hours after 
the arrival of an international flight.
    (b) Exception.--If as part of the rulemaking the Secretary makes a 
determination on the record that a requirement under subsection (a) is 
unfeasible and will negatively affect consumers in certain cases, the 
Secretary may modify 1 or both of the deadlines in that subsection for 
such cases, except that--
            (1) the deadline relating to a domestic flight may not 
        exceed 12 hours after the arrival of the domestic flight; and
            (2) the deadline relating to an international flight may 
        not exceed 24 hours after the arrival of the domestic flight.

SEC. 13. REFUNDS FOR OTHER FEES THAT ARE NOT HONORED BY A COVERED AIR 
              CARRIER.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall promulgate 
regulations that require each covered air carrier to promptly provide 
an automatic refund to a passenger of any ancillary fees paid for 
services that the passenger does not receive, including on the 
passenger's scheduled flight or, if rescheduled, a subsequent 
replacement itinerary.
    (b) Cancelled Flights.--As part of the rule under subsection (a), 
the Secretary shall require each covered air carrier to promptly 
provide an automatic refund to a passenger of any ancillary fees paid 
for services that the passenger does not receive for a flight cancelled 
by the passenger.

SEC. 14. DISCLOSURE OF FEES TO CONSUMERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue final 
regulations requiring--
            (1) each covered air carrier to disclose to a consumer the 
        baggage fee, cancellation fee, change fee, ticketing fee, and 
        seat selection fee of that covered air carrier in a 
        standardized format; and
            (2) notwithstanding the manner in which information 
        regarding the fees described in paragraph (1) is collected, 
        each ticket agent to disclose to a consumer such fees of a 
        covered air carrier in the standardized format described in 
        paragraph (1).
    (b) Requirements.--The regulations under subsection (a) shall 
require that each disclosure--
            (1) if ticketing is done on an Internet Web site or other 
        online service--
                    (A) be prominently displayed to the consumer prior 
                to the point of purchase; and
                    (B) set forth the fees described in subsection 
                (a)(1) in clear and plain language and a font of easily 
                readable size; and
            (2) if ticketing is done on the telephone, be expressly 
        stated to the consumer during the telephone call and prior to 
        the point of purchase.

SEC. 15. SEAT ASSIGNMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall complete 
such actions as may be necessary to require each covered air carrier 
and ticket agent to disclose to a consumer that seat selection for 
which a fee is charged is an optional service, and that if a consumer 
does not pay for a seat assignment, a seat will be assigned to the 
consumer from available inventory at the time the consumer checks in 
for the flight or prior to departure.
    (b) Requirements.--The disclosure under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) if ticketing is done on an Internet Web site or other 
        online service, be prominently displayed to the consumer on 
        that Internet Web site or online service during the selection 
        of seating or prior to the point of purchase; and
            (2) if ticketing is done on the telephone, be expressly 
        stated to the consumer during the telephone call and prior to 
        the point of purchase.

SEC. 16. CHILD SEATING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 15 months after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall complete 
such actions as may be necessary to require each covered air carrier 
and ticket agent to disclose to a consumer that if a reservation 
includes a child under the age of 13 traveling with an accompanying 
passenger who is age 13 or older--
            (1) whether adjoining seats are available at no additional 
        cost at the time of purchase; and
            (2) if not, what the covered air carrier's policy is for 
        accommodating adjoining seat requests at the time the consumer 
        checks in for the flight or prior to departure.
    (b) Requirements.--The disclosure under subsection (a) shall--
            (1) if ticketing is done on an Internet Web site or other 
        online service, be prominently displayed to the consumer on 
        that Internet Web site or online service during the selection 
        of seating or prior to the point of purchase; and
            (2) if ticketing is done on the telephone, be expressly 
        stated to the consumer during the telephone call and prior to 
        the point of purchase.

SEC. 17. CONSUMER COMPLAINT PROCESS IMPROVEMENT.

    (a) In General.--Section 42302 is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) as subsections 
        (c) and (d), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after subsection (a), the following:
    ``(b) Point of Sale.--Each air carrier, foreign air carrier, and 
ticket agent shall inform each consumer of a carrier service, at the 
point of sale, that the consumer can file a complaint about that 
service with the carrier and with the Aviation Consumer Protection 
Division of the Department of Transportation.'';
            (3) by amending subsection (c), as redesignated, to read as 
        follows:
    ``(c) Internet Web Site or Other Online Service Notice.--Each air 
carrier and foreign air carrier shall include on its Internet Web site, 
any related mobile device application, and online service--
            ``(1) the hotline telephone number established under 
        subsection (a) or for the Aviation Consumer Protection Division 
        of the Department of Transportation;
            ``(2) an active link and the email address, telephone 
        number, and mailing address of the air carrier or foreign air 
        carrier, as applicable, for a consumer to submit a complaint to 
        the carrier about the quality of service;
            ``(3) notice that the consumer can file a complaint with 
        the Aviation Consumer Protection Division of the Department of 
        Transportation;
            ``(4) an active link to the Internet Web site of the 
        Aviation Consumer Protection Division of the Department of 
        Transportation for a consumer to file a complaint; and
            ``(5) the active link described in paragraph (2) on the 
        same Internet Web site page as the active link described in 
        paragraph (4).''; and
            (4) in subsection (d), as redesignated--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``An air carrier or foreign air carrier 
                providing scheduled air transportation using any 
                aircraft that as originally designed has a passenger 
                capacity of 30 or more passenger seats'' and inserting 
                ``Each air carrier and foreign air carrier'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1), by striking ``air carrier'' 
                and inserting ``carrier''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by striking ``air carrier'' 
                and inserting ``carrier''.
    (b) Rulemaking.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall promulgate 
regulations to implement the requirements of section 42302 of title 49, 
United States Code, as amended.

SEC. 18. ONLINE ACCESS TO AVIATION CONSUMER PROTECTION INFORMATION.

    (a) Internet Web Site.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) complete an evaluation of the aviation consumer 
        protection portion of the Department of Transportation's public 
        Internet Web site to identify any changes to the user interface 
        that will improve usability, accessibility, consumer 
        satisfaction, and Web site performance;
            (2) in completing the evaluation under paragraph (1)--
                    (A) consider the best practices of other Federal 
                agencies with effective Web sites; and
                    (B) consult with the Federal Web Managers Council;
            (3) develop a plan, including an implementation timeline, 
        for--
                    (A) making the changes identified under paragraph 
                (1); and
                    (B) making any necessary changes to that portion of 
                the Web site that will enable a consumer--
                            (i) to access information regarding each 
                        complaint filed with the Aviation Consumer 
                        Protection Division of the Department of 
                        Transportation;
                            (ii) to search the complaints described in 
                        clause (i) by the name of the air carrier and 
                        the type of complaint; and
                            (iii) to determine the date a complaint was 
                        filed and the date a complaint was resolved; 
                        and
            (4) submit the evaluation and plan to the appropriate 
        committees of Congress.
    (b) Mobile Application Software.--Not later than 1 year after the 
date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall--
            (1) implement a program to develop application software for 
        wireless devices that will enable a user to access information 
        and perform activities related to aviation consumer protection, 
        such as--
                    (A) information regarding airline passenger 
                protections, including protections related to lost 
                baggage and baggage fees, disclosure of additional 
                fees, bumping, and tarmac delays; and
                    (B) file an aviation consumer complaint, including 
                a safety and security, airline service, disability and 
                discrimination, or privacy complaint, with the Aviation 
                Consumer Protection Division of the Department of 
                Transportation; and
            (2) make the application software available to the public 
        at no cost.

SEC. 19. STUDY ON IN CABIN WHEELCHAIR RESTRAINT SYSTEMS.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Architectural and Transportation Barriers Compliance Board, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Transportation, shall conduct a 
study to determine the ways in which particular individuals with 
significant disabilities who use wheelchairs, including power 
wheelchairs, can be accommodated through in cabin wheelchair restraint 
systems.

SEC. 20. TRAINING POLICIES REGARDING ASSISTANCE FOR PERSONS WITH 
              DISABILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 270 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States 
shall submit to Congress a report describing--
            (1) each air carrier's training policy for its personnel 
        and contractors regarding assistance for persons with 
        disabilities, as required by Department of Transportation 
        regulations;
            (2) any variations among the air carriers in the policies 
        described in paragraph (1);
            (3) how the training policies are implemented to meet the 
        Department of Transportation regulations;
            (4) how frequently an air carrier must train new employees 
        and contractors due to turnover in positions that require such 
        training;
            (5) how frequently, in the prior 10 years, the Department 
        of Transportation has requested, after reviewing a training 
        policy, that an air carrier take corrective action; and
            (6) the action taken by an air carrier under paragraph (5).
    (b) Best Practices.--After the date the report is submitted under 
subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation, based on the findings 
of the report, shall develop and disseminate to air carriers such best 
practices as the Secretary considers necessary to improve the training 
policies.

SEC. 21. ADVISORY COMMITTEE ON THE AIR TRAVEL NEEDS OF PASSENGERS WITH 
              DISABILITIES.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Transportation shall establish 
an advisory committee for the air travel needs of passengers with 
disabilities (referred to in this section as the ``Advisory 
Committee'').
    (b) Duties.--The Advisory Committee shall advise the Secretary with 
regard to the implementation of the Air Carrier Access Act of 1986 
(Public Law 99-435; 100 Stat. 1080), including--
            (1) assessing the disability-related access barriers 
        encountered by passengers with disabilities;
            (2) determining the extent to which the programs and 
        activities of the Department of Transportation are addressing 
        the barriers described in paragraph (1);
            (3) recommending improvements to the air travel experience 
        of passengers with disabilities; and
            (4) such activities as the Secretary considers necessary to 
        carry out this section.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Advisory Committee shall be comprised 
        of at least 1 representative of each of the following groups:
                    (A) Passengers with disabilities.
                    (B) National disability organizations.
                    (C) Air carriers.
                    (D) Airport operators.
                    (E) Contractor service providers.
            (2) Appointment.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
        appoint each member of the Advisory Committee.
            (3) Vacancies.--A vacancy in the Advisory Committee shall 
        be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was 
        made.
    (d) Chairperson.--The Secretary of Transportation shall designate, 
from among the members appointed under subsection (c), an individual to 
serve as chairperson of the Advisory Committee.
    (e) Travel Expenses.--Members of the advisory committee shall serve 
without pay, but shall receive travel expenses, including per diem in 
lieu of subsistence, in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of 
title 5, United States Code.
    (f) Reports.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than February 1 of each year, 
        the Advisory Committee shall submit to the Secretary of 
        Transportation a report on the needs of passengers with 
        disabilities in air travel, including--
                    (A) an assessment of disability-related access 
                barriers, both those that were evident in the preceding 
                year and those that will likely be an issue in the next 
                5 years;
                    (B) an evaluation of the extent to which the 
                Department of Transportation's programs and activities 
                are eliminating disability-related access barriers;
                    (C) a description of the Advisory Committee's 
                actions during the prior calendar year;
                    (D) a description of activities that the Advisory 
                Committee proposed to undertake in the succeeding 
                calendar year; and
                    (E) any recommendations for legislation, 
                administrative action, or other action that the 
                Advisory Committee considers appropriate.
            (2) Report to congress.--Not later than 60 days after the 
        date the Secretary receives the report under subparagraph (A), 
        the Secretary shall submit to Congress a copy of the report, 
        including any additional findings or recommendations that the 
        Secretary considers appropriate.
    (g) Termination.--The Advisory Committee shall terminate 2 years 
after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 22. REPORT ON COVERED AIR CARRIER CHANGE AND CANCELLATION FEES.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study of existing airline industry change and cancellation 
fees and the current industry practice for handling changes to or 
cancellation of ticketed travel on covered air carriers.
    (b) Considerations.--In conducting the study, the Comptroller 
General shall consider, at a minimum--
            (1) whether and how each covered air carrier calculates its 
        change fees and cancellation fees; and
            (2) the relationship between the cost of the ticket and the 
        date of change or cancellation as compared to the date of 
        travel.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the study, including the Comptroller 
General's findings, conclusions, and recommendations.

SEC. 23. ENFORCEMENT OF AVIATION CONSUMER PROTECTION RULES.

    (a) In General.--The Comptroller General of the United States shall 
conduct a study to consider and evaluate Department of Transportation 
enforcement of aviation consumer protection rules.
    (b) Contents.--The study under subsection (a) shall include an 
evaluation of--
            (1) available enforcement mechanisms;
            (2) any obstacles to enforcement; and
            (3) trends in Department of Transportation enforcement 
        actions.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the appropriate 
committees of Congress a report on the study, including the Comptroller 
General's findings, conclusions, and recommendations.

SEC. 24. REGULATIONS RELATING TO SPACE FOR PASSENGERS ON AIRCRAFT.

    (a) Moratorium on Reductions to Aircraft Seat Size.--Not later than 
30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
of the Federal Aviation Administration shall prohibit any air carrier 
from reducing the size, width, padding, or pitch of seats on passenger 
aircraft operated by the air carrier, the amount of leg room per seat 
on such aircraft, or the width of aisles on such aircraft.
    (b) Regulations Relating to Space for Passengers on Aircraft.--Not 
later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall prescribe regulations--
            (1) establishing minimum standards for space for passengers 
        on passenger aircraft, including the size, width, padding, and 
        pitch of seats, the amount of leg room per seat, and the width 
        of aisles on such aircraft for the safety, health, and comfort 
        of passengers; and
            (2) requiring each air carrier to prominently display on 
        the Web site of the air carrier the amount of space available 
        for each passenger on passenger aircraft operated by the air 
        carrier, including the size, width, padding, and pitch of 
        seats, the amount of leg room per seat, and the width of aisles 
        on such aircraft.
    (c) Consultations.--In prescribing the regulations required by 
subsection (b), the Administrator shall consult with the Occupational 
Safety and Health Administration, the Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention, passenger advocacy organizations, physicians, and ergonomic 
engineers.
    (d) End of Moratorium.--Subsection (a) shall cease to be effective 
on the effective date of the regulations prescribed under subsection 
(b).
    (e) Air Carrier Defined.--In this section, the term ``air carrier'' 
means an air carrier (as defined in section 40102 of title 49, United 
States Code) that transports passengers by aircraft as a common carrier 
for compensation.
                                 <all>
