[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4056 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.4056

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
  To direct the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to convey to the Florida 
  Department of Veterans Affairs all right, title, and interest of the 
 United States to the property known as ``The Community Living Center'' 
    at the Lake Baldwin Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic, Orlando, 
                                Florida.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS AFFAIRS LAND CONVEYANCE, LAKE BALDWIN 
VETERANS AFFAIRS OUTPATIENT CLINIC, ORLANDO, FLORIDA.
    (a) Conveyance Authorized.--The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall 
convey to the Florida Department of Veterans Affairs all right, title, 
and interest of the United States in and to the property known as ``The 
Community Living Center'', including any improvements thereon, which is 
part of the Lake Baldwin Veterans Affairs Outpatient Clinic, Orlando, 
Florida, located at 5201 Raymond Street, Orlando, Florida.
    (b) Conditions of Conveyance.--The conveyance under subsection (a) 
shall be subject to the following conditions:
        (1) The recipient shall agree to accept the conveyed real 
    property in its condition at the time of the conveyance.
        (2) The recipient shall agree not to apply the small house 
    design model of the Department of Veterans Affairs Office of 
    Construction and Facilities Management Design Guide for Community 
    Living Centers to the conveyed real property.
    (c) Use of Property.--The deed of conveyance for the parcels of 
real property conveyed under subsection (a) shall provide that all of 
the property be used and maintained for the sole purpose of providing 
nursing home, domiciliary, or adult day health care to veterans.
    (d) Description of Property.--The exact acreage and legal 
description of the parcels of real property conveyed under subsection 
(a) shall be determined by surveys satisfactory to the Secretary.
    (e) Additional Terms and Conditions.--The Secretary may require 
such additional terms and conditions in connection with the conveyances 
under subsection (a) as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect 
the interests of the United States.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
