[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 744 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 744

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                          May 25, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the bill (S. 2012) to provide for the modernization of the 
energy policy of the United States, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a 
substitute consisting of the text of Rules Committee Print 114-55 shall be 
considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All 
points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on 
any further amendment thereto, to final passage without intervening motion 
except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided among and controlled by the chair 
and ranking minority member of the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Natural Resources; and (2) 
one motion to commit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  If S. 2012, as amended, is passed, then it shall be in order for 
the chair of the Committee on Energy and Commerce or his designee to move that 
the House insist on its amendment to S. 2012 and request a conference with the 
Senate thereon.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 5233) to repeal the Local Budget Autonomy Amendment 
Act of 2012, to amend the District of Columbia Home Rule Act to clarify the 
respective roles of the District government and Congress in the local budget 
process of the District government, and for other purposes. All points of order 
against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as 
read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are waived. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and on any 
amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one 
hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority 
member of the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform; and (2) one motion 
to recommit.
    Sec. 4.  On any legislative day during the period from May 27, 2016, through 
June 6, 2016--
     (a) the Journal of the proceedings of the previous day shall be considered 
as approved; and
    (b) the Chair may at any time declare the House adjourned to meet at a date 
and time, within the limits of clause 4, section 5, article I of the 
Constitution, to be announced by the Chair in declaring the adjournment.
    Sec. 5.  The Speaker may appoint Members to perform the duties of the Chair 
for the duration of the period addressed by section 4 of this resolution as 
though under clause 8(a) of rule I.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
