[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2706 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 2706

To promote innovative approaches to outdoor recreation on Federal land 
    and to open up opportunities for collaboration with non-Federal 
                   partners, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 17, 2016

   Mr. Wyden introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
       referred to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To promote innovative approaches to outdoor recreation on Federal land 
    and to open up opportunities for collaboration with non-Federal 
                   partners, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Recreation Not 
Red-Tape Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents of this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Definitions.
Sec. 3. Sense of Congress regarding outdoor recreation.
               TITLE I--MODERNIZING RECREATION PERMITTING

Sec. 101. Special recreation permitting.
Sec. 102. Coordination of Federal and State recreation pass sales.
Sec. 103. Online purchases of National Parks and Federal Recreational 
                            Lands Pass.
                    TITLE II--ACCESSING THE OUTDOORS

Sec. 201. Access for servicemembers and veterans.
Sec. 202. Access for kids.
Sec. 203. Access for seniors.
                TITLE III--MAKING RECREATION A PRIORITY

Sec. 301. Labor statistics study.
Sec. 302. Extension of seasonal recreation opportunities.
Sec. 303. Recreation performance metrics.
Sec. 304. Recreation mission.
Sec. 305. Deposit of ski area permit rental fees in Federal Lands 
                            Recreation Enhancement Act account.
Sec. 306. National Recreation Area System.
                  TITLE IV--MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC LAND

                         Subtitle A--Volunteers

Sec. 401. Private-sector volunteer enhancement program.
Sec. 402. Forest Service volunteer liability.
                 Subtitle B--Priority Trail Maintenance

Sec. 411. Definition of Secretaries.
Sec. 412. Priority trail maintenance program.
Sec. 413. Priority Trail Maintenance Program Fund.
Sec. 414. Interagency trail management.
         Subtitle C--Public Lands Service Corps Act Amendments

Sec. 421. Amendment to short title.
Sec. 422. Reference.
Sec. 423. Amendments to Public Lands Service Corps Act of 1993.
Sec. 424. Direct hire authority.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Federal land management agency.--The term ``Federal 
        land management agency'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 
        U.S.C. 6801).
            (2) Federal recreational land and water.--The term 
        ``Federal recreational land and water'' has the meaning given 
        the term ``Federal recreational lands and waters'' in section 
        802 of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 
        6801).
            (3) Secretaries.--Except as otherwise provided in this Act, 
        the term ``Secretaries'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior; and
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS REGARDING OUTDOOR RECREATION.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) outdoor recreation and the $646,000,000,000 outdoor 
        industry that outdoor recreation supports are vital to the 
        United States;
            (2) access to outdoor recreation on land and waters of the 
        United States is important to the health and wellness of all 
        people of the United States, especially young people;
            (3) $524,800,000,000 of the amount described in paragraph 
        (1) contributes to the travel and tourism industry of the 
        United States, which generates over $2,000,000,000,000 in 
        annual spending;
            (4) outdoor recreation, hunting, and fishing are 
        appropriate uses of public land;
            (5) access to healthy public land and water is critical to 
        supporting the uses described in paragraph (4);
            (6) the States are uniquely positioned to improve 
        conditions for sustainable outdoor recreation opportunities, 
        funding, and access;
            (7) Congress supports the creation of outdoor recreation 
        sector leadership positions within the economic development 
        offices of States or in the office of the Governor, as well as 
        coordination with recreation and tourism organizations within 
        the State to guide the growth of this sector, as evidenced by 
        recent examples in the States of Colorado, Utah, and 
        Washington;
            (8) State and local recreation and tourism offices play a 
        pivotal role in--
                    (A) coordinating State outdoor recreation policies, 
                management, and promotion among Federal, State, and 
                local agencies and entities;
                    (B) disseminating information, increasing 
                awareness, and growing demand for outdoor recreation 
                experiences among visitors across the United States and 
                throughout the world;
                    (C) improving funding for, access to, and 
                participation in outdoor recreation; and
                    (D) promoting economic development in the State by 
                coordinating with stakeholders, improving recreational 
                opportunities, and recruiting outdoor recreation 
                businesses;
            (9) Congress supports the coordination and collaboration of 
        the Federal and State land and water management agencies in the 
        delivery of visitor services and management of outdoor 
        recreation for the United States; and
            (10) Congress recognizes--
                    (A) the growing role that recreation has on Federal 
                public land;
                    (B) the need to provide adequate staffing within 
                Federal land management agencies to facilitate 
                sustainable and accessible outdoor recreation 
                opportunities; and
                    (C) the important role that volunteers and 
                volunteer partnerships play in maintaining public land.

               TITLE I--MODERNIZING RECREATION PERMITTING

SEC. 101. SPECIAL RECREATION PERMITTING.

    Section 803(h) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 
U.S.C. 6802(h)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Outfitters and guides.--
                    ``(A) Definitions.--In this paragraph:
                            ``(i) Associated agency.--The term 
                        `associated agency' means any agency that 
                        manages land on which a trip that is the 
                        subject of a special recreation permit would be 
                        conducted after departing the land managed by 
                        the lead agency.
                            ``(ii) Lead agency.--The term `lead agency' 
                        means the agency that manages the land from 
                        which a trip that is the subject of the special 
                        recreation permit originates.
                    ``(B) Outfitter and guide permits.--
                            ``(i) In general.--In issuing special 
                        recreation permits or charging special 
                        recreation permit fees in connection with the 
                        issuance of permits under paragraph (1) with 
                        respect to outfitters and guides, within a 
                        reasonable time after the date of enactment of 
                        the Recreation Not Red-Tape Act, the Director 
                        of the Bureau of Land Management and the Chief 
                        of the Forest Service shall adopt a consistent 
                        and uniform permitting process in accordance 
                        with clause (ii) across agencies and district 
                        boundaries, in consultation with the public, 
                        including stakeholder groups that represent the 
                        interests of organizations that facilitate 
                        outdoor access.
                            ``(ii) Permitting process.--The permitting 
                        process described in clause (i) shall include--
                                    ``(I) standard paperwork that is 
                                concise and understandable to the 
                                general public;
                                    ``(II) a standard submission 
                                process;
                                    ``(III) consistent deadlines; and
                                    ``(IV) outreach materials to help 
                                outfitters and guides navigate the 
                                permitting process.
                    ``(C) Permit for cross-jurisdictional trips.--In 
                the case of a trip that will cross jurisdictional 
                boundaries--
                            ``(i) only 1 permit application shall be 
                        required;
                            ``(ii) the permit application required 
                        under clause (i) shall be--
                                    ``(I) the application required by 
                                the lead agency; and
                                    ``(II) submitted to the lead 
                                agency;
                            ``(iii) the Secretaries shall coordinate, 
                        consistent with the authority of the 
                        Secretaries under section 330 of the Department 
                        of the Interior and Related Agencies 
                        Appropriations Act, 2001 (43 U.S.C. 1703), to 
                        develop, in consultation with the public 
                        (including stakeholder groups that represent 
                        the interests of organizations that facilitate 
                        outdoor access), a process for issuing 1 joint 
                        permit that covers the entirety of the trip; 
                        and
                            ``(iv) the Secretaries shall consider the 
                        findings, requirements, interests, and needs of 
                        the lead agency and any associated agencies 
                        when developing the permit process developed 
                        under clause (iii).
                    ``(D) Reasonable timeframe.--The Secretaries shall 
                complete the permitting process under subparagraph (B) 
                within a reasonable timeframe.
                    ``(E) Online availability.--To the maximum extent 
                practicable, where feasible and efficient, the 
                Secretaries shall make available--
                            ``(i) all special recreation permit 
                        applications, to be filled out and submitted 
                        online; and
                            ``(ii) online information regarding--
                                    ``(I) the application process; and
                                    ``(II) the means by which an 
                                applicant can contact the Secretaries 
                                for guidance on the permit process 
                                before submitting a permit 
                                application.''.

SEC. 102. COORDINATION OF FEDERAL AND STATE RECREATION PASS SALES.

    (a) In General.--The Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act is 
amended by inserting after section 805 (16 U.S.C. 6804) the following:

``SEC. 805A. COORDINATION OF FEDERAL AND STATE RECREATION PASS SALES.

    ``(a) Establishment of Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretaries are encouraged to work 
        with States to coordinate the sale of Federal and State 
        recreation passes in a way that allows a purchaser to buy both 
        a Federal pass and a State pass in the same location and in the 
        same transaction.
            ``(2) Included passes.--Passes covered by the program 
        established under paragraph (1) include--
                    ``(A) a National Parks and Federal Recreational 
                Lands Pass under section 805; and
                    ``(B) a pass that shall cover any fees charged by 
                participating States and localities for entrance and 
                recreational use of parks and public land in the 
                participating States.
    ``(b) Agreements With States.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretaries, after consultation with 
        the States, may enter into agreements with States to coordinate 
        the sale of passes as described in subsection (a)(1).
            ``(2) Notice.--In entering into an agreement under 
        paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall publish in the Federal 
        Register a notice describing the agreement.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 805(a)(9) of the Federal Lands 
Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6804(a)(9)) is amended by 
inserting ``and section 805A'' before the period at the end.

SEC. 103. ONLINE PURCHASES OF NATIONAL PARKS AND FEDERAL RECREATIONAL 
              LANDS PASS.

    (a) In General.--Section 805(a)(6) of the Federal Lands Recreation 
Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6804(a)(6)) is amended by striking 
subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretaries shall sell the 
                National Parks and Federal Recreational Lands Pass--
                            ``(i) at all Federal recreational lands and 
                        waters at which an entrance fee or a standard 
                        amenity recreation fee is charged;
                            ``(ii) at such other locations as the 
                        Secretaries consider appropriate and feasible; 
                        and
                            ``(iii) through the website of each of the 
                        Federal land management agencies and the 
                        websites of the relevant units and subunits of 
                        those agencies, with--
                                    ``(I) a prominent link on each 
                                website; and
                                    ``(II) information about where and 
                                when passes are needed.''.
    (b) Entrance Pass and Amenity Fees.--The Secretaries shall make 
available for purchase or payment online, if appropriate and feasible, 
for each unit where passes and fees are required--
            (1) all entrance fees under section 803(e) of the Federal 
        Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(e));
            (2) all standard amenity recreation fees under section 
        803(f) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(f)); and
            (3) all expanded amenity recreation fees under section 
        803(g) of that Act (16 U.S.C. 6802(g)).

                    TITLE II--ACCESSING THE OUTDOORS

SEC. 201. ACCESS FOR SERVICEMEMBERS AND VETERANS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries are encouraged to work with the 
Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs on ways to 
ensure veterans have access to the outdoors and to outdoor programs as 
a part of the basic services provided to veterans.
    (b) Inclusion of Information.--Each branch of the Armed Forces is 
encouraged to include information about outdoor recreation in the 
materials and counseling services provided in the Transition Assistance 
Program, including--
            (1) the benefits of outdoor recreation for physical and 
        mental health;
            (2) maps of parks, trails, and other recreation sites 
        within 200 miles of military bases;
            (3) resources to access guided outdoor trips; and
            (4) information regarding the Public Land Corps of the 
        National Park Service.
    (c) Outdoor Recreation Program Attendance.--Each branch of the 
Armed Forces is encouraged to permit members of the Armed Forces on 
active duty status, at the discretion of the commander of the member, 
to use not more than 7 days of a Permissive Temporary Duty Assignment 
allotted to the member to attend an outdoor recreation program 
following deployment.

SEC. 202. ACCESS FOR KIDS.

    (a) America the Beautiful Passes.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretaries shall make available free 
        of charge a certain quantity of America the Beautiful passes, 
        to be determined by the Secretaries, to schools receiving funds 
        under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary 
        Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6311 et seq.) in each State 
        for use by the school or by students enrolled in the school and 
        their families.
            (2) Duration.--A pass shall be valid for a period of 1 
        year.
            (3) Renewal.--On request of a school described in paragraph 
        (1), the Secretaries may renew each pass provided under 
        paragraph (1) upon expiration.
    (b) Educational Materials.--Each pass made available under 
subsection (a) shall be accompanied with--
            (1) educational materials on how to access and use the land 
        covered by the pass; and
            (2) information on available programming and guided 
        activities.
    (c) Curricula for Schools.--The Federal land management agencies 
shall coordinate to provide materials or curricula for all elementary 
schools and secondary schools--
            (1) to provide to students education on--
                    (A) nearby land covered by the pass; and
                    (B) activities available on that land;
            (2) to encourage field trips to that land; and
            (3) to encourage involvement in the Every Kid in a Park 
        Program of the National Park Service.

SEC. 203. ACCESS FOR SENIORS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries are encouraged to increase 
programs focused on improving education about, and access to, outdoor 
recreation opportunities on public land for individuals that are age 55 
or older.
    (b) Volunteerism.--The Corporation for National and Community 
Service and the Federal Interagency Team on Volunteerism are encouraged 
to work together to increase engagement of individuals that are age 55 
or older in volunteer opportunities, particularly volunteer 
opportunities on public land, through the websites of the 
organizations.

                TITLE III--MAKING RECREATION A PRIORITY

SEC. 301. LABOR STATISTICS STUDY.

    The Secretaries, in consultation with the head of each Federal 
agency with jurisdiction over Federal land, shall conduct a study on, 
and quantify, the overall impact that recreation on Federal 
recreational land and water has on the economy and labor market of the 
United States.

SEC. 302. EXTENSION OF SEASONAL RECREATION OPPORTUNITIES.

    (a) In General.--The relevant unit managers of land managed by the 
Forest Service, the Bureau of Land Management, and the National Park 
Service, through the respective land management planning processes of 
those agencies, may--
            (1) identify areas of Federal recreational land and water 
        in which recreation use is highly seasonal;
            (2) develop a management plan for extending the recreation 
        season or increasing recreation use in a sustainable manner 
        during the offseason; and
            (3) make information about extended season schedules and 
        related recreational opportunities available to the public and 
        local communities.
    (b) Inclusions.--The management plan developed under subsection 
(a)(2) may include--
            (1) the addition of facilities that would increase 
        recreation use during the offseason; and
            (2) improvement of access to the area to extend the season.
    (c) Requirement.--The management plan developed under subsection 
(a)(2) shall be compatible with all applicable Federal laws, 
regulations, and policies, including land use plans.

SEC. 303. RECREATION PERFORMANCE METRICS.

    (a) In General.--The Chief of the Forest Service and the Director 
of the Bureau of Land Management shall include in any evaluation of the 
land under the jurisdiction of the Chief and the Director and in the 
performance evaluation of the land managers, the use of the land for 
recreation and achievement of stated recreation and tourism goals in 
the land management plans.
    (b) Metrics.--
            (1) In general.--The metrics used to evaluate recreation 
        and tourism outcomes shall ensure--
                    (A) the advancement of recreation and tourism 
                goals; and
                    (B) the ability of the land manager to enhance the 
                outdoor experience of the visitor.
            (2) Inclusions.--The metrics referred to paragraph (1) may 
        include, to the maximum extent practicable--
                    (A) the number of first-time visitors;
                    (B) the number of repeat visitors;
                    (C) the number of school and youth groups that 
                visited;
                    (D) the number of recreational and environmental 
                educational programs offered and the success of those 
                programs;
                    (E) visitor satisfaction; and
                    (F) the maintenance of existing recreation 
                infrastructure.

SEC. 304. RECREATION MISSION.

    (a) Definition of Federal Agency.--In this section, the term 
``Federal agency'' means each of--
            (1) the Corps of Engineers;
            (2) the Bureau of Reclamation; and
            (3) the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission.
    (b) Mission.--With respect to the mission of the Federal agency, 
each Federal agency shall consider how land and water management 
decisions can enhance recreation opportunities and the recreation 
economy.

SEC. 305. DEPOSIT OF SKI AREA PERMIT RENTAL FEES IN FEDERAL LANDS 
              RECREATION ENHANCEMENT ACT ACCOUNT.

    (a) In General.--Section 701(a) of the Omnibus Parks and Public 
Lands Management Act of 1996 (16 U.S.C. 497c(a)) is amended--
            (1) in the first sentence, by striking ``(a) The 
        Secretary'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--
            ``(1) Rental charges.--The Secretary''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Deposits.--Revenues collected under paragraph (1) 
        shall be--
                    ``(A) deposited in the applicable special account 
                in the Treasury established under section 807 of the 
                Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 
                6806); and
                    ``(B) administered and distributed in accordance 
                with that section.''.
    (b) Distribution of Ski Area Permit Fee Revenues.--Section 807 of 
the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6806) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(f) Distribution of Ski Area Permit Fee Revenues.--
            ``(1) Local distribution of funds.--
                    ``(A) Retention of revenues.--Not less than 80 
                percent of the ski area permit fees collected at a 
                specific unit or area of the Federal land management 
                agency shall remain available for expenditure, without 
                further appropriation, until expended at that unit or 
                area.
                    ``(B) Reduction.--The Secretary may reduce the 
                percentage allocation otherwise applicable under 
                subparagraph (A) to a unit or area of a Federal land 
                management agency, but not below 45 percent, for a 
                fiscal year for revenues collected from ski areas if 
                the Secretary determines that the ski area permit fee 
                revenues collected at the unit or area exceed the 
                reasonable needs of the unit or area for which 
                expenditures may be made for that fiscal year.
            ``(2) Agency-wide distribution of funds.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The balance of ski area revenues 
                not distributed in accordance with paragraph (1)(A) 
                shall remain available to that Federal land management 
                agency for expenditure on an agency-wide basis, without 
                further appropriation, until expended.
                    ``(B) Other revenue.--The balance of ski area 
                revenues not distributed in accordance with paragraph 
                (1)(B) shall remain available to that Federal land 
                management agency for expenditure only on Federal land 
                units with ski area permits, without further 
                appropriation, until expended in accordance with the 
                requirements of section 808(a)(2).''.
    (c) Use of Fees.--
            (1) In general.--Section 808(a) of the Federal Lands 
        Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6807(a)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by redesignating 
                subparagraphs (A) through (F) as clauses (i) through 
                (vi), respectively, and indenting appropriately;
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) 
                as subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C), respectively, and 
                indenting appropriately;
                    (C) by striking the subsection designation and 
                heading and all that follows through ``Amounts 
                available'' in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) 
                (as redesignated) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Use of Fees.--
            ``(1) Recreation fees.--Amounts available''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Ski area permit fees.--Ski area permit fees may be 
        used only for--
                    ``(A) recreation special use permit processing, 
                administration, implementation, support, staff time, 
                and training;
                    ``(B) implementation of the Ski Area Recreational 
                Opportunity Enhancement Act of 2011 (16 U.S.C. 497b 
                note; Public Law 112-46);
                    ``(C) improving and increasing ski area 
                recreational opportunities;
                    ``(D) maintaining and enhancing facilities used by 
                recreation permit holders; and
                    ``(E) interpretation, visitor information, visitor 
                service, and signage to enhance--
                            ``(i) visitor experience on Federal land 
                        associated with ski area permits; and
                            ``(ii) support of the Forest Service 
                        Avalanche Information and Education Program.''.
            (2) Limitation on use of fees.--Section 808(b) of the 
        Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6807(b)) is 
        amended by inserting ``or ski area permit fees'' after ``any 
        recreation fees''.
            (3) Administration, overhead, and indirect costs.--Section 
        808(c) of the Federal Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 
        U.S.C. 6807(c)) is amended by inserting ``or ski area permit 
        fee'' after ``the recreation fee''.
            (4) Transitional exception.--Section 808(d) of the Federal 
        Lands Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6807(d)) is amended 
        in the matter preceding paragraph (1) by inserting ``(other 
        than amounts derived from ski area permit fees)'' after 
        ``agency''.
            (5) Conforming amendment.--Section 802 of the Federal Lands 
        Recreation Enhancement Act (16 U.S.C. 6801) is amended--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (12) and (13) as 
                paragraphs (13) and (14), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (11) the 
                following:
            ``(12) Ski area permit fees.--The term `ski area permit 
        fees' means the fee collected from ski area permittees on land 
        managed by--
                    ``(A) the Forest Service;
                    ``(B) the National Park Service; or
                    ``(C) the Bureau of Land Management.''.
    (d) Savings Provisions.--
            (1) In general.--Nothing in this section affects the Act of 
        April 24, 1950 (commonly known as the ``Granger-Thye Act'') (64 
        Stat. 82, chapter 97), as applied to ski areas.
            (2) Maintenance of funding.--Revenue from ski area permit 
        fees retained and allocated under this section shall supplement 
        (and not supplant) other Federal funding for the basic 
        operation and maintenance of Federal land under permit to ski 
        areas or other costs associated with managing, administering, 
        or implementing ski area permits not covered by distribution 
        under this section.

SEC. 306. NATIONAL RECREATION AREA SYSTEM.

    (a) Declaration of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
that--
            (1) certain natural landscapes be conserved and managed for 
        sustainable outdoor recreational and other benefits for the 
        people of the United States; and
            (2) in addition to protecting landscapes for the 
        ecological, intrinsic, historic, or scientific value, certain 
        landscapes should be protected and managed primarily for the 
        social, spiritual, and health benefits the landscapes provide 
        for people through outdoor recreation, for the specific and 
        meaningful experiences made possible by unique and specific 
        landscapes, and for the contributions these landscapes make in 
        support of the outdoor recreation economy.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to establish a 
National Recreation Area System--
            (1) to recognize areas that possess remarkable recreational 
        values;
            (2) to recognize that land with remarkable recreational 
        values may also possess other important values that underpin 
        the remarkable recreation values, including, at a minimum--
                    (A) ecological and watershed values;
                    (B) historical and cultural values;
                    (C) scenic value;
                    (D) fish and wildlife values; and
                    (E) geological, archeological, and paleontological 
                values;
            (3) to manage System units for--
                    (A) the benefit and recreational enjoyment of 
                present and future generations; and
                    (B) conservation and restoration of the important 
                values described in paragraph (2);
            (4) to highlight that recreation contributes significantly 
        to the economy, particularly in rural and gateway communities;
            (5) to ensure the protection of public land for the benefit 
        of a variety of recreational pursuits where appropriate, 
        including both motorized and nonmotorized uses;
            (6) to recognize that recreation goals and conservation 
        goals can both be achieved in the management of public land; 
        and
            (7) to provide access to sustainable recreation 
        opportunities and enhance public enjoyment of public land.
    (c) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means--
                    (A) the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
                the Director of the Bureau of Land Management with 
                respect to land administered by the Bureau of Land 
                Management; or
                    (B) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service, with respect to 
                National Forest System land.
            (2) System.--The term ``System'' means the National 
        Recreation Area System established by subsection (d).
            (3) System unit.--The term ``System unit'' means a System 
        unit designated pursuant to subsection (d).
    (d) Composition.--There is established a National Recreation Area 
System, to be comprised of--
            (1) National Recreation Areas described in subsection (i); 
        and
            (2) the System units designated by Congress on or after the 
        date of enactment of this Act.
    (e) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall manage each System 
        unit in a manner that enhances the remarkable recreational and 
        other important values of the System unit, consistent with 
        subsection (a), and provides for the enjoyment by this and 
        future generations.
            (2) State, tribal, and local involvement.--Each State, 
        tribal, and local government is encouraged to cooperate in the 
        planning and administration of System units that include or 
        adjoin land under the jurisdiction of the State, tribal, or 
        local government.
            (3) Fish and wildlife.--
                    (A) In general.--Nothing in this section affects 
                the jurisdiction or responsibilities of a State with 
                respect to fish and wildlife in a System unit.
                    (B) Applicable law.--
                            (i) In general.--Except as provided in 
                        clause (ii), hunting and fishing shall be 
                        permitted on System units under applicable 
                        Federal and State laws (including regulations).
                            (ii) Exception.--The Secretary--
                                    (I) may designate zones in which 
                                and time periods during which no 
                                hunting shall be permitted for reasons 
                                of public safety, administration, or 
                                public use and enjoyment; and
                                    (II) in carrying out subclause (I), 
                                shall issue appropriate regulations 
                                after consultation with the wildlife 
                                agency of each State affected.
            (4) Other land management designations.--
                    (A) Wilderness areas.--
                            (i) In general.--Any portion of a 
                        wilderness area that is located within the 
                        System unit shall be administered in accordance 
                        with the Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et 
                        seq.).
                            (ii) Application.--In carrying out clause 
                        (i), in the event of any conflict between the 
                        Wilderness Act (16 U.S.C. 1131 et seq.) and 
                        this section, the more restrictive provision 
                        shall apply.
                    (B) Wild and scenic rivers.--
                            (i) In general.--Any portion of a wild and 
                        scenic river that is located within the System 
                        unit shall be administered in accordance with 
                        the Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 
                        et seq.) and this section.
                            (ii) Application.--In carrying out clause 
                        (i), in the event of any conflict between the 
                        Wild and Scenic Rivers Act (16 U.S.C. 1271 et 
                        seq.) and this section, the more restrictive 
                        provision shall apply.
                    (C) National scenic and historic trails.--
                            (i) In general.--Any portion of a National 
                        Scenic or Historic Trial that is located within 
                        the System unit shall be administered in 
                        accordance with the National Trails System Act 
                        (16 U.S.C. 1241 et seq.).
                            (ii) Application.--In carrying out clause 
                        (i), in the event of any conflict between the 
                        National Trails System Act (16 U.S.C. 1241 et 
                        seq.) and this section, the more restrictive 
                        provision shall apply.
            (5) Water rights.--Nothing in this section affects any 
        valid or vested water right in existence on the date of 
        enactment of this Act.
    (f) Components of National Recreation Area System.--
            (1) Map; legal description.--
                    (A) In general.--For System units established on or 
                after the date of enactment of this Act, as soon as 
                practicable after the date of designation of a System 
                unit, the Secretary shall prepare a map and legal 
                description of the System unit.
                    (B) Force of law.--The map and legal description 
                filed under subparagraph (A) shall have the same force 
                and effect as if included in this section, except that 
                the Secretary may correct typographical errors in the 
                map and legal description.
                    (C) Public availability.--The map and legal 
                description filed under subparagraph (A) shall be on 
                file and available for public inspection in the 
                appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management 
                and Forest Service.
            (2) Comprehensive management plan.--
                    (A) In general.--The Secretaries shall prepare a 
                comprehensive management plan for each System unit 
                within the jurisdiction of the Secretaries that is 
                designated by Congress after the date of enactment of 
                this Act to provide for the protection and enjoyment of 
                the remarkable recreational and other important values 
                of the System unit.
                    (B) Timing.--A comprehensive management plan 
                described in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) shall be prepared, and regularly 
                        reviewed and updated, as a part of the regular 
                        land management planning process of the 
                        applicable agency; and
                            (ii) unless the planning cycle of the 
                        applicable agency coincides with the 
                        designation of the System unit, shall be 
                        initially completed not later than 3 years 
                        after the date of designation of the System 
                        unit as part of the revision of plans of the 
                        applicable agency.
                    (C) Requirements.--A comprehensive management plan 
                prepared under subparagraph (A) shall--
                            (i) identify the existing, and to the 
                        extent practicable, prospective remarkable 
                        recreational and other important values of the 
                        System unit;
                            (ii) ensure the System unit is managed to 
                        protect and enhance purposes for which the 
                        System unit was established;
                            (iii) ensure the System unit is managed to 
                        protect and enhance the resources that make the 
                        area suitable for designation under subsection 
                        (d)(2) in accordance with subsection (a);
                            (iv) be coordinated with resource 
                        management planning for affected adjacent 
                        Federal land; and
                            (v) be prepared in consultation with 
                        States, political subdivisions of the State, 
                        affected Indian tribes, and the public.
                    (D) Notice.--The Secretary shall publish in the 
                Federal Register notice of the completion and 
                availability of a plan prepared under this paragraph.
                    (E) Update.--The Secretary shall periodically 
                review and update applicable management plans prepared 
                under this paragraph to address the values described in 
                paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b).
    (g) Potential Additions to National Recreation Area System.--
            (1) Eligible area.--An area eligible for inclusion in the 
        System is an area that possesses 1 or more of the values 
        described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b).
            (2) Potential additions.--In carrying out the land 
        management planning process, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) identify eligible areas that possess remarkable 
                recreational and other important values described in 
                paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b);
                    (B) develop and maintain a list of eligible areas 
                as potential additions to the System; and
                    (C) consider recommendations by the Governor of an 
                affected State or territory for potential additions to 
                the System.
    (h) Withdrawals.--Subject to valid existing rights, any land 
designated as a System unit under this section is withdrawn from all 
forms of--
            (1) entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land 
        laws;
            (2) location, entry, and patent under the mining laws; and
            (3) disposition under all laws pertaining to mineral and 
        geothermal leasing or mineral materials.
    (i) Existing National Recreation Areas.--Each National Recreation 
Area established as of the date of enactment of this Act and 
administered by the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief 
of the Forest Service, or the Secretary of the Interior, acting through 
the Director of the Bureau of Land Management, before the date of 
enactment of this Act shall be--
            (1) deemed to be a unit of the System; and
            (2) notwithstanding subsection (e), administered under law 
        pertaining to that System unit.
    (j) Standard Fees.--In accordance with sections 803 through 808 of 
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005 (16 U.S.C. 6802-6807), the 
Secretary may establish a standard amenity fee at each of the areas 
within the National Recreation Area System that are managed by the 
Bureau of Land Management or the Forest Service, if--
            (1) the purpose of the fee is to enhance visitor services 
        and stewardship of the recreation area; and
            (2) the establishment of a fee is not prohibited by other 
        Federal law.
    (k) Compliance With Existing Laws.--Nothing in this section 
modifies any obligation--
            (1) of the Secretary to prepare or implement a land use 
        plan in accordance with section 202 of the Federal Land Policy 
        and Management Act of 1976 (43 U.S.C. 1712) or section 6 of the 
        Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 
        (16 U.S.C. 1604);
            (2) under the Endangered Species Act of 1973 (16 U.S.C. 
        1531 et seq.);
            (3) under the Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 
        U.S.C. 1251 et seq.); or
            (4) under any other applicable law.
    (l) Conflict With Other Laws.--In the case of a conflict between 
the provisions of this section and other law, the more restrictive 
provisions shall apply.
    (m) Native American Treaty Rights.--Nothing in this section alters, 
modifies, enlarges, diminishes, or abrogates the treaty rights of any 
Indian tribe, including any off-reservation reserved rights.

                  TITLE IV--MAINTENANCE OF PUBLIC LAND

                         Subtitle A--Volunteers

SEC. 401. PRIVATE-SECTOR VOLUNTEER ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM.

    (a) Purpose.--The purpose of this section is to promote private-
sector volunteer programs within the Department of the Interior and the 
Department of Agriculture to enhance stewardship, recreation access, 
and sustainability of the resources, values, and facilities of the 
Federal land managed by the Federal land management agencies.
    (b) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Federal land.--The term ``Federal land'' means any 
        land--
                    (A) owned by the United States; and
                    (B) managed by the head of a Federal land 
                management agency.
            (2) Secretary concerned.--The term ``Secretary concerned'' 
        means--
                    (A) the Secretary of Agriculture (acting through 
                the Chief of the Forest Service), with respect to 
                National Forest System land; and
                    (B) the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to 
                land managed by the Bureau of Land Management.
            (3) Volunteer.--The term ``volunteer'' means any individual 
        who performs volunteer services under this section.
    (c) Establishment.--The Secretary concerned shall develop an 
initiative to further enhance private-sector volunteer programs and to 
actively promote private-sector volunteer opportunities and provide 
outreach and coordination to the private sector.
    (d) Cooperative Agreements for Stewardship of Federal Land.--
            (1) Authority to enter into agreements.--The Secretary 
        concerned may enter into cooperative agreements (in accordance 
        with section 6305 of title 31, United States Code) with private 
        agencies, organizations, institutions, corporations, 
        individuals, or other entities to carry out 1 or more projects 
        or programs with a Federal land management agency in accordance 
        with this section.
            (2) Project and program instructions.--The Secretary 
        concerned shall include in the cooperative agreement the 
        desired outcomes of the project or program and the guidelines 
        for the volunteers to follow, including--
                    (A) the physical boundaries of the project or 
                program;
                    (B) the equipment the volunteers are authorized to 
                use to complete the project or program;
                    (C) the training the volunteers are required to 
                complete, including agency consideration and 
                incorporation of trainings offered by qualified 
                nongovernmental organizations and volunteer partner 
                organizations;
                    (D) the actions the volunteers are authorized to 
                take to complete the project or program; and
                    (E) any other information that the Secretary 
                concerned determines necessary for the volunteer group 
                to complete the project or program.
            (3) Authorized projects and programs.--Subject to paragraph 
        (4), the Secretary concerned may use a cooperative agreement to 
        carry out projects and programs for Federal land that--
                    (A) promote the stewardship of resources of Federal 
                land by volunteers;
                    (B) support maintaining the resources, trails, and 
                facilities on Federal land in a sustainable manner;
                    (C) increase awareness, understanding, and 
                stewardship of Federal land through the development, 
                publication, or distribution of educational materials 
                and products; and
                    (D) advance education concerning the Federal land 
                and the missions of the Federal land management 
                agencies through the use of the Federal land as outdoor 
                classrooms and development of other educational 
                programs.
            (4) Conditions on use of authority.--The Secretary 
        concerned may use a cooperative agreement under paragraph (1) 
        to carry out a project or program for the Federal land only if 
        the project or program--
                    (A) complies with all Federal laws (including 
                regulations) and policies;
                    (B) is consistent with an applicable management 
                plan for any Federal land and waters involved;
                    (C) is monitored by the relevant Federal land 
                management agency during the project and after project 
                completion to determine compliance with the 
                instructions under paragraph (2); and
                    (D) satisfies such other terms and conditions as 
                the Secretary concerned determines to be appropriate.

SEC. 402. FOREST SERVICE VOLUNTEER LIABILITY.

    Section 3 of the Volunteers in the National Forests Act of 1972 (16 
U.S.C. 558c) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(e) Inclusion.--For purposes of subsections (b), (c), and (d), 
the term `volunteer' includes a person providing volunteer services to 
the Secretary--
            ``(1) who is recruited, trained, and supported by a 
        cooperator under a mutual benefit agreement with the Secretary; 
        and
            ``(2) who performs volunteer services under the collective 
        supervision, guidance, and oversight of the Secretary and the 
        cooperator as mutually agreed to by the Secretary and the 
        cooperator.''.

                 Subtitle B--Priority Trail Maintenance

SEC. 411. DEFINITION OF SECRETARIES.

    In this subtitle, the term ``Secretaries'' means--
            (1) the Secretary of the Interior; and
            (2) the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief 
        of the Forest Service.

SEC. 412. PRIORITY TRAIL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM.

    (a) Selection of Priority Landscapes.--In accordance with 
subsections (b) and (c), not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall select not fewer than 9 
and not more than 15 priority landscapes for increased trail 
maintenance.
    (b) Criteria.--The priority landscapes selected under subsection 
(a) shall include a well-defined region in which--
            (1) the lack of trail maintenance has--
                    (A) reduced access to public land;
                    (B) led to an increase, or risk of increase, in 
                harm to natural resources;
                    (C) jeopardized public safety; or
                    (D) increased future trail maintenance costs;
            (2) additional resources can meet unmet demands on well-
        traveled trails;
            (3) trails--
                    (A) have been, or are subsequently, designated as 
                national recreation, scenic, or historic trails; or
                    (B) are located within a designated National 
                Recreation Area or National Scenic Area;
            (4) trails have been identified as a priority in a 
        Statewide comprehensive outdoor recreation plan; or
            (5) trails are located within a landscape identified as a 
        priority under the large landscapes collaborative process of 
        the Secretaries.
    (c) Requirements.--In selecting priority landscapes under 
subsection (a), the Secretaries shall--
            (1) provide opportunities for and consider any public input 
        on priority landscapes received by not later than 90 days after 
        the date of enactment of this Act; and
            (2) select not less than 1 priority landscape in each 
        geographic region of the United States.
    (d) Increased Trail Maintenance.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date on 
        which the Secretaries select the priority landscapes under 
        subsection (a), the Secretaries shall develop a plan to 
        substantially increase trail maintenance in each priority 
        landscape.
            (2) Contents.--In developing the plan under paragraph (1), 
        the Secretaries shall--
                    (A) provide opportunities for and consider any 
                public input on trail maintenance priorities and needs 
                in each priority landscape;
                    (B) consider the costs and benefits of increased 
                trail maintenance in each priority landscape; and
                    (C) incorporate trail maintenance partners and 
                volunteers, including youth organizations.
            (3) Required trail maintenance.--In carrying out the plan 
        developed under paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall 
        substantially increase trail maintenance in each priority 
        landscape.
    (e) Revision.--The Secretaries--
            (1) shall periodically review the priority landscapes 
        selected under subsection (a) to determine whether revisions to 
        the priority landscapes are necessary; and
            (2) may revise the priority landscapes, including by 
        selecting new priority landscapes or removing existing priority 
        landscapes, at the sole discretion of the Secretaries.

SEC. 413. PRIORITY TRAIL MAINTENANCE PROGRAM FUND.

    There is established in the Treasury of the United States a fund to 
be known as the ``Priority Trail Maintenance Program Fund'', consisting 
of such amounts as are appropriated to the Priority Trail Maintenance 
Program Fund, for trail maintenance in the priority landscapes selected 
by the Secretaries under section 412(a).

SEC. 414. INTERAGENCY TRAIL MANAGEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretaries shall establish an interagency 
trail management plan under which Federal land management agencies 
shall coordinate so that trails that cross jurisdictional boundaries 
between the Federal land management agencies are managed and maintained 
in a uniform manner.
    (b) Requirement.--The plan established under subsection (a) shall 
ensure compliance with all Federal environmental laws applicable to 
each jurisdiction.

         Subtitle C--Public Lands Service Corps Act Amendments

SEC. 421. AMENDMENT TO SHORT TITLE.

    Section 201 of the Public Lands Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1701 
note; 107 Stat. 848) is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE; REFERENCES.

    ``(a) Short Title.--This title may be cited as the `Public Lands 
Service Corps Act of 1993'.
    ``(b) References.--Any reference contained in any law, regulation, 
document, paper, or other record of the United States to the `Public 
Lands Corps Act of 1993' shall be considered to be a reference to the 
`Public Lands Service Corps Act of 1993'.''.

SEC. 422. REFERENCE.

    A reference in this subtitle to ``the Act'' is a reference to the 
Public Lands Service Corps Act of 1993 (16 U.S.C. 1721 et seq.; title 
II of Public Law 91-378).

SEC. 423. AMENDMENTS TO PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE CORPS ACT OF 1993.

    (a) Name and Project Description Changes.--The Act is amended--
            (1) in the title heading, by striking ``PUBLIC LANDS 
        CORPS'' and inserting ``PUBLIC LANDS SERVICE CORPS'';
            (2) in section 204 (16 U.S.C. 1723), in the heading, by 
        striking ``public lands corps'' and inserting ``public lands 
        service corps'';
            (3) in section 210(a)(2) (16 U.S.C. 1729(a)(2)), in the 
        heading, by striking ``Public lands'';
            (4) by striking ``Public Lands Corps'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``Corps'';
            (5) by striking ``conservation center'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``residential conservation center'';
            (6) by striking ``conservation centers'' each place it 
        appears and inserting ``residential conservation centers'';
            (7) by striking ``appropriate conservation project'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``appropriate natural and 
        cultural resources conservation project''; and
            (8) by striking ``appropriate conservation projects'' each 
        place it appears and inserting ``appropriate natural and 
        cultural resources conservation projects''.
    (b) Findings.--Section 202(a) of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1721(a)) (as 
amended by subsection (a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Corps can benefit'' and inserting 
                ``conservation corps can benefit''; and
                    (B) by striking ``the natural and cultural'' and 
                inserting ``natural and cultural'';
            (2) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as paragraphs 
        (4) and (5), respectively;
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Participants in conservation corps receive meaningful 
        education and training, and their experience with conservation 
        corps provides preparation for careers in public service.
            ``(3) Young men and women who provide service in support of 
        rehabilitation, promotion, and restoration of the natural, 
        cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, and scenic 
        treasures of the United States will gain an increased 
        appreciation and understanding of the public lands and heritage 
        of the United States, and of the value of public service, and 
        are likely to become life-long advocates for those values.'';
            (4) in paragraph (4) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), by 
        inserting ``, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, 
        and scenic'' after ``Many facilities and natural''; and
            (5) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(6) The work of conservation corps can benefit 
        communities adjacent to public lands and facilities through 
        renewed civic engagement and participation by corps 
        participants and those they serve, improved student 
        achievement, and restoration and rehabilitation of public 
        assets.''.
    (c) Purpose.--Section 202 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1721(b)) is amended 
by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Purposes.--The purposes of this Act are--
            ``(1) to introduce young men and women to public service 
        while furthering their understanding and appreciation of the 
        natural, cultural, historic, archaeological, recreational, and 
        scenic resources of the United States;
            ``(2) to facilitate training and recruitment opportunities 
        in which service is credited as qualifying experience for 
        careers in the management of such resources;
            ``(3) to instill in a new generation of young men and women 
        from across the United States, including young men and women 
        from diverse backgrounds, the desire to seek careers in 
        resource stewardship and public service by allowing them to 
        work directly with professionals in agencies responsible for 
        the management of the natural, cultural, historic, 
        archaeological, recreational, and scenic resources of the 
        United States;
            ``(4) to perform, in a cost-effective manner, appropriate 
        natural and cultural resources conservation projects where such 
        projects are not being performed by existing employees;
            ``(5) to assist Federal, State, and local governments and 
        Indian tribes in performing research and public education tasks 
        associated with the conservation of natural, cultural, 
        historic, archaeological, recreational, and scenic resources;
            ``(6) to expand educational opportunities on public lands 
        and by rewarding individuals who participate in conservation 
        corps with an increased ability to pursue higher education and 
        job training;
            ``(7) to promote public understanding and appreciation of 
        the missions and the natural and cultural resources 
        conservation work of the participating Federal agencies through 
        training opportunities, community service and outreach, and 
        other appropriate means; and
            ``(8) to create a grant program for Indian tribes to 
        establish the Indian Youth Service Corps so that Indian youth 
        can benefit from carrying out projects on Indian lands that the 
        Indian tribes and communities determine to be priorities.''.
    (d) Definitions.--Section 203 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1722) is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (7), (8) 
        through (10), and (11) through (13) as paragraphs (5) through 
        (9), (11) through (13), and (15) through (17), respectively;
            (2) by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) and inserting the 
        following:
            ``(1) Appropriate natural and cultural resources 
        conservation project.--The term `appropriate natural and 
        cultural resources conservation project' means any project in 
        support of or for the conservation, restoration, construction, 
        or rehabilitation of natural, cultural, historic, 
        archaeological, recreational, or scenic resources and programs.
            ``(2) Consulting intern.--The term `consulting intern' 
        means a consulting intern selected under section 206(a)(2).
            ``(3) Corps; public lands service corps.--The terms `Corps' 
        and `Public Lands Service Corps' mean the Public Lands Service 
        Corps established by section 204(a).
            ``(4) Corps participant.--The term `Corps participant' 
        means an individual enrolled--
                    ``(A) in the Corps or the Indian Youth Service 
                Corps; or
                    ``(B) as a resource assistant or consulting 
                intern.'';
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (9) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:
            ``(10) Indian youth service corps.--The term `Indian Youth 
        Service Corps' means a qualified youth or conservation corps 
        established under section 207 that--
                    ``(A) enrolls individuals between the ages of 15 
                and 25, inclusive, a majority of whom are Indians; and
                    ``(B) is established pursuant to a tribal 
                resolution that describes the agreement between the 
                Indian tribe and the qualified youth or conservation 
                corps to operate an Indian Youth Service Corps program 
                for the benefit of the members of the Indian tribe.'';
            (4) by striking paragraph (12) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) and inserting the following:
            ``(12) Public lands.--The term `public lands' means any 
        land or water (or interest therein) owned or administered by 
        the United States, including those areas of coastal and ocean 
        waters, the Great Lakes and their connecting waters, and 
        submerged lands over which the United States exercises 
        jurisdiction, except that such term does not include Indian 
        lands.'';
            (5) in paragraph (13) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``full-time,'';
                            (ii) by inserting ``on eligible service 
                        lands'' after ``resource setting''; and
                            (iii) by striking ``16'' and inserting 
                        ``15'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (D) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(D) makes available for audit for each fiscal 
                year for which the qualified youth or conservation 
                corps receives Federal funds under this Act, all 
                information pertaining to the expenditure of the funds, 
                any matching funds, and participant demographics.'';
            (6) by inserting after paragraph (13) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:
            ``(14) Residential conservation centers.--The term 
        `residential conservation centers' means the facilities 
        authorized under section 205.'';
            (7) in paragraph (15) (as redesignated by paragraph (1)), 
        by striking ``206'' and inserting ``206(a)(1)''; and
            (8) in paragraph (16) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) with respect to the National Marine Sanctuary 
                System, coral reefs, and other coastal, estuarine, and 
                marine habitats, and other lands and facilities 
                administered by the National Oceanic and Atmospheric 
                Administration, the Secretary of Commerce.''.
    (e) Public Lands Service Corps Program.--Section 204 of the Act (16 
U.S.C. 1723) (as amended by subsection (a)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (b) and (c) and 
        subsections (d) through (f) as subsections (c) and (d) and 
        subsections (f) through (h), respectively;
            (2) by striking subsection (a) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Establishment of Public Lands Service Corps.--There is 
established in the Department of the Interior, the Department of 
Agriculture, and the Department of Commerce a Public Lands Service 
Corps.
    ``(b) Establishment of Corps Office; Coordinators; Liaison.--
            ``(1) Establishment of offices.--
                    ``(A) Department of the interior.--The Secretary of 
                the Interior shall establish a department-level office 
                to coordinate the Corps activities within the 
                Department of the Interior.
                    ``(B) Department of agriculture.--The Secretary of 
                Agriculture shall establish within the Forest Service 
                an office to coordinate the Corps activities within 
                that agency.
                    ``(C) Department of commerce.--The Secretary of 
                Commerce shall establish within the National Oceanic 
                and Atmospheric Administration an office to coordinate 
                the Corps activities within that agency.
            ``(2) Establishment of coordinators.--The Secretary shall 
        designate a Public Lands Service Corps coordinator for each 
        agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that administers 
        Corps activities.
            ``(3) Establishment of liaison.--The Secretary of the 
        Interior shall establish an Indian Youth Service Corps liaison 
        that will--
                    ``(A) provide outreach to Indian tribes about 
                opportunities for establishing Corps and Indian Youth 
                Service Corps programs; and
                    ``(B) coordinate with the Tribal Liaison of the 
                Corporation for National Service to identify and 
                establish Corps and Indian Youth Service Corps 
                opportunities for Indian youth.'';
            (3) by striking subsection (c) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Participants.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary may enroll in the Corps 
        individuals who are--
                    ``(A) hired by an agency under the jurisdiction of 
                the Secretary to perform work authorized under this 
                Act; or
                    ``(B) members of a qualified youth or conservation 
                corps with which the Secretary has entered into a 
                cooperative agreement to perform work authorized under 
                this Act.
            ``(2) Resource assistants and consulting interns.--The 
        Secretary may also enroll in the Corps resource assistants and 
        consulting interns in accordance with section 206(a).
            ``(3) Eligibility requirements.--To be eligible for 
        enrollment as a Corps participant, an individual shall--
                    ``(A)(i) be between the ages of 15 and 25, 
                inclusive; or
                    ``(ii) in the case of a military veteran, be not 
                older than 35; and
                    ``(B) satisfy the requirements of section 137(a)(5) 
                of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 
                U.S.C. 12591(a)(5)).
            ``(4) Terms.--Each Corps participant may be enrolled in the 
        Corps for a term of up to 2 years of service, which may be 
        served over a period that exceeds 2 calendar years.
            ``(5) Civil service.--An individual may be enrolled as a 
        Corps participant without regard to the civil service and 
        classification laws, rules, or regulations of the United 
        States.
            ``(6) Preference.--The Secretary may establish a preference 
        for the enrollment as Corps participants individuals who are 
        economically, physically, or educationally disadvantaged.
            ``(7) Local preference.--The Secretary may establish a 
        preference for enrollment of Corps participants individuals who 
        live in the State or region in which the work is being 
        performed.'';
            (4) in subsection (d) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``contracts and''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subsection (d)'' and 
                        inserting ``subsection (f)'';
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2); and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Recruitment.--The Secretary shall carry out, or enter 
        into cooperative agreements to provide, a program to attract 
        eligible youth to the Corps by publicizing Corps opportunities 
        through high schools, colleges, employment centers, electronic 
        media, and other appropriate institutions and means.
            ``(3) Preference.--In entering into cooperative agreements 
        under paragraph (1) or awarding competitive grants to Indian 
        tribes or tribally authorized organizations under section 207, 
        the Secretary may give preference to qualified youth or 
        conservation corps that are located in specific areas where a 
        substantial portion of members are economically, physically, or 
        educationally disadvantaged.'';
            (5) by inserting after subsection (d) (as redesignated by 
        paragraph (1)) the following:
    ``(e) Training.--For purposes of training, the Secretary shall take 
into account training already received by Corps participants enrolled 
from qualified youth or conservation corps.'';
            (6) in subsection (f) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the heading, by striking ``In 
                        general.--'' and inserting ``Use of corps; 
                        projects.--'';
                            (ii) by striking ``The Secretary may 
                        utilize the Corps or any qualified youth or 
                        conservation corps to carry out'' and inserting 
                        the following:
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may use the Corps 
                to carry out, with appropriate supervision and 
                training,'';
                            (iii) by striking ``on public lands'' and 
                        inserting on ``on eligible service lands''; and
                            (iv) by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(B) Projects.--Appropriate natural and cultural 
                resources conservation projects carried out under this 
                section may include--
                            ``(i) protecting, restoring, or enhancing 
                        ecosystem components to promote species 
                        recovery, improve biological diversity, enhance 
                        productivity and carbon sequestration, and 
                        enhance adaptability and resilience of eligible 
                        service lands and resources to climate change 
                        and other natural and human disturbances;
                            ``(ii) promoting the health of eligible 
                        service lands, including--
                                    ``(I) protecting and restoring 
                                watersheds and forest, grassland, 
                                riparian, estuarine, marine, or other 
                                habitat;
                                    ``(II) reducing the risk of 
                                uncharacteristically severe wildfire 
                                and mitigating damage from insects, 
                                disease, and disasters;
                                    ``(III) controlling erosion;
                                    ``(IV) controlling and removing 
                                invasive, noxious, or nonnative 
                                species; and
                                    ``(V) restoring native species;
                            ``(iii) collecting biological, 
                        archaeological, and other scientific data, 
                        including climatological information, species 
                        populations and movement, habitat status, and 
                        other information;
                            ``(iv) assisting in historical and cultural 
                        research, museum curatorial work, oral history 
                        projects, documentary photography, and 
                        activities that support the creation of public 
                        works of art related to eligible service lands; 
                        and
                            ``(v) constructing, repairing, 
                        rehabilitating, and maintaining roads, trails, 
                        campgrounds and other visitor facilities, 
                        employee housing, cultural and historic sites 
                        and structures, and other facilities that 
                        further the purposes of this Act.'';
                    (B) by redesignating paragraphs (2) and (3) as 
                paragraphs (4) and (5), respectively; and
                    (C) by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:
            ``(2) Visitor services.--The Secretary may--
                    ``(A) enter into or amend an existing cooperative 
                agreement with a cooperating association, educational 
                institution, friends group, or similar nonprofit 
                partner organization for the purpose of providing 
                training and work experience to Corps participants in 
                areas such as sales, office work, accounting, and 
                management, provided that the work experience directly 
                relates to the conservation and management of eligible 
                service lands; and
                    ``(B) allow Corps participants to help promote 
                visitor safety and enjoyment of eligible service lands, 
                and assist in the gathering of visitor use data.
            ``(3) Interpretation.--The Secretary may permit Corps 
        participants to provide interpretation or education services 
        for the public under the direct and immediate supervision of an 
        agency employee--
                    ``(A) to provide orientation and information 
                services to visitors;
                    ``(B) to assist agency employees in the delivery of 
                interpretive or educational programs where audience 
                size, environmental conditions, safety, or other 
                factors make such assistance desirable;
                    ``(C) to present programs that relate the personal 
                experience of the Corps participants for the purpose of 
                promoting public awareness of the Corps, the role of 
                the Corps in public land management agencies, and the 
                availability of the Corps to potential participants; 
                and
                    ``(D) to create nonpersonal interpretive products, 
                such as website content, Junior Ranger program books, 
                printed handouts, and audiovisual programs.'';
            (7) in subsection (g) (as redesignated by paragraph (1))--
                    (A) in the matter preceding the first paragraph, by 
                striking ``those projects which'' and inserting 
                ``priority projects and other projects that''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(2) will instill in Corps participants a work ethic and a 
        sense of public service;''; and
            (8) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(i) Other Participants.--The Secretary may allow volunteers from 
other programs administered or designated by the Secretary to 
participate as volunteers in projects carried out under this section.
    ``(j) Criminal History Checks.--
            ``(1) In general.--The requirements of section 189D(b) of 
        the National and Community Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 
        12645g(b)) shall apply to each individual age 18 or older 
        seeking--
                    ``(A) to become a Corps participant;
                    ``(B) to receive funds authorized under this Act; 
                or
                    ``(C) to supervise or otherwise have regular 
                contact with Corps participants in activities 
                authorized under this Act.
            ``(2) Eligibility prohibition.--If any of paragraphs (1) 
        through (4) of section 189D(c) of the National and Community 
        Service Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12645g(c)) apply to an 
        individual described in paragraph (1), that individual shall 
        not be eligible for the position or activity described in 
        paragraph (1), unless the Secretary provides an exemption for 
        good cause.''.
    (f) Residential Conservation Centers and Program Support.--Section 
205 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1724) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``The Secretary'' and inserting the 
                following:
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary''; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(2) Temporary housing.--The Secretary may make 
        arrangements with another Federal agency, State, local 
        government, or private organization to provide temporary 
        housing for Corps participants as needed and available.
            ``(3) Transportation.--In project areas where Corps 
        participants reside at their own homes, the Secretary may 
        provide transportation to and from project sites.'';
            (2) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e);
            (3) by inserting after subsection (c) the following:
    ``(d) Mentors.--The Secretary may recruit from programs, such as 
Federal volunteer and encore service programs, and from veterans 
groups, military retirees, and active duty personnel, such adults as 
may be suitable and qualified to provide training, mentoring, and crew-
leading services to Corps participants.''; and
            (4) in subsection (e) (as redesignated by paragraph (2)), 
        by striking ``that are appropriate'' and all that follows 
        through the period and inserting ``that the Secretary 
        determines to be necessary for a residential conservation 
        center.''.
    (g) Resource Assistants and Consulting Interns.--Section 206 of the 
Act (16 U.S.C. 1725) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by inserting ``and consulting 
        interns'' before the period; and
            (2) by striking subsections (a) and (b) and inserting the 
        following:
    ``(a) Authorization.--
            ``(1) Resource assistants.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may provide 
                individual placements of resource assistants with any 
                agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that 
                carries out appropriate natural and cultural resources 
                conservation projects to carry out research or resource 
                protection activities on behalf of the agency.
                    ``(B) Eligibility.--To be eligible for selection as 
                a resource assistant, an individual shall be at least 
                17 years of age.
                    ``(C) Preference.--In selecting resource assistants 
                for placement under this paragraph, the Secretary shall 
                give a preference to individuals who are enrolled in an 
                institution of higher education or are recent graduates 
                from an institution of higher education, with 
                particular attention given to ensuring full 
                representation of women and participants from 
                Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Hispanic-
                serving institutions, and Tribal Colleges and 
                Universities.
            ``(2) Consulting interns.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may provide 
                individual placements of consulting interns with any 
                agency under the jurisdiction of the Secretary that 
                carries out appropriate natural and cultural resources 
                conservation projects to carry out management analysis 
                activities on behalf of the agency.
                    ``(B) Eligibility.--To be eligible for selection as 
                a consulting intern, an individual shall be enrolled 
                in, and have completed at least 1 full year at, a 
                graduate or professional school that has been 
                accredited by an accrediting body recognized by the 
                Secretary of Education.
    ``(b) Use of Existing Nonprofit Organizations.--
            ``(1) In general.--Whenever 1 or more nonprofit 
        organizations can provide appropriate recruitment and placement 
        services to fulfill the requirements of this section, the 
        Secretary may implement this section through such 
        organizations.
            ``(2) Expenses.--Participating organizations shall 
        contribute to the expenses of providing and supporting the 
        resource assistants or consulting interns from sources of 
        funding other than the Secretary, at a level of not less than 
        25 percent of the total costs of each participant in the 
        resource assistant or consulting intern program who has been 
        recruited and placed through that organization.
            ``(3) Reporting.--Each participating organization shall be 
        required to submit an annual report evaluating the scope, size, 
        and quality of the program, including the value of work 
        contributed by the resource assistants and consulting interns, 
        to the mission of the agency.''.
    (h) Technical Amendment.--The Act is amended by redesignating 
sections 207 through 211 (16 U.S.C. 1726 through 1730) as sections 209 
through 213, respectively.
    (i) Indian Youth Service Corps.--The Act is amended by inserting 
after section 206 (16 U.S.C. 1725) the following:

``SEC. 207. INDIAN YOUTH SERVICE CORPS.

    ``(a) Authorization of Cooperative Agreements and Competitive 
Grants.--The Secretary is authorized to enter into cooperative 
agreements with, or make competitive grants to, Indian tribes and 
qualified youth or conservation corps for the establishment and 
administration of Indian Youth Service Corps programs to carry out 
appropriate natural and cultural resources conservation projects on 
Indian lands.
    ``(b) Application.--To be eligible to receive assistance under this 
section, an Indian tribe or a qualified youth or conservation corps 
shall submit to the Secretary an application in such manner and 
containing such information as the Secretary may require, including--
            ``(1) a description of the methods by which Indian youth 
        will be recruited for and retained in the Indian Youth Service 
        Corps;
            ``(2) a description of the projects to be carried out by 
        the Indian Youth Service Corps;
            ``(3) a description of how the projects were identified; 
        and
            ``(4) an explanation of the impact of, and the direct 
        community benefits provided by, the proposed projects.''.
    (j) Guidance.--The Act is amended by inserting after section 207 
(as amended by subsection (i)) the following:

``SEC. 208. GUIDANCE.

    ``Not later than 18 months after the date on which funds are made 
available to the Secretary to carry out this Act, the Secretary shall 
issue guidelines for the management of programs under the jurisdiction 
of the Secretary that are authorized under this Act.''.
    (k) Living Allowances and Terms of Service.--Section 209 of the Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1726) (as redesignated by subsection (h)) is amended by 
striking subsections (a), (b), and (c) and inserting the following:
    ``(a) Living Allowances.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Secretary shall provide each Corps 
        participant with a living allowance in an amount established by 
        the Secretary.
            ``(2) Travel costs.--The Secretary may reimburse Corps 
        participants for travel costs at the beginning and end of the 
        term of service of the Corps participants.
    ``(b) Terms of Service.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each Corps participant shall agree to 
        participate for such term of service as may be established by 
        the Secretary.
            ``(2) Consultations.--With respect to the Indian Youth 
        Service Corps, the term of service shall be established in 
        consultation with the affected Indian tribe or tribally 
        authorized organization.
    ``(c) Hiring Preference and Future Employment.--The Secretary may--
            ``(1) grant to a Corps participant credit for time served 
        as a Corps participant, which may be used toward future Federal 
        hiring;
            ``(2) provide to a former participant of the Corps or the 
        Indian Youth Service Corps noncompetitive hiring status for a 
        period of not more than 2 years after the date on which the 
        service of the candidate in the Corps or the Indian Youth 
        Service Corps was complete, if the candidate--
                    ``(A) has served a minimum of 960 hours on an 
                appropriate natural or cultural resources conservation 
                project that included at least 120 hours through the 
                Corps or the Indian Youth Service Corps; and
                    ``(B) meets Office of Personnel Management 
                qualification standards for the position for which the 
                candidate is applying;
            ``(3) provide to a former resource assistant or consulting 
        intern noncompetitive hiring status for a period of not more 
        than 2 years after the date on which the individual has 
        completed an undergraduate or graduate degree, respectively, 
        from an accredited institution, if the candidate--
                    ``(A) successfully fulfilled the resource assistant 
                or consulting intern program requirements; and
                    ``(B) meets Office of Personnel Management 
                qualification standards for the position for which the 
                candidate is applying; and
            ``(4) provide, or enter into contracts or cooperative 
        agreements with qualified employment agencies to provide, 
        alumni services such as job and education counseling, 
        referrals, verification of service, communications, and other 
        appropriate services to Corps participants who have completed 
        the term of service.''.
    (l) National Service Educational Awards.--Section 210 of the Act 
(16 U.S.C. 1727) (as redesignated by subsection (h)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a) (as amended by subsection (a)(4)), in 
        the first sentence--
                    (A) by striking ``participant in the Corps or a 
                resource assistant'' and inserting ``Corps 
                participant''; and
                    (B) by striking ``participant or resource 
                assistant'' and inserting ``Corps participant''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``either participants in the Corps 
                or resource assistants'' and inserting ``Corps 
                participants''; and
                    (B) by striking ``or a resource assistant''.
    (m) Nondisplacement.--Section 211 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1728) (as 
redesignated by subsection (h)) is amended by striking ``activities 
carried out'' and all that follows through the period and inserting 
``Corps participants.''.
    (n) Funding.--Section 212 of the Act (16 U.S.C. 1729) (as 
redesignated by subsection (h)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the second sentence, by striking 
                        ``nonfederal sources'' and inserting ``sources 
                        other than the Secretary''; and
                            (ii) by inserting after the second sentence 
                        the following: ``The Secretary may pay up to 90 
                        percent of the costs of a project if the 
                        Secretary determines that the reduction is 
                        necessary to enable participation from a 
                        greater range of organizations or 
                        individuals.''; and
                    (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``or Indian 
                Youth Service Corps'' after ``Corps'' each place it 
                appears;
            (2) by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) Funds Available Under National and Community Service Act.--To 
carry out this Act, the Secretary shall be eligible to apply for and 
receive assistance under section 121(b) of the National and Community 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 12571(b)).''; and
            (3) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) by striking ``section 211'' and inserting 
                ``section 213''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``or Indian Youth Service Corps'' 
                after ``Corps''.
    (o) Authorization of Appropriations.--Section 213 of the Act (16 
U.S.C. 1730) (as redesignated by subsection (h)) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``year'' and all that 
        follows through the period and inserting ``year.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (b); and
            (3) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection (b).

SEC. 424. DIRECT HIRE AUTHORITY.

    Section 121(a) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2012 (16 
U.S.C. 1725a(a)), is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)--
                    (A) by inserting ``and the Secretary of 
                Agriculture'' after ``Secretary of the Interior'';
                    (B) by striking ``paragraph (1)'' and inserting 
                ``paragraph (2)''; and
                    (C) by inserting ``or the Department of 
                Agriculture, as applicable,'' after ``Department of the 
                Interior''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by inserting ``or consulting intern'' after ``resource 
        assistant''.
                                 <all>
