[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 553 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                 S. 553

 To marshal resources to undertake a concerted, transformative effort 
 that seeks to bring an end to modern slavery, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           February 24, 2015

  Mr. Corker (for himself, Mr. Menendez, Mr. Rubio, Mrs. Shaheen, Ms. 
   Ayotte, Mr. Coons, Mr. McCain, Mr. Blumenthal, Mr. Alexander, Mr. 
Portman, Mr. Kirk, and Mr. Cardin) introduced the following bill; which 
   was read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To marshal resources to undertake a concerted, transformative effort 
 that seeks to bring an end to modern slavery, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``End Modern Slavery Initiative Act of 
2015''.

SEC. 2. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States has a long history of domestic and 
        international engagement in preventing and responding to modern 
        slavery;
            (2) modern slavery involves extensive criminal activity and 
        demands the full attention and commitment of the United States;
            (3) the United States Government should continue to 
        coordinate across departments and agencies to prevent and 
        respond to this heinous activity that involves over 21,000,000 
        people worldwide through sustained investment in integrated, 
        interagency anti-trafficking initiatives;
            (4) while United States Government efforts continue to 
        address many facets of modern slavery, there is an urgent need 
        today for international public and private cooperation to 
        increase resources available to programs that can make a 
        measureable impact in reducing the prevalence of modern slavery 
        by building the capacity of foreign governments to sustainably 
        deter perpetrators of modern slavery through--
                    (A) establishing and enforcing the rule of law to 
                hold perpetrators of modern slavery accountable, 
                including--
                            (i) those who enslave children and adults 
                        in the sex trade; and
                            (ii) those who enslave through forced labor 
                        and abusive labor recruitment practices and 
                        fees;
                    (B) promoting justice for victims of modern 
                slavery;
                    (C) restoring and protecting survivors of modern 
                slavery; and
                    (D) building partnerships between governments, 
                civil society organizations, private sector entities 
                and individuals, and survivors to seek to bring an end 
                to modern slavery; and
            (5) countries that fall within the first and second tiers 
        of the United States Department of State's annual Trafficking 
        in Persons report could qualify as partner countries for the 
        purposes of this Act, and many countries that fall within the 
        Tier 2 watch list may also qualify, and therefore should be 
        eligible for funding as partner countries under this Act, along 
        with key jurisdictions of other countries, such as Tier 3 
        countries.

SEC. 3. POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States Government--
            (1) to marshal resources to seek to bring to an end modern 
        slavery through the provision of matching funds to a private 
        grant-making institution, in partnership with private donors 
        and other governments, that selects and supports innovative 
        strategies with the aim of verifiably and sustainably reducing 
        the prevalence of modern slavery by 50 percent in targeted 
        populations within partner countries (or jurisdictions thereof) 
        with a high prevalence of modern slavery;
            (2) to allow such a private grant-making institution the 
        flexibility to work in jurisdictions of other countries, where 
        those jurisdictions have demonstrated the type of commitment 
        and capabilities otherwise required of partner countries; and
            (3) to engage other countries with a high prevalence of 
        modern slavery through the full range of United States 
        Government foreign assistance programs in order to help those 
        countries become eligible as partner countries for the purposes 
        of receiving additional assistance under the End Modern Slavery 
        Initiative established by this Act.

SEC. 4. THE END MODERN SLAVERY INITIATIVE FOUNDATION.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, there shall be established and incorporated 
under the laws of the District of Columbia an independent, private 
nonprofit corporation to be known as ``End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation''.
    (b) Purpose.--The purpose of the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation shall be to work collaboratively with government, civil 
society, and private institutions in partner countries and key 
jurisdictions of other countries with a high prevalence of modern 
slavery to identify and fund successful strategies to combat modern 
slavery.
    (c) Status of Foundation.--The End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation shall not be an agency or establishment of the United States 
Government.
    (d) Status of Board and Officers and Employees.--The members of the 
Board of Directors of the End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation 
shall not, by reason of such membership, be officers or employees of 
the United States, and the officers or employees of the End Modern 
Slavery Initiative Foundation shall not be officers or employees of the 
United States.
    (e) Tax Status Eligibility.--The End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation shall be eligible to be treated as an organization described 
in section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 which is 
exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such code and, if such 
treatment is conferred in accordance with the provisions of such code, 
shall be subject to all provisions of such code relevant to the conduct 
of organizations exempt from taxation.
    (f) Funding.--The End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation shall 
seek to obtain a minimum of $1,500,000,000 in aggregate funding from 
foreign governments and private sector organizations and individuals 
over an initial seven year period, leveraging United States Government 
grants provided to the Foundation as seed funding and to complement the 
comprehensive foreign assistance programs of the United States 
Government.
    (g) Additional Private Sector Funding Plan.--The Board of Directors 
shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, submit to the appropriate congressional committees a plan to raise 
an additional $500,000,000 in commitments from private sector entities 
to fully fund the End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation.
    (h) Authorization for the Receipt of Funds.--The End Modern Slavery 
Initiative Foundation may accept and utilize, consistent with the 
policies, priorities, and purposes of this Act, any gift, donation, 
bequest, or devise of real or personal property from any government or 
private sector individual or organization, including the provision of 
voluntary services or in-kind services or products.
    (i) Governance.--
            (1) Board of directors.--
                    (A) In general.--The End Modern Slavery Initiative 
                Foundation shall be overseen by a Board of Directors--
                            (i) which shall include individuals with 
                        recognized relevant professional expertise and 
                        a survivor of modern slavery; and
                            (ii) not more than 11 of whom will be 
                        voting members.
                    (B) Non-voting advisory directors.--The voting 
                directors of the Board may appoint, at their 
                discretion, non-voting advisory directors, which may 
                include a representative of the Secretary of State such 
                as the Ambassador-at-Large and Director of the Office 
                to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons.
                    (C) Decisions of the board of directors.--Decisions 
                of the Board of Directors shall be made by a simple 
                majority vote of voting directors present.
                    (D) Responsibilities.--In addition to other 
                specific responsibilities provided for in this Act, the 
                voting directors of the Board of Directors shall--
                            (i) oversee the monitoring and evaluation 
                        of the End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation 
                        efforts and supported projects; and
                            (ii) make prioritized program funding 
                        decisions.
                    (E) Quorum of the board of directors.--In order to 
                take official action, the Board shall require a quorum 
                composed of a majority of its voting directors.
                    (F) Additional responsibilities of the board of 
                directors.--The Board of Directors shall--
                            (i) by majority vote of voting directors 
                        delegate relevant authorities to the Chief 
                        Executive Officer appointed pursuant to 
                        paragraph (2)(A) concerning agreements made 
                        with governments or private sector individuals 
                        or organizations, programmatic and monitoring 
                        and evaluation strategies of the End Modern 
                        Slavery Initiative Foundation, and other 
                        matters related to the End Modern Slavery 
                        Initiative Foundation, consistent with the 
                        policies, priorities, and purposes of this Act; 
                        and
                            (ii) reserve the right of review and 
                        approval of major agreements as appropriate.
                    (G) Long-term strategy review, approval, and 
                submission.--Not later than five years after the date 
                of the enactment of this Act, the Board of Directors 
                shall review, approve, and submit to governments, 
                entities, or individuals providing funding to the End 
                Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation, as well as the 
                appropriate congressional committees, the strategy 
                required to be developed pursuant to paragraph (2)(D).
            (2) Chief executive officer.--
                    (A) In general.--The day-to-day operations of the 
                End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation shall be run 
                by a Chief Executive Officer, who shall be a United 
                States citizen and shall be employed at the exclusive 
                discretion of the Board of Directors.
                    (B) Authority of the chief executive officer.--The 
                Chief Executive Officer of the End Modern Slavery 
                Initiative Foundation shall be authorized to take all 
                actions authorized by the Board of Directors, 
                consistent with the policies, priorities, and purposes 
                of this Act, including the hiring and termination of 
                any employees of the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
                Foundation.
                    (C) Responsibilities of the chief executive 
                officer.--The Chief Executive Officer shall be 
                responsible for--
                            (i) ensuring matching funding requirements 
                        pursuant to this Act are met;
                            (ii) ensuring that foreign government and 
                        private sector funding commitments are fully 
                        realized;
                            (iii) developing all necessary strategies 
                        and agreements for the End Modern Slavery 
                        Initiative Foundation;
                            (iv) identifying funding requirements;
                            (v) preparing and presenting to the Board 
                        of Directors for approval a portfolio of 
                        priority projects to be funded;
                            (vi) administering the End Modern Slavery 
                        Initiative Foundation procurement processes;
                            (vii) developing reliable baseline data and 
                        ensuring that such data and the process of 
                        obtaining such data are subject to outside, 
                        independent audits;
                            (viii) developing and administering the 
                        monitoring and evaluation of funded programs;
                            (ix) complying with all relevant auditing, 
                        accounting, taxation, and legal requirements;
                            (x) preparing, publicly publishing, and 
                        submitting to each government, private 
                        individual, or corporation that has contributed 
                        funds an annual report of approximately 50 
                        pages with appropriate annexes on the 
                        activities and results of the End Modern 
                        Slavery Initiative Foundation;
                            (xi) ensuring the sharing, among 
                        appropriate governmental and nongovernmental 
                        partners and interested parties in the global 
                        anti-slavery community, of corporate and 
                        nonprofit best practices, including those 
                        developed or identified by the End Modern 
                        Slavery Initiative Foundation or others through 
                        its supported programs;
                            (xii) working to encourage partner 
                        countries to hold accountable those who enslave 
                        children and adults in the sex trade;
                            (xiii) working to develop best practices to 
                        help ensure that corporate supply chains do not 
                        involve the use of victims of modern slavery, 
                        including ending forced labor and addressing 
                        the role of abusive labor recruitment practices 
                        and fees; and
                            (xiv) undertaking consultations, as the 
                        Chief Executive Officer deems necessary or is 
                        directed by the Board of Directors, with 
                        appropriate governmental and nongovernmental 
                        partners with respect to End Modern Slavery 
                        Initiative Foundation strategies, programs, and 
                        projects.
                    (D) Long-term strategy development and 
                consultations.--Not later than four years after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief Executive 
                Officer, in consultation with the Board of Directors, 
                shall initiate discussions with appropriate 
                governmental and nongovernmental partners and begin 
                development of a strategy that seeks to end modern 
                slavery globally based on empirical evidence and best 
                practices identified by the End Modern Slavery 
                Initiative Foundation, including funding requirements 
                to fully implement such a strategy.
    (j) Limitations and Prohibitions.--
            (1) Issuance of stock and dividends.--The End Modern 
        Slavery Initiative Foundation may not issue any shares of stock 
        or declare or pay dividends.
            (2) Conflicts of interest.--
                    (A) Assets.--No part of the assets of the End 
                Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation shall inure to the 
                benefit of any member of the Board of Directors, any 
                officer or employee of the End Slavery Initiative 
                Foundation, or any other individual, except as 
                reasonable salary or compensation for services for 
                officers and employees, reasonable reimbursement for 
                expenses incurred in the course of such employment, or 
                for other individuals, as specific beneficiaries of 
                services provided pursuant to supported projects.
                    (B) Relationship to grantees.--No voting director 
                of the Board of Directors may be a member of the board 
                of directors or an officer, employee, or consultant to, 
                any grantee of the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
                Foundation.
                    (C) Compensation.--No director of the Board of 
                Directors may receive compensation for service on the 
                Board of Directors, other than reasonable reimbursement 
                for expenses incurred in the course of such service.
            (3) Lobbying restriction.--Any Federal funds provided to 
        the End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation or any other 
        nonprofit organization pursuant to the authorization of funding 
        provided under this Act shall be subject to the restrictions 
        and prohibitions of section 1352 of title 31, United States 
        Code.
    (k) Recordkeeping, Auditing, Oversight, and Reporting 
Requirements.--
            (1) In general.--The End Modern Slavery Initiative 
        Foundation shall be subject to the same auditing, 
        recordkeeping, and reporting obligations as required pursuant 
        to subsections (e), (f), (g), and (i) of section 504 of the 
        National Endowment for Democracy Act (22 U.S.C. 4413).
            (2) Comptroller general audit authority.--
                    (A) In general.--The Comptroller General of the 
                United States may evaluate the financial transactions 
                of the End Slavery Initiative Foundation as well as the 
                programs or activities the End Slavery Initiative 
                Foundation carries out pursuant to this Act.
                    (B) Access to records.--The End Slavery Initiative 
                Foundation shall provide the Comptroller General, or 
                his duly authorized representatives, access to such 
                records as the Comptroller General determines necessary 
                to conduct evaluations authorized by this Act.
    (l) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this Act shall be construed 
to make the End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation an agency or 
establishment of the United States Government or to make the members of 
the Board of Directors of the End Slavery Initiative Foundation, or the 
officers or employees of the End Slavery Initiative, officers or 
employees of the United States.

SEC. 5. AUTHORIZATION FOR GRANTS TO END MODERN SLAVERY.

    (a) Grant Authorization.--The Secretary of State is authorized, 
subject to the availability of appropriations and on an annual basis, 
to make grants of funding for purposes of this Act in the amounts 
authorized in subsection (b) to the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation or other nonprofit organization that--
            (1) funds programs and projects in partner countries and 
        key jurisdictions of other countries in order to seek to end 
        modern slavery, including by funding programs and projects 
        that--
                    (A) contribute to the freeing and sustainable 
                recovery of victims of modern slavery;
                    (B) prevent individuals from being subject to 
                modern slavery; or
                    (C) enforce laws that punish both individuals and 
                corporate entities that engage in modern slavery; and
            (2) seeks to receive foreign government contributions in a 
        ratio of two-to-one and private sector contributions in a ratio 
        of three-to-one to United States Government funding.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations for Fiscal Years 2015 Through 
2022.--In addition to such sums as may otherwise be available for such 
purposes, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
State for the purpose of making the grants authorized under subsection 
(a)--
            (1) for fiscal year 2015, $1,000,000; and
            (2) for each fiscal year from 2016 through 2022, 
        $35,714,285.
    (c) Conditions for United States Government Funding.--
            (1) Matching government funding.--Except as provided under 
        paragraphs (4) and (5), funding provided pursuant to grants 
        authorized under subsection (a) shall only be available for 
        expenditure by the grantee during a fiscal year if matching 
        funding equal to twice the total amount of such funding has 
        been obtained from one or more other governments in such fiscal 
        year.
            (2) Matching private sector funding.--Except as provided 
        under paragraphs (4) and (5), funding provided pursuant to 
        grants authorized under subsection (a) shall only be available 
        for expenditure by the grantee during a fiscal year if matching 
        funding equal to the total amount of such funding has been 
        obtained from private sector entities in such fiscal year.
            (3) Limitation on administrative costs.--Funding provided 
        pursuant to the grants authorized under subsection (a) shall 
        only be available for expenditure by the grantee for a fiscal 
        year in which the prior fiscal year administrative costs are no 
        more than 10 percent of modified total direct costs or 
        otherwise meet the administrative cost requirements of section 
        200.414 of title 2, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (4) Initial exemption.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding the matching 
                funding requirement in paragraphs (1) and (2), funding 
                provided pursuant to grants authorized under subsection 
                (a) shall be available for expenditure by a grantee in 
                fiscal years 2015 and 2016.
                    (B) Additional matching requirement.--To the extent 
                that matching funding is not obtained in fiscal years 
                2015 or 2016, as generally required by paragraphs (1) 
                and (2), the grantee must obtain such funding no later 
                than September 30, 2018.
                    (C) Limitation on funding.--No funding provided 
                pursuant to grants authorized under subsection (a) 
                shall be available for expenditure by the grantee 
                during any fiscal year after 2018 until the requirement 
                in subparagraph (B) is met.
            (5) Additional exemptions.--
                    (A) In general.--If during any fiscal year the 
                matching requirement described in paragraph (1) or (2) 
                is not achieved, the Secretary of State may provide a 
                one-year exemption from fulfillment of such requirement 
                provided that--
                            (i) a plan is in place to make up the 
                        funding shortfall during the next fiscal year 
                        and to meet the matching requirements in future 
                        years;
                            (ii) the plan is submitted to the 
                        appropriate congressional committees; and
                            (iii) the grantee has obtained matching 
                        funding, in the proportion required by such 
                        paragraphs, for the total amount of any prior 
                        year shortfalls.
                    (B) Limitation on funding.--During an exemption 
                provided pursuant to subparagraph (A), funding provided 
                pursuant to grants authorized under subsection (a) 
                shall only be available for expenditure by the grantee 
                during a fiscal year in an amount that is equal in 
                proportion to the proportion of matching funds secured 
                in accordance with paragraphs (1) and (2).
                    (C) Limited quantity.--The Secretary of State may 
                provide no more than a total of two exemptions pursuant 
                to subparagraph (A) during fiscal years 2017 through 
                2022.
            (6) Availability of additional funds.--In fiscal years in 
        which the grantee obtains matching funding to address a 
        shortfall of funding required by paragraph (1) or (2) from a 
        prior year, the funds previously restricted as a result of such 
        shortfall shall be available for expenditure by the grantee in 
        such later fiscal year in an amount that is equal in 
        proportion, pursuant to such paragraphs, to the amount 
        obtained.
            (7) Funding additional to existing authorizations.--Amounts 
        authorized by this section are in addition to funds otherwise 
        authorized to be appropriated for combatting trafficking in 
        persons, forced labor, or related programs.
    (d) Duration of Funding.--Funds appropriated pursuant to subsection 
(b) shall remain available until expended subject to the conditions on 
such funds described in subsection (c).
    (e) Implementation of Policies, Priorities, and Purposes.--No funds 
received pursuant to the provisions of this section may be obligated or 
expended by the Secretary of State or the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation or other nonprofit organization except to the extent that 
such obligation and expenditure is consistent with the policies, 
priorities, and purposes of this Act.

SEC. 6. ADDITIONAL SUPPORT FROM MEMBER GOVERNMENTS.

    (a) In General.--The United States Government shall seek, and shall 
encourage other foreign governments providing support to the End Modern 
Slavery Initiative Foundation, consistent with the individual 
priorities and policies of such governments, to provide additional 
support for projects in partner countries and key jurisdictions of 
other countries supported by the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation through the commitment of new resources, or the redirection 
of existing resources, including funding and personnel as appropriate, 
to efforts that are consistent with the policies, priorities, and 
purposes of this Act, including the provision of economic, development, 
law enforcement, rule of law, and training assistance that is aimed, 
among other things, at strengthening government institutions and 
providing appropriate services to victims of modern slavery.
    (b) Diplomatic Efforts.--The United States Government shall also 
seek, and shall encourage other foreign governments providing support 
to the End Modern Slavery Initiative Foundation, consistent with the 
individual priorities and policies of such governments, to undertake 
diplomatic efforts in partner countries and key jurisdictions of other 
countries with a high prevalence of modern slavery that support the 
policies, priorities, and purposes of this Act and End Modern Slavery 
Initiative supported projects.
    (c) Prioritization of Additional Efforts.--The United States 
Government shall also seek, and shall encourage other foreign 
governments providing support to the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation, consistent with the individual priorities and policies of 
such governments, to undertake efforts to support partner countries and 
key jurisdictions of other countries in their efforts to address the 
areas of key concern highlighted by the Department of State's annual 
Trafficking in Persons Report.

SEC. 7. PRIORITIES AND POLICIES OF THE END MODERN SLAVERY INITIATIVE.

    (a) In General.--The key priorities of the End Modern Slavery 
Initiative shall be--
            (1) to select partner countries and key jurisdictions in 
        other countries;
            (2) to provide support for programs and projects that 
        collectively or individually seek to achieve a measurable and 
        sustainable reduction of modern slavery in targeted populations 
        within partner countries (or jurisdictions thereof) and key 
        jurisdictions of other countries of at least 50 percent in the 
        prevalence of modern slavery over a seven year period and that 
        are based on goals and outcomes that are capable of being 
        empirically measured;
            (3) to prioritize programs and projects consistent with 
        this Act;
            (4) to work with partner countries and entities funded by 
        the End Modern Slavery Initiative to collaboratively establish 
        budgeted national plans that identify and leverage partner 
        country public and private funding and institutions, and 
        leverage current and expected outside assistance, including 
        programs supported by the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
        Foundation; and
            (5) to establish national coordinators and leadership 
        councils in partner countries.
    (b) Selection of Partner Countries.--In selecting partner 
countries, the End Modern Slavery Initiative shall consider and 
prioritize the funding of projects and programs in countries and 
jurisdictions where there is--
            (1) a documented high prevalence of modern slavery within 
        the country as evidenced by assessments in the Department of 
        State's annual Trafficking in Persons Report; and
            (2)(A) a demonstrated political motivation and sustained 
        commitment by government entities of such country to undertake 
        meaningful measures to address severe forms of trafficking in 
        persons, including prevention, protection of victims, and the 
        enactment and enforcement of anti-trafficking laws against 
        perpetrators; or
            (B) a demonstrated presence of an active and independent 
        civil society that can and will support the efforts of the End 
        Modern Slavery Initiative.
    (c) Selection of Key Jurisdictions of Other Countries.--In 
selecting key jurisdictions of other countries, the End Modern Slavery 
Initiative shall consider and prioritize the funding of projects and 
programs in key jurisdictions where there is--
            (1) a documented high prevalence of modern slavery within 
        the jurisdiction as evidenced by assessments in the Department 
        of State's annual Trafficking in Persons Report; and
            (2)(A) a demonstrated political motivation and sustained 
        commitment by government entities of such jurisdiction to 
        undertake meaningful measures to address severe forms of 
        trafficking in persons, including prevention, protection of 
        victims, and the enactment and enforcement of anti-trafficking 
        laws against perpetrators; or
            (B) a demonstrated presence of an active and independent 
        civil society that can and will support the efforts of the End 
        Modern Slavery Initiative.
    (d) Policies for End Modern Slavery Initiative Operations and 
Supported Programs in Partner Countries.--End Modern Slavery Initiative 
programs in partner programs shall include strategies that--
            (1) develop the capacity of national and local government 
        institutions to enforce the law, end impunity of perpetrators, 
        and sustainably deter the crime;
            (2) contribute to the freeing and sustainable recovery of 
        victims of modern slavery, prevent individuals from being 
        subject to modern slavery, or create and enforce laws that 
        punish both individual and corporate perpetrators of modern 
        slavery; and
            (3) set out clear, defined goals and outcomes that are 
        capable of empirical measurement against baseline data.
    (e) Consultation With State Department.--In selecting partner 
countries and key jurisdictions of other countries and funding programs 
in such countries and jurisdictions, the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
should consult with the Department of State, including the Office to 
Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons.
    (f) Interagency Consultation.--In providing the views of the United 
States Government to the End Modern Slavery Initiative pursuant to 
subsection (e), the Department of State, including the Office to 
Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, should consult with the 
United States Department of Justice, the United States Agency for 
International Development, the United States Department of Labor, and 
any other appropriate Federal departments and agencies.

SEC. 8. MONITORING AND EVALUATION OF SUPPORTED PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Board of Directors shall review, on a no less 
than annual basis, specific and detailed criteria for the monitoring 
and evaluation of End Modern Slavery Initiative supported projects.
    (b) Requirements for Criteria.--The criteria required to be 
established pursuant to subsection (a) shall be designed to measure 
progress against baseline data and shall be rigorously designed based 
on international corporate and nongovernmental best practices.
    (c) Supported Project Requirements.--Each supported project shall 
be regularly and rigorously monitored and evaluated, on a not less than 
biennial basis, by an independent monitoring and evaluation entity, 
against the specific and detailed criteria established pursuant to 
subsection (a), and shall have its progress towards its stated goals 
measured by such entity against baseline data.
    (d) Survey Methodology.--The End Modern Slavery Initiative shall 
support the development of a scientifically sound, representative 
survey methodology for measuring prevalence with reference to existing 
research and experience and shall apply the methodology consistently to 
determine the baseline prevalence in target populations and outcomes in 
order to periodically assess progress in reducing prevalence.
    (e) Suspension and Termination of Supported Projects.--The Board of 
Directors shall establish, and revise on a no less than annual basis, 
specific and detailed criteria for the suspension and termination, as 
appropriate, of projects supported by the End Modern Slavery Initiative 
Foundation that regularly or consistently fail to meet the criteria 
required by this section.

SEC. 9. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committees on Foreign Relations and 
                Appropriations of the Senate; and
                    (B) the Committees on Foreign Affairs and 
                Appropriations of the House of Representatives.
            (2) Key jurisdictions of other countries.--The term ``key 
        jurisdictions of other countries'' means specific 
        jurisdictions, located in countries that do not qualify to be 
        partner countries, that have a demonstrated commitment to, and 
        institutions capable of, achieving a significant reduction in 
        the incidence of modern slavery within a period of seven years 
        and have been determined to be appropriate to receive funds by 
        the Board of Directors pursuant to the criteria and priorities 
        set forth in this Act.
            (3) Modern slavery.--The term ``modern slavery'' means--
                    (A) the recruitment, harboring, transportation, 
                provision, or obtaining of a person for the purpose of 
                a commercial sex act in which such commercial sex act 
                is induced by force, fraud, or coercion, or in which 
                the person induced to perform such act has not attained 
                18 years of age; or
                    (B) the recruitment, harboring, transportation, 
                provision, or obtaining of a person for labor or 
                services, through the use of force, fraud, or coercion 
                for the purpose of subjection to involuntary servitude, 
                peonage, debt bondage, or slavery.
            (4) Partner countries.--The term ``partner countries'' 
        means countries that have a demonstrated commitment to, and 
        institutions capable of, achieving a significant reduction in 
        the incidence of modern slavery within a period of seven years 
        and have been determined to be appropriate to receive funds by 
        the Board of Directors pursuant to the criteria and priorities 
        set forth in this Act.
            (5) Terms defined in title 18, united states code.--Terms 
        defined in title 18, United States Code, and not otherwise 
        defined in this section shall have the meaning provided in such 
        title.
                                 <all>
