[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 822 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 822

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         July 13, 2016.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take 
from the Speaker's table the bill (S. 764) to reauthorize and amend the National 
Sea Grant College Program Act, and for other purposes, with the Senate amendment 
to the House amendment thereto, and to consider in the House, without 
intervention of any point of order, a motion offered by the chair of the 
Committee on Agriculture or his designee that the House concur in the Senate 
amendment to the House amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be 
considered as read. The motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided 
and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Agriculture. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion 
to adoption without intervening motion.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (S. 304) to improve motor vehicle safety by encouraging 
the sharing of certain information. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 114-61 shall be considered as adopted. The 
bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment 
thereto, to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of 
debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member 
of the Committee on Energy and Commerce; and (2) one motion to recommit with or 
without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  The requirement of clause 6(a) of rule XIII for a two-thirds vote 
to consider a report from the Committee on Rules on the same day it is presented 
to the House is waived with respect to any resolution reported on the 
legislative day of July 14, 2016, or July 15, 2016.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
