[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2162 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.2162

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
    To establish a 10-year term for the service of the Librarian of 
                                Congress.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Librarian of Congress Succession 
Modernization Act of 2015''.
SEC. 2. APPOINTMENT AND TERM OF SERVICE OF LIBRARIAN OF CONGRESS.
    (a) In General.--The President shall appoint the Librarian of 
Congress, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.
    (b) Term of Service.--The Librarian of Congress shall be appointed 
for a term of 10 years.
    (c) Reappointment.--An individual appointed to the position of 
Librarian of Congress, by and with the advice and consent of the 
Senate, may be reappointed to that position in accordance with 
subsections (a) and (b).
    (d) Effective Date.--This section shall apply with respect to 
appointments made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.
SEC. 3. CONFORMING AMENDMENT.
    The first paragraph under the center heading ``library of 
congress'' under the center heading ``LEGISLATIVE'' of the Act entitled 
``An Act Making appropriations for the legislative, executive, and 
judicial expenses of the Government for the fiscal year ending June 
thirtieth, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, and for other purposes'', 
approved February 19, 1897 (29 Stat. 544, chapter 265; 2 U.S.C. 136), 
is amended by striking ``to be appointed by the President, by and with 
the advice and consent of the Senate,''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
