[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 480 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 480

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      October 21, 2015.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 10) to reauthorize the Scholarships for Opportunity and Results Act, 
and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. 
All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. General debate 
shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on 
Oversight and Government Reform. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The amendments recommended 
by the Committee on Oversight and Government Reform now printed in the bill 
shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as read. All points of order against 
provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No further amendment to the 
bill, as amended, shall be in order except those printed in the report of the 
Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each further amendment may be 
offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered only by a Member 
designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be debatable for 
the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by the proponent 
and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not be subject to 
a demand for division of the question in the House or in the Committee of the 
Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are waived. At the 
conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall rise 
and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such further amendments as 
may have been adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on 
the bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage 
without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with or without 
instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 692) to ensure the payment of interest and principal 
of the debt of the United States. All points of order against consideration of 
the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Ways and 
Means; and (2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
