[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 448 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 448

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 30, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to 
consider in the House the concurrent resolution (H. Con. Res. 79) directing the 
Clerk of the House of Representatives to make corrections in the enrollment of 
H.R. 719. All points of order against consideration of the concurrent resolution 
are waived. The concurrent resolution shall be considered as read. All points of 
order against provisions in the concurrent resolution are waived. The previous 
question shall be considered as ordered on the concurrent resolution to adoption 
without intervening motion or demand for division of the question except 20 
minutes of debate equally divided and controlled by the Majority Leader and the 
Minority Leader or their respective designees.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to take from 
the Speaker's table the bill (H.R. 719) to require the Transportation Security 
Administration to conform to existing Federal law and regulations regarding 
criminal investigator positions, and for other purposes, with the Senate 
amendment to the House amendment to the Senate amendment thereto, and to 
consider in the House, without intervention of any point of order, a motion 
offered by the chair of the Committee on Appropriations or his designee that the 
House concur in the Senate amendment to the House amendment to the Senate 
amendment. The Senate amendment and the motion shall be considered as read. The 
motion shall be debatable for one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Appropriations. The 
previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to adoption 
without intervening motion.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
