[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 1359 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        S.1359

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
 To allow manufacturers to meet warranty and labeling requirements for 
  consumer products by displaying the terms of warranties on Internet 
                    websites, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``E-Warranty Act of 2015''.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
    Congress makes the following findings:
        (1) Many manufacturers and consumers prefer to have the option 
    to provide or receive warranty information online.
        (2) Modernizing warranty notification rules is necessary to 
    allow the United States to continue to compete globally in 
    manufacturing, trade, and the development of consumer products 
    connected to the Internet.
        (3) Allowing an electronic warranty option would expand 
    consumer access to relevant consumer information in an 
    environmentally friendly way, and would provide additional 
    flexibility to manufacturers to meet their labeling and warranty 
    requirements.
SEC. 3. ELECTRONIC DISPLAY OF TERMS OF WRITTEN WARRANTY FOR CONSUMER 
PRODUCTS.
    (a) In General.--Section 102(b) of the Magnuson-Moss Warranty--
Federal Trade Commission Improvement Act (15 U.S.C. 2302(b)) is amended 
by adding at the end the following:
    ``(4)(A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the rules 
prescribed under this subsection shall allow for the satisfaction of 
all requirements concerning the availability of terms of a written 
warranty on a consumer product under this subsection by--
        ``(i) making available such terms in an accessible digital 
    format on the Internet website of the manufacturer of the consumer 
    product in a clear and conspicuous manner; and
        ``(ii) providing to the consumer (or prospective consumer) 
    information with respect to how to obtain and review such terms by 
    indicating on the product or product packaging or in the product 
    manual--
            ``(I) the Internet website of the manufacturer where such 
        terms can be obtained and reviewed; and
            ``(II) the phone number of the manufacturer, the postal 
        mailing address of the manufacturer, or another reasonable non-
        Internet based means of contacting the manufacturer to obtain 
        and review such terms.
    ``(B) With respect to any requirement that the terms of any written 
warranty for a consumer product be made available to the consumer (or 
prospective consumer) prior to sale of the product, in a case in which 
a consumer product is offered for sale in a retail location, by 
catalog, or through door-to-door sales, subparagraph (A) shall only 
apply if the seller makes available, through electronic or other means, 
at the location of the sale to the consumer purchasing the consumer 
product the terms of the warranty for the consumer product before the 
purchase.''.
    (b) Revision of Rules.--
        (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
    enactment of this Act, the Federal Trade Commission shall revise 
    the rules prescribed under such section to comply with the 
    requirements of paragraph (4) of such section, as added by 
    subsection (a) of this section.
        (2) Authority to waive requirement for oral presentation.--In 
    revising rules under paragraph (1), the Federal Trade Commission 
    may waive the requirement of section 109(a) of such Act (15 U.S.C. 
    2309(a)) to give interested persons an opportunity for oral 
    presentation if the Commission determines that giving interested 
    persons such opportunity would interfere with the ability of the 
    Commission to revise rules under paragraph (1) in a timely manner.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
