[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 433 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.433

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
           the fourth day of January, two thousand and sixteen


                                 An Act


 
To designate the facility of the United States Postal Service located at 
523 East Railroad Street in Knox, Pennsylvania, as the ``Specialist Ross 
                   A. McGinnis Memorial Post Office''.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. FINDINGS.
    Congress finds the following:
        (1) Ross Andrew McGinnis was born and raised in Knox, 
    Pennsylvania, the son of Tom and Romayne McGinnis.
        (2) Specialist McGinnis joined the Army in 2004 and following 
    his training, was assigned to 1st Platoon, C Company, 1st 
    Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment, 2nd Brigade Combat Team, 1st 
    Infantry Division.
        (3) On December 4, 2006, McGinnis was killed in action while 
    serving in Iraq. For his actions that day, he was awarded the 
    Congressional Medal of Honor by President George W. Bush on June 2, 
    2008.
        (4) From the official Medal of Honor Army Citation:
            (A) Private First Class Ross A. McGinnis, United States 
        Army. For conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity at the risk of 
        his life above and beyond the call of duty.
            (B) Private First Class Ross A. McGinnis distinguished 
        himself by acts of gallantry and intrepidity above and beyond 
        the call of duty while serving as an M2 .50-caliber Machine 
        Gunner, 1st Platoon, C Company, 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry 
        Regiment, in connection with combat operations against an armed 
        enemy in Adhamiyah, Northeast Baghdad, Iraq, on 4 December 
        2006.
            (C) That afternoon his platoon was conducting combat 
        control operations in an effort to reduce and control sectarian 
        violence in the area. While Private McGinnis was manning the M2 
        .50-caliber Machine Gun, a fragmentation grenade thrown by an 
        insurgent fell through the gunner's hatch into the vehicle. 
        Reacting quickly, he yelled ``grenade,'' allowing all four 
        members of his crew to prepare for the grenade's blast. Then, 
        rather than leaping from the gunner's hatch to safety, Private 
        McGinnis made the courageous decision to protect his crew. In a 
        selfless act of bravery, in which he was mortally wounded, 
        Private McGinnis covered the live grenade, pinning it between 
        his body and the vehicle and absorbing most of the explosion.
            (D) Private McGinnis' gallant action directly saved four 
        men from certain serious injury or death. Private First Class 
        McGinnis' extraordinary heroism and selflessness at the cost of 
        his own life, above and beyond the call of duty, are in keeping 
        with the highest traditions of the military service and reflect 
        great credit upon himself, his unit, and the United States 
        Army.
SEC. 2. SPECIALIST ROSS A. MCGINNIS MEMORIAL POST OFFICE.
    (a) Designation.--The facility of the United States Postal Service 
located at 523 East Railroad Street in Knox, Pennsylvania, shall be 
known and designated as the ``Specialist Ross A. McGinnis Memorial Post 
Office''.
    (b) References.--Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, 
paper, or other record of the United States to the facility referred to 
in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the ``Specialist 
Ross A. McGinnis Memorial Post Office''.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
