[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 78 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 78

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                      February 4, 2015.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 527) to amend chapter 6 of title 5, United States Code (commonly 
known as the Regulatory Flexibility Act), to ensure complete analysis of 
potential impacts on small entities of rules, and for other purposes. The first 
reading of the bill shall be dispensed with. All points of order against 
consideration of the bill are waived. General debate shall be confined to the 
bill and shall not exceed one hour, with 40 minutes equally divided and 
controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on the 
Judiciary and 20 minutes equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking 
minority member of the Committee on Small Business. After general debate the 
bill shall be considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. It shall be 
in order to consider as an original bill for the purpose of amendment under the 
five-minute rule an amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of the 
text of Rules Committee Print 114-3. That amendment in the nature of a 
substitute shall be considered as read. All points of order against that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute are waived. No amendment to that 
amendment in the nature of a substitute shall be in order except those printed 
in part A of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. 
Each such amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may 
be offered only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as 
read, shall be debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided 
and controlled by the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to 
amendment, and shall not be subject to a demand for division of the question in 
the House or in the Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such 
amendments are waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for 
amendment the Committee shall rise and report the bill to the House with such 
amendments as may have been adopted. Any Member may demand a separate vote in 
the House on any amendment adopted in the Committee of the Whole to the bill or 
to the amendment in the nature of a substitute made in order as original text. 
The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and amendments 
thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to 
recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  At any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker may, 
pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 50) to provide for additional safeguards with respect to imposing 
Federal mandates, and for other purposes. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and amendments specified in 
this section and shall not exceed one hour equally divided and controlled by the 
chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Oversight and Government 
Reform. After general debate the bill shall be considered for amendment under 
the five-minute rule. An amendment in the nature of a substitute consisting of 
the text of Rules Committee Print 114-4, modified by the amendment printed in 
part B of the report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution, 
shall be considered as adopted in the House and in the Committee of the Whole. 
The bill, as amended, shall be considered as the original bill for the purpose 
of further amendment under the five-minute rule and shall be considered as read. 
All points of order against provisions in the bill, as amended, are waived. No 
further amendment to the bill, as amended, shall be in order except those 
printed in part C of the report of the Committee on Rules. Each such further 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such further amendments are 
waived. At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the 
Committee shall rise and report the bill, as amended, to the House with such 
further amendments as may have been adopted. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill, as amended, and any further amendment thereto 
to final passage without intervening motion except one motion to recommit with 
or without instructions.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
