[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 253 Engrossed Amendment House (EAH)]

<DOC>
                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 27, 2016.
    Resolved, That the bill from the Senate (S. 253) entitled ``An Act 
to amend the Communications Act of 1934 to consolidate the reporting 
obligations of the Federal Communications Commission in order to 
improve congressional oversight and reduce reporting burdens.'', do 
pass with the following

                              AMENDMENTS:

            Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Communications Act 
Update Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Commission defined.

       TITLE I--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION PROCESS REFORM

Sec. 101. Federal Communications Commission process reform.
Sec. 102. Categorization of TCPA inquiries and complaints in quarterly 
                            report.
Sec. 103. Effect on other laws.
Sec. 104. Application of Antideficiency Act to Universal Service 
                            Program.
Sec. 105. Report on improving small business participation in FCC 
                            proceedings.
Sec. 106. Timely availability of items adopted by vote of the 
                            Commission.

   TITLE II--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION CONSOLIDATED REPORTING

Sec. 201. Communications marketplace report.
Sec. 202. Consolidation of redundant reports; conforming amendments.
Sec. 203. Effect on authority.
Sec. 204. Other reports.

             TITLE III--SMALL BUSINESS BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT

Sec. 301. Exception to enhancement to transparency requirements for 
                            small businesses.

                          TITLE IV--KARI'S LAW

Sec. 401. Short title.
Sec. 402. Configuration of multi-line telephone systems for direct 
                            dialing of 9-1-1.

           TITLE V--SECURING ACCESS TO NETWORKS IN DISASTERS

Sec. 501. Study on network resiliency.
Sec. 502. Access to essential service providers during federally 
                            declared emergencies.
Sec. 503. Definitions.

                     TITLE VI--SPOOFING PREVENTION

Sec. 601. Spoofing prevention.

                    TITLE VII--AMATEUR RADIO PARITY

Sec. 701. Findings.
Sec. 702. Application of private land use restrictions to amateur 
                            stations.
Sec. 703. Affirmation of limited preemption of State and local land use 
                            regulation.
Sec. 704. Definitions.

        TITLE VIII--IMPROVING RURAL CALL QUALITY AND RELIABILITY

Sec. 801. Ensuring the integrity of voice communications.

SEC. 2. COMMISSION DEFINED.

    In this Act, the term ``Commission'' means the Federal 
Communications Commission.

       TITLE I--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION PROCESS REFORM

SEC. 101. FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION PROCESS REFORM.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
U.S.C. 151 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 13. TRANSPARENCY AND EFFICIENCY.

    ``(a) Initial Rulemaking and Inquiry.--
            ``(1) Rulemaking.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this section, the Commission shall complete a 
        rulemaking proceeding and adopt procedural changes to its rules 
        to maximize opportunities for public participation and 
        efficient decisionmaking.
            ``(2) Requirements for rulemaking.--The rules adopted under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    ``(A) set minimum comment periods for comment and 
                reply comment, subject to a determination by the 
                Commission that good cause exists for departing from 
                such minimum comment periods, for--
                            ``(i) significant regulatory actions, as 
                        defined in Executive Order No. 12866; and
                            ``(ii) all other rulemaking proceedings;
                    ``(B) establish policies concerning the submission 
                of extensive new comments, data, or reports towards the 
                end of the comment period;
                    ``(C) establish policies regarding treatment of 
                comments, ex parte communications, and data or reports 
                (including statistical reports and reports to Congress) 
                submitted after the comment period to ensure that the 
                public has adequate notice of and opportunity to 
                respond to such submissions before the Commission 
                relies on such submissions in any order, decision, 
                report, or action;
                    ``(D) establish procedures for, not later than 14 
                days after the end of each quarter of a calendar year 
                (or more frequently, as the Commission considers 
                appropriate), publishing on the Internet website of the 
                Commission and submitting to Congress a report that 
                contains--
                            ``(i) the status of open rulemaking 
                        proceedings and proposed orders, decisions, 
                        reports, or actions on circulation for review 
                        by the Commissioners, including which 
                        Commissioners have not cast a vote on an order, 
                        decision, report, or action that has been on 
                        circulation for more than 60 days;
                            ``(ii) for the petitions, applications, 
                        complaints, and other requests for action by 
                        the Commission that were pending at the 
                        Commission on the last day of such quarter (or 
                        more frequent period, as the case may be)--
                                    ``(I) the number of such requests, 
                                broken down by the bureau primarily 
                                responsible for action and, for each 
                                bureau, the type of request (such as a 
                                petition, application, or complaint); 
                                and
                                    ``(II) information regarding the 
                                amount of time for which such requests 
                                have been pending, broken down as 
                                described in subclause (I); and
                            ``(iii) a list of the congressional 
                        investigations of the Commission that were 
                        pending on the last day of such quarter (or 
                        more frequent period, as the case may be) and 
                        the cost of such investigations, individually 
                        and in the aggregate;
                    ``(E) establish deadlines (relative to the date of 
                filing) for--
                            ``(i) in the case of a petition for a 
                        declaratory ruling under section 1.2 of title 
                        47, Code of Federal Regulations, issuing a 
                        public notice of such petition;
                            ``(ii) in the case of a petition for 
                        rulemaking under section 1.401 of such title, 
                        issuing a public notice of such petition; and
                            ``(iii) in the case of a petition for 
                        reconsideration under section 1.106 or 1.429 of 
                        such title or an application for review under 
                        section 1.115 of such title, issuing a public 
                        notice of a decision on the petition or 
                        application by the Commission or under 
                        delegated authority (as the case may be);
                    ``(F) establish guidelines (relative to the date of 
                filing) for the disposition of petitions filed under 
                section 1.2 of such title;
                    ``(G) establish procedures for the inclusion of the 
                specific language of the proposed rule or the proposed 
                amendment of an existing rule in a notice of proposed 
                rulemaking; and
                    ``(H) require notices of proposed rulemaking and 
                orders adopting a rule or amending an existing rule 
                that--
                            ``(i) create (or propose to create) a 
                        program activity to contain performance 
                        measures for evaluating the effectiveness of 
                        the program activity; and
                            ``(ii) substantially change (or propose to 
                        substantially change) a program activity to 
                        contain--
                                    ``(I) performance measures for 
                                evaluating the effectiveness of the 
                                program activity as changed (or 
                                proposed to be changed); or
                                    ``(II) a finding that existing 
                                performance measures will effectively 
                                evaluate the program activity as 
                                changed (or proposed to be changed).
            ``(3) Inquiry.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
        enactment of this section, the Commission shall complete an 
        inquiry to seek public comment on whether and how the 
        Commission should--
                    ``(A) establish procedures for allowing a 
                bipartisan majority of Commissioners to place an order, 
                decision, report, or action on the agenda of an open 
                meeting;
                    ``(B) establish procedures for informing all 
                Commissioners of a reasonable number of options 
                available to the Commission for resolving a petition, 
                complaint, application, rulemaking, or other 
                proceeding;
                    ``(C) establish procedures for ensuring that all 
                Commissioners have adequate time, prior to being 
                required to decide a petition, complaint, application, 
                rulemaking, or other proceeding (including at a meeting 
                held pursuant to section 5(d)), to review the proposed 
                Commission decision document, including the specific 
                language of any proposed rule or any proposed amendment 
                of an existing rule;
                    ``(D) establish procedures for publishing the text 
                of agenda items to be voted on at an open meeting in 
                advance of such meeting so that the public has the 
                opportunity to read the text before a vote is taken;
                    ``(E) establish deadlines (relative to the date of 
                filing) for disposition of applications for a license 
                under section 1.913 of title 47, Code of Federal 
                Regulations;
                    ``(F) assign resources needed in order to meet the 
                deadlines described in subparagraph (E), including 
                whether the Commission's ability to meet such deadlines 
                would be enhanced by assessing a fee from applicants 
                for such a license; and
                    ``(G) except as otherwise provided in section 4(p), 
                publish each order, decision, report, or action not 
                later than 30 days after the date of the adoption of 
                such order, decision, report, or action.
            ``(4) Data for performance measures.--The Commission shall 
        develop a performance measure or proposed performance measure 
        required by this subsection to rely, where possible, on data 
        already collected by the Commission.
            ``(5) GAO audit.--Not less frequently than every 6 months, 
        the Comptroller General of the United States shall audit the 
        cost estimates provided by the Commission under paragraph 
        (2)(D)(iii) during the preceding 6-month period.
    ``(b) Periodic Review.--On the date that is 5 years after the 
completion of the rulemaking proceeding under subsection (a)(1), and 
every 5 years thereafter, the Commission shall initiate a new 
rulemaking proceeding to continue to consider such procedural changes 
to its rules as may be in the public interest to maximize opportunities 
for public participation and efficient decisionmaking.
    ``(c) Nonpublic Collaborative Discussions.--
            ``(1) In general.--Notwithstanding section 552b of title 5, 
        United States Code, a bipartisan majority of Commissioners may 
        hold a meeting that is closed to the public to discuss official 
        business if--
                    ``(A) a vote or any other agency action is not 
                taken at such meeting;
                    ``(B) each person present at such meeting is a 
                Commissioner, an employee of the Commission, a member 
                of a joint board or conference established under 
                section 410, or a person on the staff of such a joint 
                board or conference or of a member of such a joint 
                board or conference; and
                    ``(C) an attorney from the Office of General 
                Counsel of the Commission is present at such meeting.
            ``(2) Disclosure of nonpublic collaborative discussions.--
        Not later than 2 business days after the conclusion of a 
        meeting held under paragraph (1), the Commission shall publish 
        a disclosure of such meeting, including--
                    ``(A) a list of the persons who attended such 
                meeting; and
                    ``(B) a summary of the matters discussed at such 
                meeting, except for such matters as the Commission 
                determines may be withheld under section 552b(c) of 
                title 5, United States Code.
            ``(3) Preservation of open meetings requirements for agency 
        action.--Nothing in this subsection shall limit the 
        applicability of section 552b of title 5, United States Code, 
        with respect to a meeting of Commissioners other than that 
        described in paragraph (1).
    ``(d) Access to Certain Information on Commission's Website.--The 
Commission shall provide direct access from the homepage of its website 
to--
            ``(1) detailed information regarding--
                    ``(A) the budget of the Commission for the current 
                fiscal year;
                    ``(B) the appropriations for the Commission for 
                such fiscal year; and
                    ``(C) the total number of full-time equivalent 
                employees of the Commission; and
            ``(2) the performance plan most recently made available by 
        the Commission under section 1115(b) of title 31, United States 
        Code.
    ``(e) Internet Publication of Certain FCC Policies and 
Procedures.--The chairman of the Commission shall--
            ``(1) publish on the Internet website of the Commission any 
        policies or procedures of the Commission that--
                    ``(A) are established by the chairman; and
                    ``(B) relate to the functioning of the Commission 
                or the handling of the agenda of the Commission; and
            ``(2) update such publication not later than 48 hours after 
        the chairman makes changes to any such policies or procedures.
    ``(f) Federal Register Publication.--
            ``(1) In general.--In the case of any document adopted by 
        the Commission that the Commission is required, under any 
        provision of law, to publish in the Federal Register, the 
        Commission shall, not later than the date described in 
        paragraph (2), complete all Commission actions necessary for 
        such document to be so published.
            ``(2) Date described.--The date described in this paragraph 
        is the earlier of--
                    ``(A) the day that is 45 days after the date of the 
                release of the document; or
                    ``(B) the day by which such actions must be 
                completed to comply with any deadline under any other 
                provision of law.
            ``(3) No effect on deadlines for publication in other 
        form.--In the case of a deadline that does not specify that the 
        form of publication is publication in the Federal Register, the 
        Commission may comply with such deadline by publishing the 
        document in another form. Such other form of publication does 
        not relieve the Commission of any Federal Register publication 
        requirement applicable to such document, including the 
        requirement of paragraph (1).
    ``(g) Consumer Complaint Database.--
            ``(1) In general.--In evaluating and processing consumer 
        complaints, the Commission shall present information about such 
        complaints in a publicly available, searchable database on its 
        website that--
                    ``(A) facilitates easy use by consumers; and
                    ``(B) to the extent practicable, is sortable and 
                accessible by--
                            ``(i) the date of the filing of the 
                        complaint;
                            ``(ii) the topic of the complaint;
                            ``(iii) the party complained of; and
                            ``(iv) other elements that the Commission 
                        considers in the public interest.
            ``(2) Duplicative complaints.--In the case of multiple 
        complaints arising from the same alleged misconduct, the 
        Commission shall be required to include only information 
        concerning one such complaint in the database described in 
        paragraph (1).
    ``(h) Form of Publication.--
            ``(1) In general.--In complying with a requirement of this 
        section to publish a document, the Commission shall publish 
        such document on its website, in addition to publishing such 
        document in any other form that the Commission is required to 
        use or is permitted to and chooses to use.
            ``(2) Exception.--The Commission shall by rule establish 
        procedures for redacting documents required to be published by 
        this section so that the published versions of such documents 
        do not contain--
                    ``(A) information the publication of which would be 
                detrimental to national security, homeland security, 
                law enforcement, or public safety; or
                    ``(B) information that is proprietary or 
                confidential.
    ``(i) Transparency Relating to Performance in Meeting FOIA 
Requirements.--The Commission shall take additional steps to inform the 
public about its performance and efficiency in meeting the disclosure 
and other requirements of section 552 of title 5, United States Code 
(commonly referred to as the Freedom of Information Act), including by 
doing the following:
            ``(1) Publishing on the Commission's website the 
        Commission's logs for tracking, responding to, and managing 
        requests submitted under such section, including the 
        Commission's fee estimates, fee categories, and fee request 
        determinations.
            ``(2) Releasing to the public all decisions made by the 
        Commission (including decisions made by the Commission's 
        Bureaus and Offices) granting or denying requests filed under 
        such section, including any such decisions pertaining to the 
        estimate and application of fees assessed under such section.
            ``(3) Publishing on the Commission's website electronic 
        copies of documents released under such section.
            ``(4) Presenting information about the Commission's 
        handling of requests under such section in the Commission's 
        annual budget estimates submitted to Congress and the 
        Commission's annual performance and financial reports. Such 
        information shall include the number of requests under such 
        section the Commission received in the most recent fiscal year, 
        the number of such requests granted and denied, a comparison of 
        the Commission's processing of such requests over at least the 
        previous 3 fiscal years, and a comparison of the Commission's 
        results with the most recent average for the United States 
        Government as published on www.foia.gov.
    ``(j) Prompt Release of Statistical Reports and Reports to 
Congress.--Not later than January 15th of each year, the Commission 
shall identify, catalog, and publish an anticipated release schedule 
for all statistical reports and reports to Congress that are regularly 
or intermittently released by the Commission and will be released 
during such year.
    ``(k) Annual Scorecard Reports.--
            ``(1) In general.--For the 1-year period beginning on 
        January 1st of each year, the Commission shall prepare a report 
        on the performance of the Commission in conducting its 
        proceedings and meeting the deadlines established under 
        subsection (a)(2)(E) and the guidelines established under 
        subsection (a)(2)(F).
            ``(2) Contents.--Each report required by paragraph (1) 
        shall contain detailed statistics on such performance, 
        including, with respect to each Bureau of the Commission--
                    ``(A) with respect to each type of filing specified 
                in subsection (a)(2)(E) or (a)(2)(F)--
                            ``(i) the number of filings that were 
                        pending on the last day of the period covered 
                        by such report;
                            ``(ii) the number of filings described in 
                        clause (i) for which each applicable deadline 
                        or guideline established under such subsection 
                        was not met and the average length of time such 
                        filings have been pending; and
                            ``(iii) for filings that were resolved 
                        during such period, the average time between 
                        initiation and resolution and the percentage 
                        for which each applicable deadline or guideline 
                        established under such subsection was met;
                    ``(B) with respect to proceedings before an 
                administrative law judge--
                            ``(i) the number of such proceedings 
                        completed during such period; and
                            ``(ii) the number of such proceedings 
                        pending on the last day of such period; and
                    ``(C) the number of independent studies or analyses 
                published by the Commission during such period.
            ``(3) Publication and submission.--The Commission shall 
        publish and submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of 
        the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, 
        Science, and Transportation of the Senate each report required 
        by paragraph (1) not later than the date that is 30 days after 
        the last day of the period covered by such report.
    ``(l) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Amendment.--The term `amendment' includes, when used 
        with respect to an existing rule, the deletion of such rule.
            ``(2) Bipartisan majority.--The term `bipartisan majority' 
        means, when used with respect to a group of Commissioners, that 
        such group--
                    ``(A) is a group of three or more Commissioners; 
                and
                    ``(B) includes, for each political party of which 
                any Commissioner is a member, at least one Commissioner 
                who is a member of such political party, and, if any 
                Commissioner has no political party affiliation, at 
                least one unaffiliated Commissioner.
            ``(3) Performance measure.--The term `performance measure' 
        means an objective and quantifiable outcome measure or output 
        measure (as such terms are defined in section 1115 of title 31, 
        United States Code).
            ``(4) Program activity.--The term `program activity' has 
        the meaning given such term in section 1115 of title 31, United 
        States Code, except that such term also includes any annual 
        collection or distribution or related series of collections or 
        distributions by the Commission of an amount that is greater 
        than or equal to $100,000,000.
            ``(5) Other definitions.--The terms `agency action', `ex 
        parte communication', and `rule' have the meanings given such 
        terms in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.''.
    (b) Effective Dates and Implementing Rules.--
            (1) Effective dates.--
                    (A) Nonpublic collaborative discussions.--
                Subsection (c) of section 13 of the Communications Act 
                of 1934, as added by subsection (a), shall apply 
                beginning on the first date on which all of the 
                procedural changes to the rules of the Commission 
                required by subsection (a)(1) of such section have 
                taken effect.
                    (B) Report release schedules.--Subsection (j) of 
                such section 13 shall apply with respect to 2017 and 
                any year thereafter.
                    (C) Annual scorecard reports.--Subsection (k) of 
                such section 13 shall apply with respect to 2016 and 
                any year thereafter.
                    (D) Internet publication of certain fcc policies 
                and procedures.--Subsection (e) of such section 13 
                shall apply beginning on the date that is 30 days after 
                the date of the enactment of this Act.
            (2) Rules.--Except as otherwise provided in such section 
        13, the Commission shall promulgate any rules necessary to 
        carry out such section not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 102. CATEGORIZATION OF TCPA INQUIRIES AND COMPLAINTS IN QUARTERLY 
              REPORT.

    In compiling its quarterly report with respect to informal consumer 
inquiries and complaints, the Commission may not categorize an inquiry 
or complaint with respect to section 227 of the Communications Act of 
1934 (47 U.S.C. 227) as being a wireline inquiry or complaint or a 
wireless inquiry or complaint unless the party whose conduct is the 
subject of the inquiry or complaint is a wireline carrier or a wireless 
carrier, respectively.

SEC. 103. EFFECT ON OTHER LAWS.

    Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title shall 
relieve the Commission from any obligations under title 5, United 
States Code, except where otherwise expressly provided.

SEC. 104. APPLICATION OF ANTIDEFICIENCY ACT TO UNIVERSAL SERVICE 
              PROGRAM.

    Section 302 of Public Law 108-494 (118 Stat. 3998) is amended by 
striking ``December 31, 2017'' each place it appears and inserting 
``December 31, 2020''.

SEC. 105. REPORT ON IMPROVING SMALL BUSINESS PARTICIPATION IN FCC 
              PROCEEDINGS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Commission, in consultation with the Administrator of the Small 
Business Administration, shall submit to Congress a report on--
            (1) actions that the Commission will take to improve the 
        participation of small businesses in the proceedings of the 
        Commission; and
            (2) recommendations for any legislation that the Commission 
        considers appropriate to improve such participation.

SEC. 106. TIMELY AVAILABILITY OF ITEMS ADOPTED BY VOTE OF THE 
              COMMISSION.

    (a) Amendment.--Section 4 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
U.S.C. 154) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(p) In the case of any item that is adopted by vote of the 
Commission, the Commission shall publish on the Internet website of the 
Commission the text of such item not later than 24 hours after the 
Secretary of the Commission has received dissenting statements from all 
Commissioners wishing to submit such a statement with respect to such 
item.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by this section shall apply 
with respect to an item that is adopted after the date that is 30 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act.

   TITLE II--FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION CONSOLIDATED REPORTING

SEC. 201. COMMUNICATIONS MARKETPLACE REPORT.

    Title I of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.), 
as amended by section 101(a), is further amended by adding at the end 
the following:

``SEC. 14. COMMUNICATIONS MARKETPLACE REPORT.

    ``(a) In General.--In the last quarter of every even-numbered year, 
the Commission shall publish on its website and submit to the Committee 
on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a 
report on the state of the communications marketplace.
    ``(b) Contents.--Each report required by subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) assess the state of competition in the communications 
        marketplace, including competition to deliver voice, video, 
        audio, and data services among providers of telecommunications, 
        providers of commercial mobile service (as defined in section 
        332), multichannel video programming distributors (as defined 
        in section 602), broadcast stations, providers of satellite 
        communications, Internet service providers, and other providers 
        of communications services;
            ``(2) assess the state of deployment of communications 
        capabilities, including advanced telecommunications capability 
        (as defined in section 706 of the Telecommunications Act of 
        1996 (47 U.S.C. 1302)), regardless of the technology used for 
        such deployment, including whether advanced telecommunications 
        capability is being deployed to all Americans in a reasonable 
        and timely fashion;
            ``(3) assess whether laws, regulations, or regulatory 
        practices (whether those of the Federal Government, States, 
        political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes or tribal 
        organizations (as such terms are defined in section 4 of the 
        Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
        U.S.C. 5304)), or foreign governments) pose a barrier to 
        competitive entry into the communications marketplace or to the 
        competitive expansion of existing providers of communications 
        services;
            ``(4) describe the agenda of the Commission for the next 2-
        year period for addressing the challenges and opportunities in 
        the communications marketplace that were identified through the 
        assessments under paragraphs (1) through (3); and
            ``(5) describe the actions that the Commission has taken in 
        pursuit of the agenda described pursuant to paragraph (4) in 
        the previous report submitted under this section.
    ``(c) Extension.--If the President designates a Commissioner as 
Chairman of the Commission during the last quarter of an even-numbered 
year, the portion of the report required by subsection (b)(4) may be 
published on the website of the Commission and submitted to the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate as 
an addendum during the first quarter of the following odd-numbered 
year.
    ``(d) Special Requirements.--
            ``(1) Assessing competition.--In assessing the state of 
        competition under subsection (b)(1), the Commission shall 
        consider all forms of competition, including the effect of 
        intermodal competition, facilities-based competition, and 
        competition from new and emergent communications services, 
        including the provision of content and communications using the 
        Internet.
            ``(2) Assessing deployment.--In assessing the state of 
        deployment under subsection (b)(2), the Commission shall 
        compile a list of geographical areas that are not served by any 
        provider of advanced telecommunications capability.
            ``(3) International comparisons and demographic 
        information.--The Commission may use readily available data to 
        draw appropriate comparisons between the United States 
        communications marketplace and the international communications 
        marketplace and to correlate its assessments with demographic 
        information.
            ``(4) Considering small businesses.--In assessing the state 
        of competition under subsection (b)(1) and regulatory barriers 
        under subsection (b)(3), the Commission shall consider market 
        entry barriers for entrepreneurs and other small businesses in 
        the communications marketplace in accordance with the national 
        policy under section 257(b).
            ``(5) Considering cable rates.--In assessing the state of 
        competition under subsection (b)(1), the Commission shall 
        include in each report required by subsection (a) the aggregate 
        average total amount paid by cable systems in compensation 
        under section 325 during the period covered by such report.''.

SEC. 202. CONSOLIDATION OF REDUNDANT REPORTS; CONFORMING AMENDMENTS.

    (a) ORBIT Act Report.--Section 646 of the Communications Satellite 
Act of 1962 (47 U.S.C. 765e; 114 Stat. 57) is repealed.
    (b) Satellite Competition Report.--Section 4 of Public Law 109-34 
(47 U.S.C. 703) is repealed.
    (c) International Broadband Data Report.--Section 103 of the 
Broadband Data Improvement Act (47 U.S.C. 1303) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (b); and
            (2) by redesignating subsections (c) through (e) as 
        subsections (b) through (d), respectively.
    (d) Status of Competition in the Market for the Delivery of Video 
Programming Report.--Section 628 of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
U.S.C. 548) is amended--
            (1) by striking subsection (g);
            (2) by redesignating subsection (j) as subsection (g); and
            (3) by transferring subsection (g) (as redesignated) so 
        that it appears after subsection (f).
    (e) Report on Cable Industry Prices.--
            (1) In general.--Section 623 of the Communications Act of 
        1934 (47 U.S.C. 543) is amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (k); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (l) through (o) as 
                subsections (k) through (n), respectively.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 613(a)(3) of the 
        Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 533(a)(3)) is amended by 
        striking ``623(l)'' and inserting ``623(k)''.
    (f) Triennial Report Identifying and Eliminating Market Entry 
Barriers for Entrepreneurs and Other Small Businesses.--Section 257 of 
the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 257) is amended by striking 
subsection (c).
    (g) Section 706 Report.--Section 706 of the Telecommunications Act 
of 1996 (47 U.S.C. 1302) is amended--
            (1) by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:
    ``(b) Determination.--If the Commission determines in its report 
under section 14 of the Communications Act of 1934, after considering 
the availability of advanced telecommunications capability to all 
Americans (including, in particular, elementary and secondary schools 
and classrooms), that advanced telecommunications capability is not 
being deployed to all Americans in a reasonable and timely fashion, the 
Commission shall take immediate action to accelerate deployment of such 
capability by removing barriers to infrastructure investment and by 
promoting competition in the telecommunications market.'';
            (2) by striking subsection (c);
            (3) in subsection (d), by striking ``this subsection'' and 
        inserting ``this section''; and
            (4) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (c).
    (h) State of Competitive Market Conditions With Respect to 
Commercial Mobile Radio Services.--Section 332(c)(1)(C) of the 
Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 332(c)(1)(C)) is amended by 
striking the first and second sentences.
    (i) Previously Eliminated Annual Report.--
            (1) In general.--Section 4 of the Communications Act of 
        1934 (47 U.S.C. 154), as amended by section 106(a), is further 
        amended--
                    (A) by striking subsection (k); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsections (l) through (p) as 
                subsections (k) through (o), respectively.
            (2) Conforming amendments.--The Communications Act of 1934 
        (47 U.S.C. 151 et seq.) is amended--
                    (A) in section 9(i), by striking ``In the 
                Commission's annual report, the Commission shall 
                prepare an analysis of its progress in developing such 
                systems and'' and inserting ``The Commission''; and
                    (B) in section 309(j)(8)(B), by striking the last 
                sentence.
    (j) Additional Outdated Reports.--The Communications Act of 1934 is 
further amended--
            (1) in section 4--
                    (A) in subsection (b)(2)(B)(ii), by striking ``and 
                shall furnish notice of such action'' and all that 
                follows through ``subject of the waiver''; and
                    (B) in subsection (g), by striking paragraph (2);
            (2) in section 215--
                    (A) by striking subsection (b); and
                    (B) by redesignating subsection (c) as subsection 
                (b);
            (3) in section 227(e), by striking paragraph (4);
            (4) in section 309(j)--
                    (A) by striking paragraph (12); and
                    (B) in paragraph (15)(C), by striking clause (iv);
            (5) in section 331(b), by striking the last sentence;
            (6) in section 336(e), by amending paragraph (4) to read as 
        follows:
            ``(4) Report.--The Commission shall annually advise the 
        Congress on the amounts collected pursuant to the program 
        required by this subsection.'';
            (7) in section 339(c), by striking paragraph (1);
            (8) in section 396--
                    (A) by striking subsection (i);
                    (B) in subsection (k)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking 
                        subparagraph (F); and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3)(B)(iii), by striking 
                        subclause (V);
                    (C) in subsection (l)(1)(B), by striking ``shall be 
                included'' and all that follows through ``The audit 
                report''; and
                    (D) by striking subsection (m);
            (9) in section 398(b)(4), by striking the third sentence;
            (10) in section 624A(b)(1)--
                    (A) by striking ``Report; regulations'' and 
                inserting ``Regulations'';
                    (B) by striking ``Within 1 year after'' and all 
                that follows through ``on means of assuring'' and 
                inserting ``The Commission shall issue such regulations 
                as are necessary to assure''; and
                    (C) by striking ``Within 180 days after'' and all 
                that follows through ``to assure such compatibility.''; 
                and
            (11) in section 713, by striking subsection (a).

SEC. 203. EFFECT ON AUTHORITY.

    Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title shall be 
construed to expand or contract the authority of the Commission.

SEC. 204. OTHER REPORTS.

    Nothing in this title or the amendments made by this title shall be 
construed to prohibit or otherwise prevent the Commission from 
producing any additional reports otherwise within the authority of the 
Commission.

             TITLE III--SMALL BUSINESS BROADBAND DEPLOYMENT

SEC. 301. EXCEPTION TO ENHANCEMENT TO TRANSPARENCY REQUIREMENTS FOR 
              SMALL BUSINESSES.

    (a) In General.--The enhancements to the transparency rule of the 
Commission under section 8.3 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, 
as described in paragraphs 162 through 184 of the Report and Order on 
Remand, Declaratory Ruling, and Order of the Commission with regard to 
protecting and promoting the open Internet (adopted February 26, 2015) 
(FCC 15-24), shall not apply to any small business.
    (b) Sunset.--Subsection (a) shall not have any force or effect 
after the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this 
Act.
    (c) Report by FCC.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee 
on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that 
contains the recommendations of the Commission (and data supporting 
such recommendations) regarding--
            (1) whether the exception provided by subsection (a) should 
        be made permanent; and
            (2) whether the definition of the term ``small business'' 
        for purposes of such exception should be modified from the 
        definition in subsection (d)(2).
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Broadband internet access service.--The term 
        ``broadband Internet access service'' has the meaning given 
        such term in section 8.2 of title 47, Code of Federal 
        Regulations.
            (2) Small business.--The term ``small business'' means any 
        provider of broadband Internet access service that has not more 
        than 250,000 subscribers.

                          TITLE IV--KARI'S LAW

SEC. 401. SHORT TITLE.

    This title may be cited as the ``Kari's Law Act of 2016''.

SEC. 402. CONFIGURATION OF MULTI-LINE TELEPHONE SYSTEMS FOR DIRECT 
              DIALING OF 9-1-1.

    (a) In General.--Title VII of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 
U.S.C. 601 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 721. CONFIGURATION OF MULTI-LINE TELEPHONE SYSTEMS FOR DIRECT 
              DIALING OF 9-1-1.

    ``(a) System Manufacture, Importation, Sale, and Lease.--A person 
engaged in the business of manufacturing, importing, selling, or 
leasing multi-line telephone systems may not manufacture or import for 
use in the United States, or sell or lease or offer to sell or lease in 
the United States, a multi-line telephone system, unless such system is 
pre-configured such that, when properly installed in accordance with 
subsection (b), a user may directly initiate a call to 9-1-1 from any 
station equipped with dialing facilities, without dialing any 
additional digit, code, prefix, or post-fix, including any trunk-access 
code such as the digit `9', regardless of whether the user is required 
to dial such a digit, code, prefix, or post-fix for other calls.
    ``(b) System Installation, Management, and Operation.--A person 
engaged in the business of installing, managing, or operating multi-
line telephone systems may not install, manage, or operate for use in 
the United States such a system, unless such system is configured such 
that a user may directly initiate a call to 9-1-1 from any station 
equipped with dialing facilities, without dialing any additional digit, 
code, prefix, or post-fix, including any trunk-access code such as the 
digit `9', regardless of whether the user is required to dial such a 
digit, code, prefix, or post-fix for other calls.
    ``(c) On-Site Notification.--A person engaged in the business of 
installing, managing, or operating multi-line telephone systems shall, 
in installing, managing, or operating such a system for use in the 
United States, configure the system to provide a notification to a 
central location at the facility where the system is installed or to 
another person or organization regardless of location, if the system is 
able to be configured to provide the notification without an 
improvement to the hardware or software of the system.
    ``(d) Effect on State Law.--Nothing in this section is intended to 
alter the authority of State commissions or other State or local 
agencies with jurisdiction over emergency communications, if the 
exercise of such authority is not inconsistent with this Act.
    ``(e) Enforcement.--This section shall be enforced under title V, 
except that section 501 applies only to the extent that such section 
provides for the punishment of a fine.
    ``(f) Multi-Line Telephone System Defined.--In this section, the 
term `multi-line telephone system' has the meaning given such term in 
section 6502 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 
2012 (47 U.S.C. 1471).''.
    (b) Effective Date.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), 
        section 721 of the Communications Act of 1934, as added by 
        subsection (a) of this section, shall apply beginning on the 
        date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this 
        Act.
            (2) Exception.--Subsection (b) or (c) of such section 721 
        shall not apply to a multi-line telephone system that was 
        installed before the date that is 2 years after the date of the 
        enactment of this Act if such system is not able to be 
        configured to meet the requirement of such subsection (b) or 
        (c), respectively, without an improvement to the hardware or 
        software of the system.

           TITLE V--SECURING ACCESS TO NETWORKS IN DISASTERS

SEC. 501. STUDY ON NETWORK RESILIENCY.

    Not later than 36 months after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Commission shall submit to Congress, and make publically available 
on the Commission's website, a study on the public safety benefits and 
technical feasibility and cost of--
            (1) making telecommunications service provider-owned WiFi 
        access points, and other communications technologies operating 
        on unlicensed spectrum, available to the general public for 
        access to 9-1-1 services, without requiring any login 
        credentials, during times of emergency when mobile service is 
        unavailable;
            (2) the provision by non-telecommunications service 
        provider-owned WiFi access points of public access to 9-1-1 
        services during times of emergency when mobile service is 
        unavailable; and
            (3) other alternative means of providing the public with 
        access to 9-1-1 services during times of emergency when mobile 
        service is unavailable.

SEC. 502. ACCESS TO ESSENTIAL SERVICE PROVIDERS DURING FEDERALLY 
              DECLARED EMERGENCIES.

    Section 427(a)(1)(A) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and 
Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5189e(a)(1)(A)) is amended by 
striking ``telecommunications service'' and inserting ``wireline or 
mobile telephone service, Internet access service, radio or television 
broadcasting, cable service, or direct broadcast satellite service''.

SEC. 503. DEFINITIONS.

    As used in this title--
            (1) the term ``mobile service'' means commercial mobile 
        service (as defined in section 332 of the Communications Act of 
        1934 (47 U.S.C. 332)) or commercial mobile data service (as 
        defined in section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job 
        Creation Act of 2012 (47 U.S.C. 1401));
            (2) the term ``WiFi access point'' means wireless Internet 
        access using the standard designated as 802.11 or any variant 
        thereof; and
            (3) the term ``times of emergency'' means either an 
        emergency as defined in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford 
        Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. 5122), 
        or an emergency as declared by the governor of a State or 
        territory of the United States.

                     TITLE VI--SPOOFING PREVENTION

SEC. 601. SPOOFING PREVENTION.

    (a) Expanding and Clarifying Prohibition on Misleading or 
Inaccurate Caller Identification Information.--
            (1) Communications from outside the united states.--Section 
        227(e)(1) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
        227(e)(1)) is amended by striking ``in connection with any 
        telecommunications service or IP-enabled voice service'' and 
        inserting ``or any person outside the United States if the 
        recipient is within the United States, in connection with any 
        voice service or text messaging service''.
            (2) Coverage of text messages and voice services.--Section 
        227(e)(8) of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
        227(e)(8)) is amended--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                ``telecommunications service or IP-enabled voice 
                service'' and inserting ``voice service or a text 
                message sent using a text messaging service'';
                    (B) in the first sentence of subparagraph (B), by 
                striking ``telecommunications service or IP-enabled 
                voice service'' and inserting ``voice service or a text 
                message sent using a text messaging service''; and
                    (C) by striking subparagraph (C) and inserting the 
                following:
                    ``(C) Text message.--The term `text message'--
                            ``(i) means a message consisting of text, 
                        images, sounds, or other information that is 
                        transmitted to or from a device that is 
                        identified as the receiving or transmitting 
                        device by means of a 10-digit telephone number 
                        or N11 service code;
                            ``(ii) includes a short message service 
                        (commonly referred to as `SMS') message and a 
                        multimedia message service (commonly referred 
                        to as `MMS') message; and
                            ``(iii) does not include--
                                    ``(I) a real-time, 2-way voice or 
                                video communication; or
                                    ``(II) a message sent over an IP-
                                enabled messaging service to another 
                                user of the same messaging service, 
                                except a message described in clause 
                                (ii).
                    ``(D) Text messaging service.--The term `text 
                messaging service' means a service that enables the 
                transmission or receipt of a text message, including a 
                service provided as part of or in connection with a 
                voice service.
                    ``(E) Voice service.--The term `voice service'--
                            ``(i) means any service that is 
                        interconnected with the public switched 
                        telephone network and that furnishes voice 
                        communications to an end user using resources 
                        from the North American Numbering Plan or any 
                        successor to the North American Numbering Plan 
                        adopted by the Commission under section 
                        251(e)(1); and
                            ``(ii) includes transmissions from a 
                        telephone facsimile machine, computer, or other 
                        device to a telephone facsimile machine.''.
            (3) Technical amendment.--Section 227(e) of the 
        Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)) is amended in the 
        heading by inserting ``Misleading or'' before ``Inaccurate''.
            (4) Regulations.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 227(e)(3)(A) of the 
                Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)(3)(A)) is 
                amended by striking ``Not later than 6 months after the 
                date of enactment of the Truth in Caller ID Act of 
                2009, the Commission'' and inserting ``The 
                Commission''.
                    (B) Deadline.--The Commission shall prescribe 
                regulations to implement the amendments made by this 
                subsection not later than 18 months after the date of 
                enactment of this Act.
            (5) Effective date.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date 
        on which the Commission prescribes regulations under paragraph 
        (4).
    (b) Consumer Education Materials on How to Avoid Scams That Rely 
Upon Misleading or Inaccurate Caller Identification Information.--
            (1) Development of materials.--Not later than 1 year after 
        the date of enactment of this Act, the Commission, in 
        coordination with the Federal Trade Commission, shall develop 
        consumer education materials that provide information about--
                    (A) ways for consumers to identify scams and other 
                fraudulent activity that rely upon the use of 
                misleading or inaccurate caller identification 
                information; and
                    (B) existing technologies, if any, that a consumer 
                can use to protect against such scams and other 
                fraudulent activity.
            (2) Contents.--In developing the consumer education 
        materials under paragraph (1), the Commission shall--
                    (A) identify existing technologies, if any, that 
                can help consumers guard themselves against scams and 
                other fraudulent activity that rely upon the use of 
                misleading or inaccurate caller identification 
                information, including--
                            (i) descriptions of how a consumer can use 
                        the technologies to protect against such scams 
                        and other fraudulent activity; and
                            (ii) details on how consumers can access 
                        and use the technologies; and
                    (B) provide other information that may help 
                consumers identify and avoid scams and other fraudulent 
                activity that rely upon the use of misleading or 
                inaccurate caller identification information.
            (3) Updates.--The Commission shall ensure that the consumer 
        education materials required under paragraph (1) are updated on 
        a regular basis.
            (4) Website.--The Commission shall include the consumer 
        education materials developed under paragraph (1) on its 
        website.
    (c) GAO Report on Combating the Fraudulent Provision of Misleading 
or Inaccurate Caller Identification Information.--
            (1) In general.--The Comptroller General of the United 
        States shall conduct a study of the actions the Commission and 
        the Federal Trade Commission have taken to combat the 
        fraudulent provision of misleading or inaccurate caller 
        identification information, and the additional measures that 
        could be taken to combat such activity.
            (2) Required considerations.--In conducting the study under 
        paragraph (1), the Comptroller General shall examine--
                    (A) trends in the types of scams that rely on 
                misleading or inaccurate caller identification 
                information;
                    (B) previous and current enforcement actions by the 
                Commission and the Federal Trade Commission to combat 
                the practices prohibited by section 227(e)(1) of the 
                Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 227(e)(1));
                    (C) current efforts by industry groups and other 
                entities to develop technical standards to deter or 
                prevent the fraudulent provision of misleading or 
                inaccurate caller identification information, and how 
                such standards may help combat the current and future 
                provision of misleading or inaccurate caller 
                identification information; and
                    (D) whether there are additional actions the 
                Commission, the Federal Trade Commission, and Congress 
                should take to combat the fraudulent provision of 
                misleading or inaccurate caller identification 
                information.
            (3) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to 
        the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and 
        Transportation of the Senate a report on the findings of the 
        study under paragraph (1), including any recommendations 
        regarding combating the fraudulent provision of misleading or 
        inaccurate caller identification information.
    (d) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section, or the 
amendments made by this section, shall be construed to modify, limit, 
or otherwise affect any rule or order adopted by the Commission in 
connection with--
            (1) the Telephone Consumer Protection Act of 1991 (Public 
        Law 102-243; 105 Stat. 2394) or the amendments made by that 
        Act; or
            (2) the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 (15 U.S.C. 7701 et seq.).

                    TITLE VII--AMATEUR RADIO PARITY

SEC. 701. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) More than 730,000 radio amateurs in the United States 
        are licensed by the Commission in the amateur radio services.
            (2) Amateur radio, at no cost to taxpayers, provides a 
        fertile ground for technical self-training in modern 
        telecommunications, electronics technology, and emergency 
        communications techniques and protocols.
            (3) There is a strong Federal interest in the effective 
        performance of amateur stations established at the residences 
        of licensees. Such stations have been shown to be frequently 
        and increasingly precluded by unreasonable private land use 
        restrictions, including restrictive covenants.
            (4) Commission regulations have for three decades 
        prohibited the application to stations in the amateur service 
        of State and local regulations that preclude or fail to 
        reasonably accommodate amateur service communications, or that 
        do not constitute the minimum practicable regulation to 
        accomplish a legitimate State or local purpose. Commission 
        policy has been and is to require States and localities to 
        permit erection of a station antenna structure at heights and 
        dimensions sufficient to accommodate amateur service 
        communications.
            (5) The Commission has sought guidance and direction from 
        Congress with respect to the application of the Commission's 
        limited preemption policy regarding amateur service 
        communications to private land use restrictions, including 
        restrictive covenants.
            (6) There are aesthetic and common property considerations 
        that are uniquely applicable to private land use regulations 
        and the community associations obligated to enforce covenants, 
        conditions, and restrictions in deed-restricted communities. 
        These considerations are dissimilar to those applicable to 
        State law and local ordinances regulating the same residential 
        amateur radio facilities.
            (7) In recognition of these considerations, a separate 
        Federal policy than exists at section 97.15(b) of title 47, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, is warranted concerning amateur 
        service communications in deed-restricted communities.
            (8) Community associations should fairly administer private 
        land use regulations in the interest of their communities, 
        while nevertheless permitting the installation and maintenance 
        of effective outdoor amateur radio antennas. There exist 
        antenna designs and installations that can be consistent with 
        the aesthetics and physical characteristics of land and 
        structures in community associations while accommodating 
        communications in the amateur radio services.

SEC. 702. APPLICATION OF PRIVATE LAND USE RESTRICTIONS TO AMATEUR 
              STATIONS.

    (a) Amendment of FCC Rules.--Not later than 120 days after the date 
of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall amend section 97.15 
of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, by adding a new paragraph 
that prohibits the application to amateur stations of any private land 
use restriction, including a restrictive covenant, that--
            (1) on its face or as applied, precludes communications in 
        an amateur radio service;
            (2) fails to permit a licensee in an amateur radio service 
        to install and maintain an effective outdoor antenna on 
        property under the exclusive use or control of the licensee; or
            (3) does not constitute the minimum practicable restriction 
        on such communications to accomplish the lawful purposes of a 
        community association seeking to enforce such restriction.
    (b) Additional Requirements.--In amending its rules as required by 
subsection (a), the Commission shall--
            (1) require any licensee in an amateur radio service to 
        notify and obtain prior approval from a community association 
        concerning installation of an outdoor antenna;
            (2) permit a community association to prohibit installation 
        of any antenna or antenna support structure by a licensee in an 
        amateur radio service on common property not under the 
        exclusive use or control of the licensee; and
            (3) subject to the standards specified in paragraphs (1) 
        and (2) of subsection (a), permit a community association to 
        establish reasonable written rules concerning height, location, 
        size, and aesthetic impact of, and installation requirements 
        for, outdoor antennas and support structures for the purpose of 
        conducting communications in the amateur radio services.

SEC. 703. AFFIRMATION OF LIMITED PREEMPTION OF STATE AND LOCAL LAND USE 
              REGULATION.

    The Commission may not change section 97.15(b) of title 47, Code of 
Federal Regulations, which shall remain applicable to State and local 
land use regulation of amateur service communications.

SEC. 704. DEFINITIONS.

    In this title:
            (1) Community association.--The term ``community 
        association'' means any non-profit mandatory membership 
        organization composed of owners of real estate described in a 
        declaration of covenants or created pursuant to a covenant or 
        other applicable law with respect to which a person, by virtue 
        of the person's ownership of or interest in a unit or parcel, 
        is obligated to pay for a share of real estate taxes, insurance 
        premiums, maintenance, improvement, services, or other expenses 
        related to common elements, other units, or any other real 
        estate other than the unit or parcel described in the 
        declaration.
            (2) Terms defined in regulations.--The terms ``amateur 
        radio services'', ``amateur service'', and ``amateur station'' 
        have the meanings given such terms in section 97.3 of title 47, 
        Code of Federal Regulations.

        TITLE VIII--IMPROVING RURAL CALL QUALITY AND RELIABILITY

SEC. 801. ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF VOICE COMMUNICATIONS.

    Part II of title II of the Communications Act of 1934 (47 U.S.C. 
251 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 262. ENSURING THE INTEGRITY OF VOICE COMMUNICATIONS.

    ``(a) Registration and Compliance by Intermediate Providers.--An 
intermediate provider that offers or holds itself out as offering the 
capability to transmit covered voice communications from one 
destination to another and that charges any rate to any other entity 
(including an affiliated entity) for the transmission shall--
            ``(1) register with the Commission; and
            ``(2) comply with the service quality standards for such 
        transmission to be established by the Commission under 
        subsection (c)(1)(B).
    ``(b) Required Use of Registered Intermediate Providers.--A covered 
provider may not use an intermediate provider to transmit covered voice 
communications unless such intermediate provider is registered under 
subsection (a)(1).
    ``(c) Commission Rules.--
            ``(1) In general.--
                    ``(A) Registry.--Not later than 180 days after the 
                date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall 
                promulgate rules to establish a registry to record 
                registrations under subsection (a)(1).
                    ``(B) Service quality standards.--Not later than 1 
                year after the date of enactment of this section, the 
                Commission shall promulgate rules to establish service 
                quality standards for the transmission of covered voice 
                communications by intermediate providers.
            ``(2) Requirements.--In promulgating the rules required by 
        paragraph (1), the Commission shall--
                    ``(A) ensure the integrity of the transmission of 
                covered voice communications to all customers in the 
                United States; and
                    ``(B) prevent unjust or unreasonable discrimination 
                among areas of the United States in the delivery of 
                covered voice communications.
    ``(d) Public Availability of Registry.--The Commission shall make 
the registry established under subsection (c)(1)(A) publicly available 
on the website of the Commission.
    ``(e) Scope of Application.--The requirements of this section shall 
apply regardless of the format by which any communication or service is 
provided, the protocol or format by which the transmission of such 
communication or service is achieved, or the regulatory classification 
of such communication or service.
    ``(f) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to affect the regulatory classification of any communication 
or service.
    ``(g) Effect on Other Laws.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to preempt or expand the authority of a State public utility 
commission or other relevant State agency to collect data, or 
investigate and enforce State law and regulations, regarding the 
completion of intrastate voice communications, regardless of the format 
by which any communication or service is provided, the protocol or 
format by which the transmission of such communication or service is 
achieved, or the regulatory classification of such communication or 
service.
    ``(h) Exception.--The requirement under subsection (a)(2) to comply 
with the service quality standards established under subsection 
(c)(1)(B) shall not apply to a covered provider that--
            ``(1) on or before the date that is 1 year after the date 
        of enactment of this section, has certified as a Safe Harbor 
        provider under section 64.2107(a) of title 47, Code of Federal 
        Regulations, or any successor regulation; and
            ``(2) continues to meet the requirements under such section 
        64.2107(a).
    ``(i) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Covered provider.--The term `covered provider' has 
        the meaning given the term in section 64.2101 of title 47, Code 
        of Federal Regulations, or any successor thereto.
            ``(2) Covered voice communication.--The term `covered voice 
        communication' means a voice communication (including any 
        related signaling information) that is generated--
                    ``(A) from the placement of a call from a 
                connection using a North American Numbering Plan 
                resource or a call placed to a connection using such a 
                numbering resource; and
                    ``(B) through any service provided by a covered 
                provider.
            ``(3) Intermediate provider.--The term `intermediate 
        provider' means any entity that--
                    ``(A) enters into a business arrangement with a 
                covered provider or other intermediate provider for the 
                specific purpose of carrying, routing, or transmitting 
                voice traffic that is generated from the placement of a 
                call placed--
                            ``(i) from an end user connection using a 
                        North American Numbering Plan resource; or
                            ``(ii) to an end user connection using such 
                        a numbering resource; and
                    ``(B) does not itself, either directly or in 
                conjunction with an affiliate, serve as a covered 
                provider in the context of originating or terminating a 
                given call.''.

            Amend the title so as to read: ``An Act to amend the 
        Communications Act of 1934 to provide for greater transparency 
        and efficiency in the procedures followed by the Federal 
        Communications Commission, to consolidate certain reporting 
        obligations of the Commission, and to update certain other 
        provisions of such Act, and for other purposes.''.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
114th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                 S. 253

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENTS
