[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3294 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3294

 To establish the Mandatory Bureaucratic Realignment and Consolidation 
       Commission to reduce outlays flowing from direct spending.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                           September 7, 2016

   Mr. Coats introduced the following bill; which was read twice and 
referred to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To establish the Mandatory Bureaucratic Realignment and Consolidation 
       Commission to reduce outlays flowing from direct spending.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Mandatory Bureaucratic Realignment 
and Consolidation Commission Act of 2016'' or the ``Mandatory BRACC 
Act''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act--
            (1) the terms ``account'', ``budgetary resources'', 
        ``direct spending'', ``discretionary appropriations'', and 
        ``sequestration'' have the meaning given such terms in section 
        250(c) of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act 
        of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900(c));
            (2) the term ``Commission'' means the Mandatory 
        Bureaucratic Realignment and Consolidation Commission 
        established under section 4(a);
            (3) the term ``Commission bill'' means a bill consisting of 
        the proposed legislative language recommended by the Commission 
        under section 4(b)(3) and introduced under section 5(a);
            (4) the term ``outlays'' has the meaning given that term 
        under section 3 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 (2 
        U.S.C. 622); and
            (5) the term ``total spending''--
                    (A) means all outlays of the Government;
                    (B) includes outlays from off-budget entities and 
                budget authority and outlays flowing therefrom, as 
                applicable, designated as emergencies; and
                    (C) does not include net interest.

SEC. 3. PURPOSE.

    The purpose of this Act is to reduce outlays flowing from direct 
spending such that--
            (1) total spending for each fiscal year is not more than 
        total revenues for the fiscal year; and
            (2) outlays flowing from direct spending are not more than 
        50 percent of total spending.

SEC. 4. ESTABLISHMENT OF MANDATORY BUREAUCRATIC REALIGNMENT AND 
              CONSOLIDATION COMMISSION.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the legislative branch 
a commission to be known as the ``Mandatory Bureaucratic Realignment 
and Consolidation Commission''.
    (b) Duties.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission--
                    (A) shall review all direct spending by the Federal 
                Government to--
                            (i) identify changes in law (which may 
                        include ways to streamline functions and 
                        increase efficiency within agencies or 
                        programs) that will reduce outlays flowing from 
                        the direct spending;
                            (ii) identify the goals of each direct 
                        spending program;
                            (iii) determine whether there are effective 
                        methods to measure the outcomes of each direct 
                        spending program;
                            (iv) evaluate the usefulness of each direct 
                        spending program;
                            (v) evaluate whether each direct spending 
                        program could be consolidated with another 
                        direct spending program, or a program subject 
                        to the availability of discretionary 
                        appropriations, with similar goals and make 
                        recommendations for consolidating the spending 
                        programs that are identified;
                            (vi) evaluate the potential benefits of 
                        eliminating any direct spending program that 
                        does not have proven beneficial outcomes or 
                        usefulness and make recommendations regarding 
                        eliminating direct spending programs that are 
                        identified;
                            (vii) identify opportunities and make 
                        recommendations regarding ways for the Federal 
                        Government to reduce the cost or increase the 
                        efficiency of direct spending programs by 
                        contracting with private entities, or 
                        delegating authority to States, to perform 
                        activities relating to the program;
                            (viii) identify direct spending programs 
                        and entitlement authorities that should be 
                        modified to be carried out subject to the 
                        availability of discretionary appropriations; 
                        and
                            (ix) identify other ways to achieve the 
                        requirements described in paragraph (3)(B), as 
                        determined by the Commission; and
                    (B) may review the offsetting receipts and 
                discretionary appropriations of the Federal Government, 
                as determined appropriate by the Commission.
            (2) Consultation and working groups.--
                    (A) In general.--In carrying out the review under 
                paragraph (1)(A), the Commission shall--
                            (i) consult with experts in company 
                        restructuring, reorganizing, and cost cutting; 
                        and
                            (ii) establish working groups for direct 
                        spending programs, as determined appropriate by 
                        the Commission, to provide recommendations to 
                        the Commission.
                    (B) Members of working groups.--The individuals 
                serving on a working group established under 
                subparagraph (A)(ii) shall be employees or contractors 
                of the Commission with expertise in a program reviewed 
                by the working group.
            (3) Reporting and proposed legislation.--
                    (A) In general.--The Commission--
                            (i) shall identify changes in law that will 
                        result in the reduction of outlays that will 
                        achieve the requirements described in 
                        subparagraph (B);
                            (ii) not later than 6 months after the date 
                        on which all members of the Commission are 
                        appointed, and upon an affirmative vote of a 
                        majority of the members of the Commission, 
                        shall submit to Congress and make publicly 
                        available a report containing--
                                    (I) a detailed statement of the 
                                findings, conclusions, and 
                                recommendations of the Commission;
                                    (II) the assumptions, scenarios, 
                                and alternatives considered in reaching 
                                such findings, conclusions, and 
                                recommendations; and
                                    (III) proposed legislative language 
                                to carry out the changes in law 
                                identified under clause (i); and
                            (iii) may include in the proposed 
                        legislative language submitted under clause 
                        (ii)(III) changes in law that reduce outlays 
                        such that the requirements under subparagraph 
                        (B) are exceeded.
                    (B) Requirements.--The requirements under this 
                subparagraph are that, according to the most recent 
                budget estimates by the Congressional Budget Office as 
                of the date on which the recommendations of the 
                Commission are issued, outlays flowing from direct 
                spending are reduced such that--
                            (i) total spending is gradually reduced 
                        during the period of fiscal years 2018 through 
                        2027;
                            (ii) not later than the start of fiscal 
                        year 2027, and for each fiscal year thereafter, 
                        total spending is not more than total revenues; 
                        and
                            (iii) not later than the start of fiscal 
                        year 2027, and for each fiscal year thereafter, 
                        outlays flowing from direct spending are not 
                        more than 50 percent of total spending.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) In general.--The Commission shall be composed of 12 
        members, appointed as follows:
                    (A) The President shall appoint 2 members.
                    (B) The majority leader of the Senate shall appoint 
                2 members.
                    (C) The minority leader of the Senate shall appoint 
                2 members.
                    (D) The Speaker of the House of Representatives 
                shall appoint 2 members.
                    (E) The minority leader of the House of 
                Representatives shall appoint 2 members.
                    (F) The majority leader of the Senate or the 
                minority leader of the Senate shall appoint 2 members, 
                as necessary for there to be an equal number of 
                appointments of members of the Commission made by 
                members of each of the 2 major political parties.
            (2) Disqualifications.--An individual may not be appointed 
        as a member of the Commission if the individual--
                    (A) was an officer or employee of any establishment 
                in the Federal Government at any time during the 5-year 
                period ending on the date of the appointment; or
                    (B) was registered as a lobbyist under the Lobbying 
                Disclosure Act of 1995 (2 U.S.C. 1601 et seq.) at any 
                time during the 5-year period ending on the date of the 
                appointment.
            (3) Chairperson.--The members of the Commission shall 
        select a Chairperson from among the members of the Commission.
            (4) Date.--Not later than 1 month after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, all members of the Commission shall be 
        appointed.
            (5) Period of designation.--Members shall be appointed for 
        the life of the Commission. Any vacancy in the Commission shall 
        not affect its powers, but shall be filled not later than 14 
        days after the date on which the vacancy occurs in the same 
        manner as the original appointment.
            (6) Compensation.--
                    (A) In general.--Each member of the Commission 
                shall be compensated at a rate equal to the daily 
                equivalent of the annual rate of basic pay prescribed 
                for a position at level III of the Executive Schedule 
                under section 5314 of title 5, United States Code, for 
                each day (including travel time) during which such 
                member is engaged in the performance of the duties of 
                the Commission.
                    (B) Travel expenses.--Members may be allowed travel 
                expenses, including per diem in lieu of subsistence, in 
                accordance with sections 5702 and 5703 of title 5, 
                United States Code, while away from their homes or 
                regular places of business in performance of services 
                for the Commission.
    (d) Powers of the Commission.--
            (1) Hearings.--The Commission may, for the purpose of 
        carrying out this Act--
                    (A) hold such hearings, sit and act at such times 
                and places, take such testimony, receive such evidence, 
                and administer such oaths as the Commission considers 
                advisable to carry out its duties; and
                    (B) require, by subpoena or otherwise, the 
                attendance and testimony of such witnesses and the 
                production of such books, records, correspondence, 
                memoranda, papers, documents, tapes, and materials as 
                the Commission considers advisable to carry out its 
                duties.
            (2) Information from federal agencies.--The Commission may 
        request directly, or require, by subpoena or otherwise, from 
        any Federal agency such information as the Commission considers 
        necessary to carry out its duties. Upon a request of the 
        Chairperson of the Commission, the head of a Federal agency 
        shall furnish such information to the Commission.
            (3) Issuance and enforcement of subpoenas.--
                    (A) Issuance.--Subpoenas issued under paragraph (1) 
                or (2) shall bear the signature of the Chairperson of 
                the Commission and shall be served by any person or 
                class of persons designated by the Chairperson for that 
                purpose.
                    (B) Enforcement.--In the case of contumacy or 
                failure to obey a subpoena issued under paragraph (1) 
                or (2), the United States district court for the 
                judicial district in which the subpoenaed person 
                resides, is served, or may be found may issue an order 
                requiring such person to appear at any designated place 
                to testify or to produce documentary or other evidence. 
                Any failure to obey the order of the court may be 
                punished by the court as a contempt of that court.
            (4) Witness allowances and fees.--Section 1821 of title 28, 
        United States Code, shall apply to witnesses requested or 
        subpoenaed to appear at any hearing of the Commission. The per 
        diem and mileage allowances for witnesses shall be paid from 
        funds available to pay the expenses of the Commission.
            (5) Information from the congressional budget office.--The 
        Commission may secure directly from the Congressional Budget 
        Office such information, including estimates and analysis, as 
        the Commission considers advisable to carry out its duties. 
        Upon request of the Chairperson of the Commission, the Director 
        of the Congressional Budget Office shall furnish such 
        information, including estimates and analysis, to the 
        Commission.
    (e) Staff of the Commission.--
            (1) Appointment and compensation of staff.--The Chairperson 
        may appoint and fix the compensation of a staff director and 
        such other employees as may be necessary to enable the 
        Commission to carry out its functions, without regard to the 
        provisions of title 5, United States Code, governing 
        appointments in the competitive service, but at rates not to 
        exceed the annual rate of basic pay prescribed for a position 
        at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of 
        title 5 of the United States Code.
            (2) Agency assistance.--Upon the request of the 
        Chairperson, the head of any agency may detail an employee of 
        the agency to the Commission without reimbursement, and such 
        detail shall be without interruption or loss of civil service 
        status or privilege.
    (f) Consultant, Temporary, and Intermittent Services.--The 
Chairperson of the Commission is authorized to procure the services of 
experts and consultants and temporary and intermittent services in 
accordance with section 3109 of title 5, United States Code, but at 
rates not to exceed the daily rate paid a person occupying a position 
at level V of the Executive Schedule under section 5316 of title 5, 
United States Code, for each day during which such consultant or expert 
is engaged in the performance of the duties of the Commission.
    (g) Termination.--The Commission shall terminate on the day after 
the earlier of--
            (1) the date on which the Commission bill is enacted into 
        law; or
            (2) the date on which the period during which Congress may 
        consider the Commission bill (including the consideration of 
        any veto message) expires under section 5.
    (h) FACA.--The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall 
not apply to the Commission.

SEC. 5. EXPEDITED PROCEDURES.

    (a) Introduction.--The proposed legislative language recommended by 
the Commission under section 4(b)(3)--
            (1) shall be introduced in the Senate (by request), with 
        any technical changes necessary to carry out the intent of the 
        proposed legislative language, by the majority leader of the 
        Senate or by a Member of the Senate designated by the majority 
        leader of the Senate not later than 10 legislative days after 
        the date on which the proposed legislation is submitted to 
        Congress; and
            (2) shall be introduced in the House of Representatives (by 
        request), with any technical changes necessary to carry out the 
        intent of the proposed legislative language, by the Speaker of 
        the House of Representatives or by a Member of the House of 
        Representatives designated by the Speaker of the House of 
        Representatives not later than 10 legislative days after the 
        date on which the proposed legislation is submitted to 
        Congress.
    (b) Expedited Consideration in House of Representatives.--
            (1) Placement on calendar.--Upon introduction in the House 
        of Representatives, the Commission bill shall be placed 
        immediately on the appropriate calendar.
            (2) Proceeding to consideration.--
                    (A) In general.--It shall be in order, not later 
                than 60 legislative days after the date the Commission 
                bill is introduced in the House of Representatives, to 
                move to proceed to consider the Commission bill in the 
                House of Representatives.
                    (B) Procedure.--For a motion to proceed to consider 
                the Commission bill--
                            (i) all points of order against the motion 
                        are waived;
                            (ii) such a motion shall not be in order 
                        after the House of Representatives has disposed 
                        of a motion to proceed on the Commission bill;
                            (iii) the previous question shall be 
                        considered as ordered on the motion to its 
                        adoption without intervening motion;
                            (iv) the motion shall not be debatable; and
                            (v) a motion to reconsider the vote by 
                        which the motion is disposed of shall not be in 
                        order.
            (3) Consideration.--If the House of Representatives 
        proceeds to consideration of the Commission bill--
                    (A) the Commission bill shall be considered as 
                read;
                    (B) all points of order against the Commission bill 
                and against its consideration are waived;
                    (C) the previous question shall be considered as 
                ordered on the Commission bill to its passage without 
                intervening motion except 10 hours of debate equally 
                divided and controlled by the proponent and an 
                opponent;
                    (D) an amendment to the Commission bill shall not 
                be in order; and
                    (E) a motion to reconsider the vote on passage of 
                the Commission bill shall not be in order.
            (4) Vote on passage.--In the House of Representatives, the 
        Commission bill shall be agreed to upon a vote of a majority of 
        the Members present and voting, a quorum being present.
    (c) Expedited Consideration in Senate.--
            (1) Placement on calendar.--Upon introduction in the 
        Senate, the Commission bill shall be placed immediately on the 
        calendar.
            (2) Proceeding to consideration.--
                    (A) In general.--Notwithstanding rule XXII of the 
                Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order, not later 
                than 60 legislative days after the date the Commission 
                bill is introduced in the Senate (even though a 
                previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed 
                to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the 
                Commission bill.
                    (B) Procedure.--For a motion to proceed to the 
                consideration of the Commission bill--
                            (i) all points of order against the motion 
                        are waived;
                            (ii) the motion is not debatable;
                            (iii) the motion is not subject to a motion 
                        to postpone;
                            (iv) a motion to reconsider the vote by 
                        which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to 
                        shall not be in order; and
                            (v) if the motion is agreed to, the 
                        Commission bill shall remain the unfinished 
                        business until disposed of.
            (3) Floor consideration.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Senate proceeds to 
                consideration of the Commission bill--
                            (i) all points of order against the 
                        Commission bill (and against consideration of 
                        the Commission bill) are waived;
                            (ii) consideration of the Commission bill, 
                        and all debatable motions and appeals in 
                        connection therewith, shall be limited to not 
                        more than 30 hours, which shall be divided 
                        equally between the majority and minority 
                        leaders or their designees;
                            (iii) a motion further to limit debate is 
                        in order and not debatable;
                            (iv) an amendment to, a motion to postpone, 
                        or a motion to commit the Commission bill is 
                        not in order; and
                            (v) a motion to proceed to the 
                        consideration of other business is not in 
                        order.
                    (B) Vote on passage.--In the Senate--
                            (i) the vote on passage shall occur 
                        immediately following the conclusion of the 
                        consideration of the Commission bill, and a 
                        single quorum call at the conclusion of the 
                        debate if requested in accordance with the 
                        rules of the Senate; and
                            (ii) the Commission bill shall be agreed to 
                        upon a vote of a majority of the Members 
                        present and voting, a quorum being present.
                    (C) Rulings of the chair on procedure.--Appeals 
                from the decisions of the Chair relating to the 
                application of this subsection or the rules of the 
                Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure relating 
                to the Commission bill shall be decided without debate.
    (d) Rules Relating to Senate and House of Representatives.--
            (1) Coordination with action by other house.--If, before 
        the passage by one House of the Commission bill of that House, 
        that House receives from the other House the Commission bill--
                    (A) the Commission bill of the other House shall 
                not be referred to a committee; and
                    (B) with respect to the Commission bill of the 
                House receiving the resolution--
                            (i) the procedure in that House shall be 
                        the same as if no Commission bill had been 
                        received from the other House; and
                            (ii) the vote on passage shall be on the 
                        Commission bill of the other House.
            (2) Treatment of commission bill of other house.--If one 
        House fails to introduce or consider the Commission bill under 
        this section, the Commission bill of the other House shall be 
        entitled to expedited floor procedures under this section.
            (3) Treatment of companion measures.--If, following passage 
        of the Commission bill in the Senate, the Senate receives the 
        companion measure from the House of Representatives, the 
        companion measure shall not be debatable.
            (4) Vetoes.--If the President vetoes the Commission bill, 
        consideration of a veto message in the Senate under this 
        section shall be not more than 10 hours equally divided between 
        the majority and minority leaders or their designees.
    (e) Rules of House of Representatives and Senate.--This section is 
enacted by Congress--
            (1) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate 
        and House of Representatives, respectively, and as such is 
        deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but 
        applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in 
        that House in the case of the Commission bill, and supersede 
        other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with 
        such rules; and
            (2) with full recognition of the constitutional right of 
        either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the 
        procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and 
        to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that 
        House.

SEC. 6. GROWTH LIMITATIONS IN SPENDING IF SAVINGS ARE NOT ENACTED.

    (a) Determination.--Not later than November 1, 2017, and November 1 
of every fiscal year thereafter, the Office of Management and Budget 
shall determine whether total spending for the previous fiscal year was 
more than total revenues for the previous fiscal year.
    (b) Failure To Enact Savings.--Except as provided in subsection 
(d), if the Commission bill to achieve the requirements described in 
section 4(b)(3)(B) is not enacted, notwithstanding section 251A of the 
Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 
901a), effective on the first October 1 occurring after consideration 
of the Commission bill in the Senate and the House of Representatives, 
and October 1 of every fiscal year thereafter, the President shall 
limit the annual growth in outlays by ordering a sequestration, 
effective upon issuance, that ensures projected total spending for the 
fiscal year is not more than 3 percent greater than total spending for 
the previous fiscal year by reducing each nonexempt account by the 
uniform percentage necessary, unless--
            (1) the Office of Management and Budget determines that, as 
        a result of reductions in budgetary resources under this 
        subsection, total spending for the previous fiscal year was not 
        more than total revenues for the previous fiscal year; or
            (2) changes in law have been enacted that will achieve the 
        requirements described in section 4(b)(3)(B).
    (c) Implementation.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), each 
        sequestration under subsection (b) shall be implemented in 
        accordance with the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
        Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 900 et seq.).
            (2) No exemptions, other than payments on interest, or 
        maximum reductions.--Subsections (a), (b), and (d) through (k) 
        of section 255 of the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit 
        Control Act of 1985 (2 U.S.C. 905) and subsections (d)(2) and 
        (e) of section 256 of such Act (2 U.S.C. 906) shall not apply 
        to the sequestration under subsection (b).
    (d) Waiver.--
            (1) In general.--A sequestration required to be ordered 
        under subsection (b) for a fiscal year shall not be implemented 
        if a bill or joint resolution is enacted, upon an affirmative 
        vote of two-thirds of the Members of each House of Congress, 
        waiving subsection (b) for such fiscal year.
            (2) Single fiscal year.--A bill or joint resolution 
        described in paragraph (1) may only waive subsection (b) for a 
        single fiscal year.
                                 <all>
