[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 2377 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                S. 2377

 To defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and protect and 
           secure the United States, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                            December 9, 2015

Mr. Reid (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Leahy, 
 Mrs. Feinstein, Mr. Reed, Mr. Nelson, Mr. Carper, Mr. Cardin, and Mr. 
Brown) introduced the following bill; which was read twice and referred 
                   to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) and protect and 
           secure the United States, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Defeat ISIS and 
Protect and Secure the United States Act of 2015''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
                        TITLE I--DEFEATING ISIS

                Subtitle A--National Security Positions

Sec. 101. United States Coordinator for Strategy to Defeat the Islamic 
                            State in Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 102. Sense of Congress on confirmation by Senate of pending 
                            National Security nominations.
                       Subtitle B--Combating ISIS

Sec. 111. Findings.
Sec. 112. Sense of Congress.
                  Subtitle C--Combating ISIS Financing

Sec. 121. Sense of Congress on defeating terrorist financing by the 
                            Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
Sec. 122. Sanctions with respect to financial institutions that engage 
                            in certain transactions that benefit the 
                            Islamic State of Iraq and Syria.
        Subtitle D--Improving Intelligence Sharing With Partners

Sec. 131. Intelligence sharing relationships.
       Subtitle E--Combating Terrorist Recruitment and Propaganda

Sec. 141. Countering violent extremism.
Sec. 142. Countering ISIS propaganda.
Subtitle F--Improving European Migrant Screening and Stabilizing Jordan 
                              and Lebanon

Sec. 151. Working with Europe to improve migrant screening.
Sec. 152. Migrant stability fund for Jordan and Lebanon.
                   TITLE II--PROTECTING THE HOMELAND

             Subtitle A--Reforming the Visa Waiver Program

Sec. 201. Short title.
Sec. 202. Electronic passports required for visa waiver program.
Sec. 203. Information sharing and cooperation by visa waiver program 
                            countries.
Sec. 204. Biometric submission before entry.
Sec. 205. Visa waiver program administration.
           Subtitle B--Keeping Firearms Away From Terrorists

Sec. 211. Closing the visa waiver program gun loophole.
Sec. 212. Closing the terrorist gun loophole.
              Subtitle C--Strengthening Aviation Security

Sec. 221. Definitions.
 PART I--Transportation Security Administration Workforce Training and 
                               Procedures

Sec. 226. Transportation security officer training.
                        PART II--Access Controls

Sec. 231. Insider threats.
Sec. 232. Aviation workers vetting.
Sec. 233. Infrastructure.
Sec. 234. Visible deterrent.
    PART III--Transportation Security Administration Innovation and 
                               Technology

Sec. 241. Research.
Sec. 242. Public-private partnerships.
Sec. 243. Report.
   PART IV--Improving International Coordination To Track Terrorists

Sec. 251. Coordination with international authorities.
Sec. 252. Sense of Congress on cooperation to track terrorists 
                            traveling by air.
      Subtitle D--Strengthening Security of Radiological Materials

Sec. 261. Preventing terrorist access to domestic radiological 
                            materials.
Sec. 262. Strategy for securing high activity radiological sources.
Sec. 263. Outreach to State and local law enforcement agencies on 
                            radiological threats.
                Subtitle E--Stopping Homegrown Extremism

Sec. 271. Authorization of the Office for Community Partnerships of the 
                            Department of Homeland Security.
Sec. 272. Research and evaluation program for domestic radicalization.
 Subtitle F--Comprehensive Independent Study of National Cryptography 
                                 Policy

Sec. 281. Comprehensive independent study of national cryptography 
                            policy.
                  Subtitle G--Law Enforcement Training

Sec. 291. Law enforcement training for active shooter incidents.
Sec. 292. Active shooter incident response assistance.
Sec. 293. Grants to State and local law enforcement agencies for 
                            antiterrorism training programs.

                        TITLE I--DEFEATING ISIS

                Subtitle A--National Security Positions

SEC. 101. UNITED STATES COORDINATOR FOR STRATEGY TO DEFEAT THE ISLAMIC 
              STATE IN IRAQ AND SYRIA.

    (a) Designation.--Not later than 30 days after date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall designate a single 
coordinator, who shall be responsible for coordinating all efforts 
across the Federal Government and with international partners for 
defeating the Islamic State in Iraq and Syria (ISIS) both within the 
United States and globally.
    (b) Status.--The coordinator designated under subsection (a) shall 
report to the President.
    (c) Duties.--The coordinator designated under subsection (a) shall 
coordinate all lines of effort, activities, and programs related to 
defeating ISIS, including--
            (1) coordinating with the Special Presidential Envoy to the 
        Global Coalition to Counter ISIL;
            (2) coordinating with the Department of Defense and 
        international partners regarding United States military 
        operations, training, and equipment undertaken to defeat ISIS 
        and to deny ISIS safe haven, as appropriate;
            (3) coordinating with the Department of Defense, the 
        Department of State, the intelligence community (as defined in 
        section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 
        3003(4))), and international partners regarding United States 
        efforts to build the capacity of local forces in the Middle 
        East committed to defeating ISIS and rebuilding Iraq and Syria 
        based on secular, inclusive, and representative governance 
        frameworks;
            (4) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of the Treasury, the intelligence community, and 
        international partners regarding United States efforts to 
        counter, undermine, and disrupt ISIS financing;
            (5) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Homeland Security, the Department of Justice, the 
        intelligence community, and international partners regarding 
        United States efforts to counter, halt, and prevent movement of 
        foreign fighters into and out of Iraq and Syria;
            (6) coordinating with the Department of State, the United 
        States Agency for International Development, and international 
        partners regarding United States efforts to counter and 
        undermine ISIS messaging and propaganda around the world;
            (7) coordinating with the Department of State, the United 
        States Agency for International Development, the United 
        Nations, and international partners regarding United States 
        contributions and support for addressing the humanitarian 
        crisis resulting from ISIS activities; and
            (8) coordinating with the Department of State and the 
        United States Agency for International Development regarding 
        United States diplomatic engagement toward long-term 
        sustainable political solutions in Iraq and Syria, including 
        promoting responsible, inclusive governance in Iraq and a 
        transitional governing body in Syria without Bashar al-Assad, 
        as well as coordinating support for other nations at risk of 
        ISIS influence.
    (d) Consultation.--The coordinator designated under subsection (a) 
shall consult with Congress, domestic and international organizations, 
multilateral organizations and institutions, and foreign governments 
committed to defeating ISIS to the extent the Coordinator considers 
appropriate to fulfill the purposes of this section.

SEC. 102. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON CONFIRMATION BY SENATE OF PENDING 
              NATIONAL SECURITY NOMINATIONS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the terrorist attacks in November 2015 demonstrate the 
        need for renewed vigilance to prevent an attack on the United 
        States homeland;
            (2) national security positions throughout the United 
        States Government are essential to protect the safety of the 
        American public, and vacancies in such positions hurt our 
        efforts to combat terrorists;
            (3) greater global coordination will be required to defeat 
        the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS), so the Senate 
        should promptly confirm pending nominations to positions of 
        ambassador in order to represent United States national 
        security interests abroad;
            (4) to assist with negotiations on global anti-terror 
        efforts, the Secretary of State should have a full complement 
        of political and career senior advisors, so the Senate should 
        confirm pending nominations to such positions;
            (5) intelligence sharing with our allies could prevent an 
        attack on the United States homeland, so the Senate should 
        confirm pending nominations to intelligence positions of the 
        Department of Defense and in other elements of the intelligence 
        community;
            (6) service members are on the front lines of the fight 
        against terror, so the Senate should confirm pending 
        nominations for promotion in the Armed Forces;
            (7) cutting off the money supply for the Islamic State of 
        Iraq and Syria is a critical part of United States strategy to 
        defeat the Islamic State of Iraq and Syria, so the Senate 
        should confirm pending nominations to positions in the 
        Department of the Treasury with responsibility for disrupting 
        terrorist financing networks; and
            (8) the Senate should confirm the pending nominations to 
        national security positions described in this resolution 
        without further delay.

                       Subtitle B--Combating ISIS

SEC. 111. FINDINGS.

    Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) The terrorist organization known as the Islamic State 
        of Iraq and Syria (ISIS) poses a grave threat to the people and 
        territorial integrity of Iraq and Syria, to regional stability, 
        and to the national security interests of the United States and 
        its allies and partners.
            (2) ISIS holds significant territory in Iraq and Syria and 
        is a growing threat in other countries and has stated its 
        intention to seize more territory and demonstrated the 
        capability to do so.
            (3) ISIS has claimed responsibility for or conducted 
        horrific terrorist attacks, including hostage-taking and 
        killing, in Sousse, Tunisia; Ankara, Turkey; the Sinai in 
        Egypt; Beirut, Lebanon; Paris, France, against a Russian 
        charter plane, and elsewhere.
            (4) ISIS has brutally murdered United States citizens, as 
        well as citizens of many other countries.
            (5) ISIS has stated that it intends to conduct further 
        terrorist attacks internationally, including against the United 
        States, its citizens, and interests.
            (6) ISIS has committed despicable acts of violence and mass 
        executions against Muslims, regardless of sect, who do not 
        subscribe to the depraved, violent, and oppressive ideology of 
        ISIS, and has targeted innocent women and girls with horrific 
        acts of violence, including abduction, enslavement, torture, 
        rape, and forced marriage.
            (7) ISIS has threatened genocide and committed vicious acts 
        of violence against other religious and ethnic minority groups, 
        including Iraqi Christians, Yezidi, and Turkmen populations.
            (8) ISIS finances its operations primarily through looting, 
        smuggling, extortion, oil sales, kidnapping, and human 
        trafficking.
            (9) As a result of advances by ISIS and the civil war in 
        Syria, there are more than 4,000,000 refugees, more than 
        7,500,000 internally displaced people in Syria, and nearly 
        3,200,000 internally displaced people in Iraq.
            (10) President Barack Obama articulated a multidimensional 
        approach in the campaign to counter ISIS, including supporting 
        regional military partners, stopping the flow of foreign 
        fighters, cutting off the access of ISIS to financing, 
        addressing urgent humanitarian needs, and exposing the true 
        nature of ISIS.
            (11) In August 2014, President Obama directed the United 
        States Armed Forces to build and work with a coalition of 
        partner nations to conduct airstrikes in Iraq and Syria as part 
        of the comprehensive strategy to degrade and defeat ISIS.
            (12) Since August 2014, United States and coalition nation 
        aircraft have flown more than 57,000 sorties in support of 
        operations in Iraq and Syria, including airstrikes that have 
        destroyed staging areas, command centers, thousands of armored 
        vehicles, oil and other financing infrastructure, and other 
        facilities and equipment of ISIS.
            (13) Coalition airstrikes have killed at least 100 high-
        value individuals, including a United States strike against 
        Mohamed Emwazi, known as ``Jihadi John''.
            (14) ISIS is under pressure from a coalition of 65 nations, 
        which is conducting air strikes, supporting local forces on the 
        ground, and cutting off financial support to ISIS, thereby 
        evicting ISIS from as much as a quarter of the territory it 
        previously controlled.

SEC. 112. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States condemns the horrific and cowardly 
        attacks by ISIS, particularly the recent attacks in Tunisia, 
        Turkey, Egypt, Lebanon, and France;
            (2) it is critical that the response to ISIS by the United 
        States and the Anti-ISIS coalition, including countries within 
        the region, be multidimensional and consist of coordinated and 
        intensified efforts on intelligence sharing and on the 
        military, civilian, and humanitarian aspects of the current 
        campaign;
            (3) ISIS will only be defeated if there are enduring, 
        inclusive, sustainable political solutions in Iraq and Syria 
        that enable all citizens to realize their legitimate 
        aspirations;
            (4) the only path to a sustainable end to the civil war in 
        Syria is a diplomatic solution that removes Bashar al-Assad;
            (5) the United States and our coalition partners must 
        continue to conduct the campaign of airstrikes against ISIS in 
        both Syria and Iraq to counter ISIS forces and deny it a safe 
        haven;
            (6) no matter how effective the air campaign, defeating 
        ISIS requires reliable, effective, and committed local forces 
        on the ground in Syria and Iraq to clear and hold territory 
        retaken from ISIS, including continuing to work with Kurds in 
        Syria and Iraq, Sunnis in Iraq, and the moderate opposition in 
        Syria;
            (7) the United States and our coalition partners must work 
        with local forces in Iraq and Syria to identify and strike ISIS 
        targets and support local forces in the fight on the ground;
            (8) the United States and our coalition partners must build 
        the capabilities and capacities of our local partner forces in 
        Syria and Iraq and across the region to sustain an effective 
        long-term campaign against ISIS;
            (9) United States and coalition advisors and enablers are 
        critical to improving the ability of local forces to plan, 
        lead, and conduct operations against ISIS;
            (10) the United States and our coalition partners must 
        continue to target the leadership of ISIS, deny it sanctuary 
        and resources to plan, prepare, and execute attacks, and 
        degrade its command and control infrastructure, logistical 
        networks, oil and other revenue networks, and other 
        capabilities;
            (11) the United States and our coalition partners must work 
        to improve the security of the borders of Syria and end the 
        flow of new foreign recruits to ISIS, including working with 
        Turkey and local forces to control the entire Turkey-Syria 
        border;
            (12) the United States and our coalition partners must make 
        sure that the commanders on the ground have the operational 
        flexibility required to execute the mission against ISIS, 
        particularly related to the activities of special operations 
        forces in Syria; and
            (13) appropriate resources and attention should be applied 
        to stopping the spread of ISIS and its apocalyptic ideology to 
        other countries and regions, including North Africa, 
        Afghanistan, and elsewhere.

                  Subtitle C--Combating ISIS Financing

SEC. 121. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON DEFEATING TERRORIST FINANCING BY THE 
              ISLAMIC STATE OF IRAQ AND SYRIA.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States should--
                    (A) strongly support coordinated international 
                efforts by the G-20, the international Financial Action 
                Task Force, the United Nations, and other appropriate 
                international bodies to bolster comprehensive programs 
                to target and combat terrorist financing by ISIS, and 
                to expand international information-sharing related to 
                activities of ISIS;
                    (B) provide necessary funding and support for the 
                international Counter-ISIS Financing Group and ensure 
                robust information-sharing within that Group and among 
                allied countries participating in efforts to combat 
                terrorist financing by ISIS;
                    (C) expand technical assistance, support, and 
                guidance to the governments of countries that are 
                allies of the United States and to foreign financial 
                institutions in such countries to enable those 
                governments and institutions to rapidly expand their 
                capacity--
                            (i) to identify and designate for the 
                        imposition of sanctions persons that are part 
                        of ISIS or that knowingly fund or otherwise 
                        facilitate activities of ISIS;
                            (ii) to identify and disrupt financing 
                        networks used by ISIS and terrorists allied 
                        with ISIS; and
                            (iii) to cut ISIS off completely from the 
                        international financial system;
                    (D) urge governments of countries that are allies 
                of the United States--
                            (i) to aggressively implement programs to 
                        combat terrorist financing by ISIS; and
                            (ii) to prosecute, to the fullest extent of 
                        the laws of those countries, persons that are 
                        part of ISIS or that knowingly fund or 
                        otherwise facilitate activities of ISIS and are 
                        within the jurisdiction of those governments;
                    (E) encourage the governments of all G-20 countries 
                to implement measures with respect to persons 
                designated as part of ISIS, or as persons that 
                knowingly fund or otherwise facilitate activities of 
                ISIS, by the United States as of the date of the 
                enactment of this Act, and to designate promptly and 
                impose sanctions with respect to such persons under 
                their own laws;
                    (F) continue to support efforts by the Government 
                of Iraq--
                            (i) to secure the financial system of Iraq, 
                        including banks, exchange houses, and other 
                        similar entities, from ISIS-related terrorist 
                        financing; and
                            (ii) to dismantle and disrupt ISIS 
                        terrorist financing networks;
                    (G) continue to disrupt efforts by the Government 
                of Syria--
                            (i) to engage in oil purchases or other 
                        financial transactions with ISIS or affiliates 
                        or intermediaries of ISIS; or
                            (ii) to engage in extortion or any other 
                        criminal activity that might benefit ISIS; and
                    (H) seek to expand cooperation among G-20 and 
                countries that are allies of the United States to 
                strengthen the protection of antiquities and prevent 
                ISIS from engaging in the theft, transport, and sale of 
                cultural objects for the purpose of financing 
                terrorism; and
            (2) the Senate should promptly approve, on a bipartisan 
        basis, the nomination, pending on the date of the enactment of 
        this Act, of the Under Secretary for Terrorism and Financial 
        Crimes of the Department of the Treasury, who leads the efforts 
        of the United States to counter terrorist financing by ISIS.

SEC. 122. SANCTIONS WITH RESPECT TO FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS THAT ENGAGE 
              IN CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS THAT BENEFIT THE ISLAMIC STATE OF 
              IRAQ AND SYRIA.

    (a) In General.--The President may prohibit, or impose strict 
conditions on, the opening or maintaining in the United States of a 
correspondent account or a payable-through account by a foreign 
financial institution that the President determines engages in an 
activity described in subsection (b) on or after the date of the 
enactment of this Act.
    (b) Activities Described.--A foreign financial institution engages 
in an activity described in this subsection if the foreign financial 
institution--
            (1) knowingly facilitates a significant transaction or 
        transactions for ISIS;
            (2) knowingly facilitates a significant transaction or 
        transactions of a person that is identified on the specially 
        designated nationals list and the property and interests in 
        property of which are blocked pursuant to the International 
        Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) for 
        acting on behalf of or at the direction of, or being owned or 
        controlled by, ISIS;
            (3) knowingly engages in money laundering to carry out an 
        activity described in paragraph (1) or (2); or
            (4) knowingly facilitates a significant transaction or 
        transactions or provides significant financial services to 
        carry out an activity described in paragraph (1), (2), or (3).
    (c) Penalties.--The penalties provided for in subsections (b) and 
(c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act 
(50 U.S.C. 1705) shall apply to a person that violates, attempts to 
violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of regulations 
prescribed under this section to the same extent that such penalties 
apply to a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection 
(a) of such section 206.
    (d) Procedures for Judicial Review of Classified Information.--
            (1) In general.--If a finding under this section, or a 
        prohibition or condition imposed as a result of any such 
        finding, is based on classified information (as defined in 
        section 1(a) of the Classified Information Procedures Act (18 
        U.S.C. App.)) and a court reviews the finding or the imposition 
        of the prohibition or condition, the President may submit such 
        information to the court ex parte and in camera.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to confer or imply any right to judicial review of 
        any finding under this section or any prohibition or condition 
        imposed as a result of any such finding.
    (e) Implementation.--The President may exercise all authorities 
provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency 
Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out this 
section.
    (f) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Account; correspondent account; payable-through 
        account.--The terms ``account'', ``correspondent account'', and 
        ``payable-through account'' have the meanings given those terms 
        in section 5318A of title 31, United States Code.
            (2) Financial institution.--The term ``financial 
        institution'' means a financial institution specified in 
        subparagraph (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F), (G), (H), (I), (J), 
        (K), (M), (N), (P), (R), (T), (Y), or (Z) of section 5312(a)(2) 
        of title 31, United States Code.
            (3) Foreign financial institution.--The term ``foreign 
        financial institution'' has the meaning given that term in 
        section 1010.605 of title 31, Code of Federal Regulations.
            (4) ISIS.--The term ``ISIS'' means--
                    (A) the entity known as the Islamic State of Iraq 
                and Syria and designated by the Secretary of State as a 
                foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 
                of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1189); 
                or
                    (B) any person--
                            (i) the property or interests in property 
                        of which are blocked pursuant to the 
                        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
                        U.S.C. 1701 et seq.); and
                            (ii) who is identified on the specially 
                        designated nationals list as an agent, 
                        instrumentality, or affiliate of the entity 
                        described in subparagraph (A).
            (5) Money laundering.--The term ``money laundering'' 
        includes the movement of illicit cash or cash equivalent 
        proceeds into, out of, or through a country, or into, out of, 
        or through a financial institution.
            (6) Specially designated nationals list.--The term 
        ``specially designated nationals list'' means the list of 
        specially designated nationals and blocked persons maintained 
        by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of 
        the Treasury.

        Subtitle D--Improving Intelligence Sharing With Partners

SEC. 131. INTELLIGENCE SHARING RELATIONSHIPS.

    (a) Review of Agreements.--Not later than 90 days after the date of 
the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall complete a review of 
each intelligence sharing agreement between the United States and a 
foreign country that--
            (1) is experiencing a significant threat from ISIS; or
            (2) is participating as part of the coalition in activities 
        to degrade and defeat ISIS.
    (b) Intelligence Sharing Related to the Islamic State.--Not later 
than 90 days after the date that the Director of National Intelligence 
completes the reviews required by subsection (a), the Director shall 
develop an intelligence sharing agreement between the United States and 
each foreign country referred to in subsection (a) that--
            (1) applies to the sharing of intelligence related to 
        defensive or offensive measures to be taken with respect to 
        ISIS; and
            (2) provides for the maximum amount of sharing of such 
        intelligence, as appropriate, in a manner that is consistent 
        with the due regard for the protection of intelligence sources 
        and methods, protection of human rights, and the ability of 
        recipient nations to utilize intelligence for targeting 
        purposes consistent with the laws of armed conflict.

       Subtitle E--Combating Terrorist Recruitment and Propaganda

SEC. 141. COUNTERING VIOLENT EXTREMISM.

    (a) In General.--The President, in collaboration with the Secretary 
of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for 
International Development, shall design, implement, and evaluate 
programs to counter violent extremism abroad by--
            (1) strengthening inclusive governance in nation states 
        whose stability and legitimacy are threatened by ISIS and other 
        violent extremist groups;
            (2) creating mechanisms for women, teenagers and other 
        marginalized groups, including potential and former violent 
        extremists, to participate in designing and implementing such 
        programs in coordination with local and national government 
        officials;
            (3) addressing the drivers of grievances that lead to 
        violent extremism, such as corruption, injustice, 
        marginalization, and abuse, through programming and reforms 
        focused on--
                    (A) good governance and anti-corruption;
                    (B) civic engagement;
                    (C) citizen participation in governance;
                    (D) adherence to the rule of law;
                    (E) opportunities for women and girls; and
                    (F) freedom of expression;
            (4) strengthening law enforcement training programs that 
        foster dialogue and engagement between security forces and the 
        public around drivers of grievance; and
            (5) strengthening the capacity of civil society 
        organizations to combat radicalization and other forms of 
        violence in local communities.
    (b) Promoting Youth Leadership.--Programs established under this 
section shall prioritize youth engagement to prevent and counter 
violent extremism, including youth-led messaging campaigns--
            (1) to delegitimize the appeal of violent extremism;
            (2) to engage communities and populations to prevent 
        violent extremist radicalization and recruitment;
            (3) to counter the radicalization of youth;
            (4) to promote rehabilitation and reintegration programs 
        for potential and former violent extremists, including prison-
        based programs; and
            (5) to support long-term efforts to promote tolerance, 
        coexistence and equity.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated--
            (1) for the Department of State, $200,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2017 and $250,000,000 for fiscal year 2018; and
            (2) for the United States Agency for International 
        Development, $100,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 and $125,000,000 
        for fiscal year 2018.
    (d) Assistance for Fragile Nation States.--The Secretary of State 
shall make existing counterterrorism funding available for programs 
that strengthen governance and security in fragile nation states that 
share a border with a country that ISIS or other violent extremists 
have threatened to destabilize or delegitimize.

SEC. 142. COUNTERING ISIS PROPAGANDA.

    (a) Comprehensive Strategy To Counter ISIS Propaganda.--The 
President, in consultation with technology companies, faith-based 
Muslim groups, foreign governments, and international nongovernmental 
organizations, shall develop, as part of the National Strategy for 
Counterterrorism, a comprehensive strategy to counter the propaganda 
disseminated by operatives of ISIS, including through online 
activities.
    (b) Increased Use of Effective Media Tools.--The Under Secretary of 
State for Public Diplomacy, through the Center for Strategic 
Counterterrorism Communications (referred to in this section as the 
``Center''), is authorized to contract to produce media products to 
counter ISIS propaganda.
    (c) Digital Platform Development Team.--The Under Secretary of 
State for Public Diplomacy, through the Center, shall establish a 
digital rapid response team--
            (1) to build and employ digital platforms for the 
        dissemination of information to counter ISIS propaganda; and
            (2) to integrate the platforms described in paragraph (1) 
        with existing technologies supported by the Bureau of 
        International Information Programs and with popular social 
        networking sites.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated to the 
Department of State $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 and $30,000,000 
for fiscal year 2018.

Subtitle F--Improving European Migrant Screening and Stabilizing Jordan 
                              and Lebanon

SEC. 151. WORKING WITH EUROPE TO IMPROVE MIGRANT SCREENING.

    The President, in consultation with the heads of relevant Federal 
agencies, is authorized to provide requested technical and operational 
assistance for the European Union and its member states, including 
assistance--
            (1) to improve border management, including the screening 
        of migrants;
            (2) to increase capacity for refugee reception and 
        processing in transit countries, especially in the Western 
        Balkans; and
            (3) to enhance intelligence sharing with European Union 
        member states and Europol regarding criminal human trafficking, 
        smuggling networks, and foreign fighters identification and 
        movement.

SEC. 152. MIGRANT STABILITY FUND FOR JORDAN AND LEBANON.

    (a) International Disaster Assistance.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated for such purposes, there is 
authorized to be appropriated to the International Disaster Assistance 
account, $525,000,000, which shall remain available until expended, for 
emergency and life-saving assistance, including for the care of 
internally displaced persons within Syria and Iraq and to mitigate the 
outflow of refugees to Lebanon, Jordan, and elsewhere and other 
locations designated by the Secretary of State.
    (b) Migration and Refugee Assistance.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise authorized to be appropriated for such purposes, there is 
authorized to be appropriated to the Migration and Refugee Assistance 
account, $545,000,000, which shall remain available until expended, for 
necessary expenses to respond to the refugee crisis resulting from 
conflict in the Middle East, including for the basic needs of refugees 
in Lebanon, Jordan, and elsewhere as well as the costs associated with 
the resettlement of refugees in the United States and the secure 
screening of refugee applications.
    (c) Emergency Refugee and Migration Assistance.--In addition to 
amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated for such purposes, 
there is authorized to be appropriated to the Emergency Refugee and 
Migration Assistance account, $200,000,000, which shall remain 
available until expended, for unexpected urgent overseas refugee and 
migration needs in accordance with section 2(c) of the Migration and 
Refugee Assistance Act of 1962 (22 U.S.C. 2601(c)).
    (d) Transfer of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of State may transfer 
        amounts authorized to be appropriated by this Act between 
        accounts and to other relevant Federal agencies--
                    (A) to optimize assistance to refugees; and
                    (B) to ensure the secure screening of refugees 
                seeking resettlement in the United States.
            (2) Consultation and notification requirements.--Each 
        transfer authorized under paragraph (1) shall be subject to 
        prior consultation with, and the regular notification 
        procedures of, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate 
        and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.
            (3) Return of unneeded funds.--If the Secretary of State, 
        in consultation with the head of any Federal agency receiving 
        funds transferred pursuant to this subsection, determines that 
        any portion of such funds are no longer needed to meet the 
        purposes of such transfer, the head of such agency shall return 
        such funds to the account from where they originated.

                   TITLE II--PROTECTING THE HOMELAND

             Subtitle A--Reforming the Visa Waiver Program

SEC. 201. SHORT TITLE.

    This subtitle may be cited as the ``Visa Waiver Program Security 
Enhancement Act''.

SEC. 202. ELECTRONIC PASSPORTS REQUIRED FOR VISA WAIVER PROGRAM.

    (a) Requiring the Universal Use of Electronic Passports for Visa 
Waiver Program Countries.--
            (1) In general.--Section 217 of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187) is amended--
                    (A) in subsection (a), by amending paragraph (3) to 
                read as follows:
            ``(3) Machine-readable, electronic passport.--The alien, at 
        the time of application for admission, is in possession of a 
        valid, unexpired, tamper-resistant, machine-readable passport 
        that incorporates biometric and document authentication 
        identifiers that comply with the applicable biometric and 
        document identifying standards established by the International 
        Civil Aviation Organization.''; and
                    (B) in subsection (c)(2), by amending subparagraph 
                (B) to read as follows:
                    ``(B) Machine-readable, electronic passport 
                program.--The government of the country certifies that 
                it issues to its citizens machine-readable, electronic 
                passports that comply with the requirements set forth 
                in subsection (a)(3).''.
            (2) Effective date.--The amendments made by paragraph (1) 
        shall take effect on the date that is 90 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act.
            (3) Certification requirement.--Section 303(c) of the 
        Enhanced Border Security and Visa Entry Reform Act of 2002 (8 
        U.S.C. 1732(c)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``Not later than 
                October 26, 2005, the'' and inserting ``The''; and
                    (B) by amending paragraph (2) to read as follows:
            ``(2) Use of technology standard.--Any alien applying for 
        admission under the visa waiver program established under 
        section 217 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1187) shall present a passport that meets the requirements 
        described in paragraph (1).''.

SEC. 203. INFORMATION SHARING AND COOPERATION BY VISA WAIVER PROGRAM 
              COUNTRIES.

    (a) Required Information Sharing for Visa Waiver Program 
Countries.--
            (1) Information sharing agreements.--
                    (A) Full implementation.--Section 217(c)(2)(F) of 
                the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
                1187(c)(2)(F)) is amended by inserting ``, and fully 
                implements within the time frame determined by the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security,'' after ``country 
                enters into''.
                    (B) Federal air marshal agreement.--Section 217(c) 
                of such Act is amended--
                            (i) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end 
                        the following:
                    ``(G) Federal air marshal agreement.--The 
                government of the country enters into, and complies 
                with, an agreement with the United States to assist in 
                the operation of an effective air marshal program.
                    ``(H) Aviation standards.--The government of the 
                country complies with United States aviation and 
                airport security standards, as determined by the 
                Secretary of Homeland Security.''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (9)--
                                    (I) by striking subparagraph (B); 
                                and
                                    (II) by redesignating subparagraphs 
                                (C) and (D) as subparagraphs (B) and 
                                (C), respectively.
                    (C) Failure to fully implement information sharing 
                agreement.--Section 217(c)(5) of such Act (8 U.S.C. 
                1187(c)(5)) is amended--
                            (i) by redesignating subparagraph (C) as 
                        subparagraph (D); and
                            (ii) by inserting after subparagraph (B) 
                        the following:
                    ``(C) Failure to fully implement information 
                sharing agreement.--
                            ``(i) Determination.--If the Secretary of 
                        Homeland Security, in consultation with the 
                        Secretary of State, determines that the 
                        government of a program country has failed to 
                        fully implement the agreements set forth in 
                        paragraph (2)(F), the country shall be 
                        terminated as a program country.
                            ``(ii) Redesignation.--Not sooner than 90 
                        days after the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
                        in consultation with the Secretary of State, 
                        determines that a country that has been 
                        terminated as a program country pursuant to 
                        clause (i) is now in compliance with the 
                        requirement set forth in paragraph (2)(F), the 
                        Secretary of Homeland Security may redesignate 
                        such country as a program country.''.
            (2) Advance passenger information earlier than 1 hour 
        before arrival.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 217(a)(10) of such Act (8 
                U.S.C. 1187(a)(10)) is amended by striking ``not less 
                than one hour prior to arrival'' and inserting ``as 
                soon as practicable, but not later than 1 hour before 
                arriving''.
                    (B) Technical amendment.--Section 217(c)(3) of such 
                Act is amended, in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                (A), by striking ``the initial period--'' and inserting 
                ``fiscal year 1989:''.
    (b) Factors the Department of Homeland Security Shall Consider for 
Visa Waiver Countries.--
            (1) Consideration of country's capacity to identify 
        dangerous individuals.--Section 217(c)(4) of the Immigration 
        and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(c)(4)), is amended to read 
        as follows:
            ``(4) Required security considerations for program 
        designation and continuation.--In determining whether a country 
        should be designated as a program country or whether a program 
        country should retain its designation as a program country, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider the following:
                    ``(A) Capacity to collect, analyze, and share data 
                concerning dangerous individuals.--Whether the 
                government of the country--
                            ``(i) collects and analyzes the information 
                        described in subsection (a)(10), including 
                        advance passenger information and passenger 
                        name records, and similar information 
                        pertaining to flights not bound for the United 
                        States, to identify potentially dangerous 
                        individuals who may attempt to travel to the 
                        United States; and
                            ``(ii) shares such information and the 
                        results of such analyses with the Government of 
                        the United States.
                    ``(B) Screening of traveler passports.--Whether the 
                government of the country--
                            ``(i) regularly screens passports of air 
                        travelers against INTERPOL's global database of 
                        Stolen and Lost Travel Documents before 
                        allowing such travelers to enter or board a 
                        flight arriving in or departing from that 
                        country, including a flight destined for the 
                        United States; and
                            ``(ii) regularly and promptly shares 
                        information concerning lost or stolen travel 
                        documents with INTERPOL.
                    ``(C) Biometric exchanges.--Whether the government 
                of the country, in addition to meeting the mandatory 
                qualifications set forth in paragraph (2)--
                            ``(i) collects and analyzes biometric and 
                        other information about individuals other than 
                        United States nationals who are applying for 
                        asylum, refugee status, or another form of 
                        nonrefoulment protection in such country; and
                            ``(ii) shares the information and the 
                        results of such analyses with the Government of 
                        the United States.
                    ``(D) Information sharing about foreign terrorist 
                fighters.--Whether the government of the country shares 
                intelligence about foreign fighters with the United 
                States and with multilateral organizations, such as 
                INTERPOL and EUROPOL.''.
            (2) Failure to report stolen passports.--Section 217(f)(5) 
        of such Act is amended by inserting ``frequently and promptly'' 
        before ``reporting the theft''.

SEC. 204. BIOMETRIC SUBMISSION BEFORE ENTRY.

    (a) Demonstration Program for Collection of Biometric 
Information.--
            (1) Initiation.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall initiate a demonstration program to conduct the advance 
        verification of biometric data from a random sample of aliens 
        entering the United States under the visa waiver program 
        established under section 217(a) of the Immigration and 
        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(a)) that considers the factors 
        set out in paragraph (2).
            (2) Factors.--In carrying out the demonstration program 
        initiated under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider--
                    (A) how to verify biometric data through a 
                standardized and reliable process or means by which an 
                applicant under the visa waiver program may submit 
                biometric information with relatively limited expense 
                to the applicant;
                    (B) how to ensure necessary quality of biometric 
                information data verified prior to travel to minimize 
                false positive matches upon an applicant's seeking 
                admission at a United States port of entry;
                    (C) how to verify biometric information from an 
                applicant in a manner that confirms the identity of the 
                applicant and prevents, to the greatest extent 
                practicable, the fraudulent use of a person's identity; 
                and
                    (D) other elements the Secretary determines are 
                necessary to create a scalable and reliable means of 
                biometric information verification for the visa waiver 
                program.
            (3) Completion.--The demonstration program initiated under 
        paragraph (1) shall be completed not later than 15 months after 
        the date of the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 205. VISA WAIVER PROGRAM ADMINISTRATION.

    Section 217(h)(3)(B) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1187(h)(3)(B)) is amended--
            (1) in clause (i), by amending subclause (II) to read as 
        follows:
                                    ``(II) an amount to ensure recovery 
                                of the full costs of providing and 
                                administering the System and 
                                implementing the improvements to the 
                                program provided in the Visa Waiver 
                                Program Security Enhancement Act.''; 
                                and
            (2) by amending clause (ii) to read as follows:
                            ``(ii) Disposition of amounts collected.--
                        Amounts collected under clause (i)(I) shall be 
                        credited to the Travel Promotion Fund 
                        established under subsection (d) of the Trade 
                        Promotion Act of 2009 (22 U.S.C. 2131(d)). 
                        Amounts collected under clause (i)(II) shall be 
                        transferred to the general fund of the Treasury 
                        and made available to pay the costs incurred to 
                        administer the System and the improvements made 
                        by the Visa Waiver Program Security Enhancement 
                        Act. The portion of the fee collected under 
                        clause (i)(II) to recover the costs of 
                        implementing such improvements may only be used 
                        for that purpose.''.

           Subtitle B--Keeping Firearms Away From Terrorists

SEC. 211. CLOSING THE VISA WAIVER PROGRAM GUN LOOPHOLE.

    Section 922 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (d)(5)(B), by inserting ``or pursuant to 
        the visa waiver program established under section 217(a) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(a))'' before the 
        semicolon at the end;
            (2) in subsection (g)(5)(B), by inserting ``or pursuant to 
        the visa waiver program established under section 217(a) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(a))'' before the 
        semicolon at the end; and
            (3) in subsection (y)--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting ``or 
                Pursuant to the Visa Waiver Program'' after ``Visas'';
                    (B) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding 
                subparagraph (A), by striking ``visa,'' and inserting 
                ``visa or pursuant to the visa waiver program 
                established under section 217(a) of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(a)),''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (3)(A), in the matter preceding 
                clause (i), by inserting ``or pursuant to the visa 
                waiver program established under section 217(a) of the 
                Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1187(a))'' 
                after ``visa''.

SEC. 212. CLOSING THE TERRORIST GUN LOOPHOLE.

    (a) Standard for Exercising Attorney General Discretion Regarding 
Transferring Firearms or Issuing Firearms Permits to Dangerous 
Terrorists.--Chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting after section 922 the following:
``Sec. 922A. Attorney General's discretion to deny transfer of a 
              firearm
    ``The Attorney General may deny the transfer of a firearm under 
section 922(t)(1)(B)(ii) of this title if the Attorney General--
            ``(1) determines that the transferee is known (or 
        appropriately suspected) to be or have been engaged in conduct 
        constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to 
        terrorism, or providing material support or resources for 
        terrorism; and
            ``(2) has a reasonable belief that the prospective 
        transferee may use a firearm in connection with terrorism.
``Sec. 922B. Attorney General's discretion regarding applicants for 
              firearm permits which would qualify for the exemption 
              provided under section 922(t)(3)
    ``The Attorney General may determine that--
            ``(1) an applicant for a firearm permit which would qualify 
        for an exemption under section 922(t)(3) is known (or 
        appropriately suspected) to be or have been engaged in conduct 
        constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or related to 
        terrorism, or providing material support or resources for 
        terrorism; and
            ``(2) the Attorney General has a reasonable belief that the 
        applicant may use a firearm in connection with terrorism.'';
            (2) in section 921(a), by adding at the end the following:
            ``(36) The term `terrorism' includes international 
        terrorism and domestic terrorism, as defined in section 2331 of 
        this title.
            ``(37) The term `material support or resources' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 2339A of this title.
            ``(38) The term `responsible person' means an individual 
        who has the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause 
        the direction of the management and policies of the applicant 
        or licensee pertaining to firearms.''; and
            (3) in the table of sections, by inserting after the item 
        relating to section 922 the following:

``922A. Attorney General's discretion to deny transfer of a firearm.
``922B. Attorney General's discretion regarding applicants for firearm 
                            permits which would qualify for the 
                            exemption provided under section 
                            922(t)(3).''.
    (b) Effect of Attorney General Discretionary Denial Through the 
National Instant Criminal Background Check System (NICS) on Firearms 
Permits.--Section 922(t) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1)(B)(ii), by inserting ``or State law, 
        or that the Attorney General has determined to deny the 
        transfer of a firearm pursuant to section 922A of this title'' 
        before the semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (2), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by inserting ``, or if the Attorney General has not 
        determined to deny the transfer of a firearm pursuant to 
        section 922A of this title'' after ``or State law'';
            (3) in paragraph (3)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) in clause (i)--
                                    (I) in subclause (I), by striking 
                                ``and'' at the end; and
                                    (II) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
                    ``(III) was issued after a check of the system 
                established pursuant to paragraph (1);'';
                            (ii) in clause (ii), by inserting ``and'' 
                        after the semicolon; and
                            (iii) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(iii) the State issuing the permit agrees to deny the 
        permit application if such other person is the subject of a 
        determination by the Attorney General pursuant to section 922B 
        of this title;'';
            (4) in paragraph (4), by inserting ``, or if the Attorney 
        General has not determined to deny the transfer of a firearm 
        pursuant to section 922A of this title'' after ``or State 
        law''; and
            (5) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``, or if the Attorney 
        General has determined to deny the transfer of a firearm 
        pursuant to section 922A of this title'' after ``or State 
        law''.
    (c) Unlawful Sale or Disposition of Firearm Based Upon Attorney 
General Discretionary Denial.--Section 922(d) of title 18, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (9), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) has been the subject of a determination by the 
        Attorney General under section 922A, 922B, 923(d)(3), or 923(e) 
        of this title.''.
    (d) Attorney General Discretionary Denial as Prohibitor.--Section 
922(g) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (8), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (9), by striking the comma at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (9) the following:
            ``(10) who has received actual notice of the Attorney 
        General's determination made under section 922A, 922B, 
        923(d)(3) or 923(e) of this title,''.
    (e) Attorney General Discretionary Denial of Federal Firearms 
Licenses.--Section 923(d) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), in the matter preceding subparagraph 
        (A), by striking ``Any'' and inserting ``Except as provided in 
        paragraph (3), any''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(3) The Attorney General may deny a license application if the 
Attorney General determines that the applicant (including any 
responsible person) is known (or appropriately suspected) to be or have 
been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in aid of, or 
related to terrorism, or providing material support or resources for 
terrorism, and the Attorney General has a reasonable belief that the 
applicant may use a firearm in connection with terrorism.''.
    (f) Discretionary Revocation of Federal Firearms Licenses.--Section 
923(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(e)'';
            (2) by striking ``revoke any license'' and inserting the 
        following: ``revoke--
            ``(A) any license'';
            (3) by striking ``. The Attorney General may, after notice 
        and opportunity for hearing, revoke the license'' and inserting 
        the following: ``;
            ``(B) the license''; and
            (4) by striking ``. The Secretary's action'' and inserting 
        the following: ``; or
            ``(C) any license issued under this section if the Attorney 
        General determines that the holder of such license (including 
        any responsible person) is known (or appropriately suspected) 
        to be or have been engaged in conduct constituting, in 
        preparation for, in aid of, or related to terrorism or 
        providing material support or resources for terrorism, and the 
        Attorney General has a reasonable belief that the applicant may 
        use a firearm in connection with terrorism.
    ``(2) The Attorney General's action''.
    (g) Attorney General's Ability To Withhold Information in Firearms 
License Denial and Revocation Suit.--
            (1) In general.--Section 923(f)(1) of title 18, United 
        States Code, is amended by inserting after the first sentence 
        the following: ``However, if the denial or revocation is 
        pursuant to subsection (d)(3) or (e)(1)(C), any information 
        upon which the Attorney General relied for this determination 
        may be withheld from the petitioner, if the Attorney General 
        determines that disclosure of the information would likely 
        compromise national security.''.
            (2) Summaries.--Section 923(f)(3) of title 18, United 
        States Code, is amended by inserting after the third sentence 
        the following: ``With respect to any information withheld from 
        the aggrieved party under paragraph (1), the United States may 
        submit, and the court may rely upon, summaries or redacted 
        versions of documents containing information the disclosure of 
        which the Attorney General has determined would likely 
        compromise national security.''.
    (h) Attorney General's Ability To Withhold Information in Relief 
From Disabilities Lawsuits.--Section 925(c) of title 18, United States 
Code, is amended by inserting after the third sentence the following: 
``If the person is subject to a disability under section 922(g)(10) of 
this title, any information which the Attorney General relied on for 
this determination may be withheld from the applicant if the Attorney 
General determines that disclosure of the information would likely 
compromise national security. In responding to the petition, the United 
States may submit, and the court may rely upon, summaries or redacted 
versions of documents containing information the disclosure of which 
the Attorney General has determined would likely compromise national 
security.''.
    (i) Penalties.--Section 924(k) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (3), by striking the comma at the end and 
        inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) constitutes an act of terrorism, or providing 
        material support or resources for terrorism,''.
    (j) Remedy for Erroneous Denial of Firearm or Firearm Permit 
Exemption.--
            (1) In general.--Section 925A of title 18, United States 
        Code, is amended--
                    (A) in the section heading, by striking ``Remedy 
                for erroneous denial of firearm'' and inserting 
                ``Remedies'';
                    (B) by striking ``Any person denied a firearm 
                pursuant to subsection (s) or (t) of section 922'' and 
                inserting the following:
    ``(a) Except as provided in subsection (b), any person denied a 
firearm pursuant to subsection (t) of section 922 or a firearm permit 
pursuant to a determination made under section 922B''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) In any case in which the Attorney General has denied the 
transfer of a firearm to a prospective transferee pursuant to section 
922A of this title or has made a determination regarding a firearm 
permit applicant pursuant to section 922B of this title, an action 
challenging the determination may be brought against the United States. 
The petition shall be filed not later than 60 days after the petitioner 
has received actual notice of the Attorney General's determination 
under section 922A or 922B of this title. The court shall sustain the 
Attorney General's determination upon a showing by the United States by 
a preponderance of evidence that the Attorney General's determination 
satisfied the requirements of section 922A or 922B, as the case may be. 
To make this showing, the United States may submit, and the court may 
rely upon, summaries or redacted versions of documents containing 
information the disclosure of which the Attorney General has determined 
would likely compromise national security. Upon request of the 
petitioner or the court's own motion, the court may review the full, 
undisclosed documents ex parte and in camera. The court shall determine 
whether the summaries or redacted versions, as the case may be, are 
fair and accurate representations of the underlying documents. The 
court shall not consider the full, undisclosed documents in deciding 
whether the Attorney General's determination satisfies the requirements 
of section 922A or 922B.''.
            (2) Technical and conforming amendment.--The table of 
        sections for chapter 44 of title 18, United States Code, is 
        amended by striking the item relating to section 925A and 
        inserting the following:

``925A. Remedies.''.
    (k) Provision of Grounds Underlying Ineligibility Determination by 
the National Instant Criminal Background Check System.--Section 103 of 
the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act (18 U.S.C. 922 note) is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (f)--
                    (A) by inserting ``or the Attorney General has made 
                a determination regarding an applicant for a firearm 
                permit pursuant to section 922B of title 18, United 
                States Code,'' after ``is ineligible to receive a 
                firearm''; and
                    (B) by inserting ``except any information for which 
                the Attorney General has determined that disclosure 
                would likely compromise national security,'' after 
                ``reasons to the individual,''; and
            (2) in subsection (g)--
                    (A) the first sentence--
                            (i) by inserting ``or if the Attorney 
                        General has made a determination pursuant to 
                        section 922A or 922B of title 18, United States 
                        Code,'' after ``or State law,''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, except any 
                        information for which the Attorney General has 
                        determined that disclosure would likely 
                        compromise national security'' before the 
                        period at the end; and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following: ``Any 
                petition for review of information withheld by the 
                Attorney General under this subsection shall be made in 
                accordance with section 925A of title 18, United States 
                Code.''.
    (l) Unlawful Distribution of Explosives Based Upon Attorney General 
Discretionary Denial.--Section 842(d) of title 18, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (9), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; or''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(10) has received actual notice of the Attorney General's 
        determination made pursuant to subsection (j) or (d)(1)(B) of 
        section 843 of this title.''.
    (m) Attorney General Discretionary Denial as Prohibitor.--Section 
842(i) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (7), by inserting ``; or'' at the end; and
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (7) the following:
            ``(8) who has received actual notice of the Attorney 
        General's determination made pursuant to subsection (j) or 
        (d)(1)(B) of section 843 of this title,''.
    (n) Attorney General Discretionary Denial of Federal Explosives 
Licenses and Permits.--Section 843 of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subsection (b), by striking ``Upon'' and inserting 
        ``Except as provided in subsection (j), upon''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(j) The Attorney General may deny the issuance of a permit or 
license to an applicant if the Attorney General determines that the 
applicant or a responsible person or employee possessor thereof is 
known (or appropriately suspected) to be or have been engaged in 
conduct constituting, in preparation of, in aid of, or related to 
terrorism, or providing material support or resources for terrorism, 
and the Attorney General has a reasonable belief that the person may 
use explosives in connection with terrorism.''.
    (o) Attorney General Discretionary Revocation of Federal Explosives 
Licenses and Permits.--Section 843(d) of title 18, United States Code, 
is amended--
            (1) by inserting ``(1)'' after ``(d)'';
            (2) by striking ``if in the opinion'' and inserting the 
        following: ``if--
            ``(A) in the opinion''; and
            (3) by striking ``. The Secretary's action'' and inserting 
        the following: ``; or
            ``(B) the Attorney General determines that the licensee or 
        holder (or any responsible person or employee possessor 
        thereof) is known (or appropriately suspected) to be or have 
        been engaged in conduct constituting, in preparation for, in 
        aid of, or related to terrorism, or providing material support 
        or resources for terrorism, and that the Attorney General has a 
        reasonable belief that the person may use explosives in 
        connection with terrorism.
    ``(2) The Attorney General's action''.
    (p) Attorney General's Ability To Withhold Information in 
Explosives License and Permit Denial and Revocation Suits.--Section 
843(e) of title 18, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after the first sentence 
        the following: ``However, if the denial or revocation is based 
        upon an Attorney General determination under subsection (j) or 
        (d)(1)(B), any information which the Attorney General relied on 
        for this determination may be withheld from the petitioner if 
        the Attorney General determines that disclosure of the 
        information would likely compromise national security.''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following: 
        ``In responding to any petition for review of a denial or 
        revocation based upon an Attorney General determination under 
        subsection (j) or (d)(1)(B), the United States may submit, and 
        the court may rely upon, summaries or redacted versions of 
        documents containing information the disclosure of which the 
        Attorney General has determined would likely compromise 
        national security.''.
    (q) Ability To Withhold Information in Communications to 
Employers.--Section 843(h)(2) of title 18, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting ``or in subsection 
        (j) of this section (on grounds of terrorism)'' after ``section 
        842(i)''; and
            (2) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``or in subsection (j) of this section,'' 
                after ``section 842(i),''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``, except that 
                any information that the Attorney General relied on for 
                a determination pursuant to subsection (j) may be 
                withheld if the Attorney General concludes that 
                disclosure of the information would likely compromise 
                national security'' after ``determination''.
    (r) Conforming Amendment to Immigration and Nationality Act.--
Section 101(a)(43)(E)(ii) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 
U.S.C. 1101(a)(43)(E)(ii)) is amended by striking ``or (5)'' and 
inserting ``(5), or (10)''.
    (s) Guidelines.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General shall issue 
        guidelines describing the circumstances under which the 
        Attorney General will exercise the authority and make 
        determinations under subsections (d)(1)(B) and (j) of section 
        843 and sections 922A and 922B of title 18, United States Code, 
        as amended by this Act.
            (2) Contents.--The guidelines issued under paragraph (1) 
        shall--
                    (A) provide accountability and a basis for 
                monitoring to ensure that the intended goals for, and 
                expected results of, the grant of authority under 
                subsections (d)(1)(B) and (j) of section 843 and 
                sections 922A and 922B of title 18, United States Code, 
                as amended by this Act, are being achieved; and
                    (B) ensure that terrorist watch list records are 
                used in a manner that safeguards privacy and civil 
                liberties protections, in accordance with requirements 
                outlined in Homeland Security Presidential Directive 11 
                (dated August 27, 2004).

              Subtitle C--Strengthening Aviation Security

SEC. 221. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration.
            (2) TSA.--The term ``TSA'' means the Transportation 
        Security Administration.

 PART I--TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION WORKFORCE TRAINING AND 
                               PROCEDURES

SEC. 226. TRANSPORTATION SECURITY OFFICER TRAINING.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct a review of the 
initial and recurrent training provided to transportation security 
officers who operate airport security checkpoints and conduct baggage 
screening.
    (b) Requirements.--The review under subsection (a) shall include--
            (1) training to identify and respond to evolving terrorism 
        and security threats; and
            (2) an identification of any gaps in current training.
    (c) Comprehensive Training Plan.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall develop a 
        comprehensive plan for training transportation security 
        officers based on the review under subsection (a).
            (2) Requirements.--The training plan shall include--
                    (A) training for new hires;
                    (B) recurrent training for employees, at regular 
                intervals;
                    (C) training for managers;
                    (D) education regarding TSA functions and 
                responsibilities outside the scope of the 
                transportation security officer's own position;
                    (E) education regarding TSA's mission and role in 
                the Federal interagency counter-terrorism efforts;
                    (F) training on the tools and equipment that may be 
                used in security operations; and
                    (G) regular briefings highlighting current threats.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 270 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall report to Congress on 
the progress of implementing the comprehensive training plan developed 
under subsection (b).

                        PART II--ACCESS CONTROLS

SEC. 231. INSIDER THREATS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall conduct a review of 
airport security to identify any insider threat vulnerabilities in 
aviation, and of the programs and practices currently in place to 
mitigate the risk of insider threats to aviation security.
    (b) Requirements.--In conducting the review required by subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall consider--
            (1) available intelligence from domestic and international 
        law enforcement and intelligence agencies;
            (2) a review of vulnerabilities across the national 
        aviation system; and
            (3) possible attack scenarios or adversary pathways that 
        represent the greatest insider threat to aviation security.
    (c) Plan.--Upon completion of the review required by subsection 
(a), the Administrator shall develop a plan to address any identified 
insider threat vulnerabilities, including any recommended changes to 
the programs and practices the Administrator considers necessary to 
successfully address the vulnerabilities.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 30 days after the date the plan under 
subsection (c) is developed, the Administrator shall transmit to the 
Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and 
the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives a 
report detailing the plan.
    (e) Staffing.--If in conducting the review under subsection (a), 
the Administrator determines that additional TSA staffing is required 
to reduce any insider threat risk that an aviation worker may pose to 
airport security, the Administrator shall transmit to Congress a report 
describing the additional TSA staffing needs, including additional 
officers to conduct random aviation worker screening.
    (f) Testing.--The Administrator shall direct the Office of 
Inspection to increase testing to identify insider threat 
vulnerabilities within the entire airport system, including red-team 
and covert testing.
    (g) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsections (e) 
and (f).

SEC. 232. AVIATION WORKERS VETTING.

    (a) TSDB Information.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 30 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Federal Bureau 
        of Investigation, in coordination with the heads of all 
        appropriate agencies, shall make available to the Administrator 
        all names and identifying information from records within the 
        Terrorist Screening Database of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation's Terrorist Screening Center in a manner that 
        will permit the Administrator to conduct such automated vetting 
        as the Administrator determines to be necessary to effectively 
        administer the credential vetting program for individuals with 
        unescorted access to sensitive transportation environments, 
        such as but not limited to secure areas of airports, on board 
        aircraft, or in the vicinity of cargo or property that will be 
        transported by air.
            (2) Permissible uses.--The Administrator is authorized to 
        use the information described in paragraph (1) when determining 
        whether to approve an airport or air carrier to issue an 
        individual credentials, access to a trusted population, or 
        other security privileges.
    (b) Review of Disqualifying Criminal Offenses.--The Administrator 
shall review the existing list of disqualifying criminal offenses for 
aviation workers to determine the applicability of the list and 
potential need for modification in light of current threats.
    (c) Comprehensive Database.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall review the 
        existing database for aviation workers who have been issued 
        identification media by an airport and take appropriate 
        measures to enhance the database to include--
                    (A) for each aviation worker with unescorted access 
                to a secured area--
                            (i) the record of the aviation worker's 
                        background check, including the status and date 
                        it was performed;
                            (ii) a photo or other biometric data the 
                        Administrator determines necessary to improve 
                        aviation security, either from identification 
                        credential or other verified means;
                            (iii) legal name, as shown on an acceptable 
                        Federal or State government issued identity 
                        document;
                            (iv) current address;
                            (v) any instances of misuse or loss of 
                        credentials issued to individuals for 
                        unescorted access to sensitive air 
                        transportation environments; and
                            (vi) if applicable, length of authorization 
                        to work in the United States;
                    (B) the capability to add additional information 
                requirements; and
                    (C) such other categories of information as the 
                Administrator considers necessary to effectively 
                administer the Administration's credential vetting 
                program for individuals with unescorted access to 
                sensitive air transportation environments.
            (2) Database construction.--In enhancing the database 
        information required under paragraph (1), the Administrator may 
        work with Federal agencies, contractors, or other third 
        parties.
            (3) GAO report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the 
        United States shall conduct a review of, and report to Congress 
        on, the progress to implement the database changes required by 
        paragraph (1), including a review of any obstacles to 
        implementation.
    (d) Name Formats.--The Administrator shall communicate clear 
instructions to all airport operators and air carriers regarding the 
recommended or required name format and method of submission for 
background checks and aviation worker vetting for unescorted access to 
sensitive air transportation environments.
    (e) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a 
report detailing any obstacles to the effective vetting of aviation 
workers with, or applying for, unescorted access to sensitive 
transportation environments, including--
            (1) any issues accessing databases maintained by other 
        Federal agencies, including the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        and any other agency that contributes to watch lists;
            (2) incomplete identification information provided by 
        aviation workers or airport operators;
            (3) specific airport operators that consistently fail to 
        report information required under subsection (c)(1) to the TSA; 
        and
            (4) any unnecessary delay in inputting aviation worker data 
        into the database.
    (f) Waiver Process for Denied Credentials.--The Administrator shall 
establish a waiver process for issuing credentials for unescorted 
access to sensitive air transportation environments, such as Security 
Identification Display Area (SIDA) credentials, for an individual found 
to be otherwise ineligible for such credentials. In establishing the 
waiver process, the Administrator shall--
            (1) give consideration to the circumstances of any 
        disqualifying act or offense, restitution made by the 
        individual, Federal and State mitigation remedies, and other 
        factors from which it may be concluded that the individual does 
        not pose a terrorism risk warranting denial of the card; and
            (2) consider the appeals and waiver process established 
        under section 70105(c) of title 46, United States Code.
    (g) Review of Credential Media.--
            (1) In general.--The Administrator shall review available 
        media credentials used for unescorted access to sensitive air 
        transportation environments to determine whether technology is 
        available--
                    (A) to make a meaningful improvement upon existing 
                credentials technology;
                    (B) to strengthen airport security, through 
                biometrics or other technologies;
                    (C) to effectively or more effectively prevent 
                fraudulent replication of credentials; and
                    (D) that is cost-effective.
            (2) Pilot program.--Based upon the findings of the review 
        in paragraph (1), the Administrator may conduct a pilot program 
        to test new access media at airports.
    (h) Real-Time, Continuous Vetting for Criminal History Records 
Check.--The Administrator shall work with the Director of the Federal 
Bureau of Investigation to implement the Rap Back Service from the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation's Next Generation Identification 
program for purposes of vetting individuals with unescorted access to 
sensitive transportation environments.
    (i) Review.--The Administrator may review and update the procedures 
for aviation workers with escorted access to sensitive transportation 
environments.

SEC. 233. INFRASTRUCTURE.

    (a) Grant Program.--To assist airports in reducing the number of 
secure access points for employees to the practical minimum, the 
Secretary of Homeland Security shall create a grant program to assist 
airports in carrying out the necessary construction to address attack 
scenarios or adversary pathways and mitigate the insider threat.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out the grant 
program under subsection (a).

SEC. 234. VISIBLE DETERRENT.

    Section 1303(a) of the Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 
Commission Act of 2007 (6 U.S.C. 1112(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``; and'' and inserting a 
        semicolon;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period and inserting 
        ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) shall require that a VIPR team deployed to an airport 
        conduct operations in the areas to which only individuals 
        issued security credentials have unescorted access.''.

    PART III--TRANSPORTATION SECURITY ADMINISTRATION INNOVATION AND 
                               TECHNOLOGY

SEC. 241. RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator, in coordination with the Under 
Secretary for Science and Technology, and in consultation with the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Energy, and the heads of other 
relevant Federal agencies, shall review existing or ongoing Federal 
research that may contribute to the development of screening tools and 
equipment for TSA's mission.
    (b) Additional Research.--After completing the review under 
paragraph (1), the Administrator and the Under Secretary for Science 
and Technology shall coordinate with the heads of relevant Federal 
research agencies to pursue research that may lead to advances in 
passenger and baggage screening technology.
    (c) Research Universities.--To the extent the TSA is authorized to 
disclose information relating to its threat detection capabilities, the 
Administrator may partner with 1 or more research universities in the 
United States to conduct research into the hardware and software to 
screen passengers and baggage.

SEC. 242. PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator or Under Secretary for Science 
and Technology shall convene a working group of screening technology 
users from the private sector for the purpose of fostering public-
private partnerships.
    (b) Members.--The working group shall include representatives of 
private sector entities, such as major sports leagues and operators of 
large scale resort parks, which have implemented or are investing in 
the development of screening security solutions intended to 
expeditiously screen high volumes of individuals and personal 
belongings.
    (c) Duties.--The focus of the working group shall be to provide 
recommendations to the Administrator--
            (1) to ensure better coordination between the TSA and such 
        private sector entities;
            (2) to enable the TSA to take advantage of new screening 
        technologies developed for the private sector;
            (3) to foster public-private partnership principles; and
            (4) to leverage and maximize the use of private sector 
        capital, whenever appropriate.

SEC. 243. REPORT.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this 
Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, 
Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives a report regarding TSA's 
efforts to encourage public-private cooperation and encourage 
innovative airport security ideas.

   PART IV--IMPROVING INTERNATIONAL COORDINATION TO TRACK TERRORISTS

SEC. 251. COORDINATION WITH INTERNATIONAL AUTHORITIES.

    The Administrator shall--
            (1) encourage maximum coordination with international 
        counterparts to ensure security best practices are shared and 
        implemented to enhance aviation security globally; and
            (2) whenever appropriate, seek to increase the 
        opportunities the TSA has to leverage its knowledge and 
        expertise to promote greater international cooperation in 
        enhancing aviation security globally, including increased 
        information sharing, personnel exchanges, and aviation worker 
        vetting.

SEC. 252. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON COOPERATION TO TRACK TERRORISTS 
              TRAVELING BY AIR.

    It is the sense of Congress that the United States should--
            (1) closely cooperate with the European Union as the 
        European Union develops and implements its new program to store 
        information on passengers traveling on commercial air carriers 
        in and out of the European Union; and
            (2) encourage the dissemination of such information within 
        the European Union and the United States for law enforcement 
        and national security purposes.

      Subtitle D--Strengthening Security of Radiological Materials

SEC. 261. PREVENTING TERRORIST ACCESS TO DOMESTIC RADIOLOGICAL 
              MATERIALS.

    (a) Commercial Licenses.--Section 103 of the Atomic Energy Act of 
1954 (42 U.S.C. 2133) is amended--
            (1) in subsection d., in the third sentence, by inserting 
        ``under a circumstance described in subsection g., or'' after 
        ``within the United States''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``g. In addition to the limitations described in subsection d. and 
the limitations provided at the discretion of the Commission, the 
Commission shall not grant a license to any individual who is--
            ``(1) listed in the terrorist screening database maintained 
        by the Federal Government Terrorist Screening Center of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            ``(2) convicted of any offense under any Federal, State, or 
        local law or ordinance, an element of which is--
                    ``(A) engaging in conduct constituting, in 
                preparation of, in aid of, or related to terrorism;
                    ``(B) providing material support or resources for 
                terrorism; or
                    ``(C) the making of a terrorist threat.
    ``h. The Commission shall suspend immediately any license granted 
under this section if the Commission discovers that the licensee is 
providing unescorted access to any employee who is--
            ``(1) listed in the terrorist screening database maintained 
        by the Federal Government Terrorist Screening Center of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            ``(2) convicted of any offense under any Federal, State, or 
        local law or ordinance, an element of which is--
                    ``(A) engaging in conduct constituting, in 
                preparation of, in aid of, or related to terrorism;
                    ``(B) providing material support or resources for 
                terrorism; or
                    ``(C) the making of a terrorist threat.
    ``i. The Commission may lift the suspension of a license made 
pursuant to subsection h. if--
            ``(1) the licensee has revoked unescorted access privileges 
        to the employee;
            ``(2) the licensee has alerted the appropriate Federal, 
        State, and local law enforcement offices of the provision and 
        revocation of unescorted access to the employee; and
            ``(3) the Commission has conducted a review of the security 
        of the licensee and determined that reinstatement of the 
        licensee would not be inimical to the national security 
        interests of the United States.''.
    (b) Medical Therapy and Research and Development.--Section 104 of 
the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2134) is amended--
            (1) in subsection d., in the third sentence, by inserting 
        ``under a circumstance described in subsection e., or'' after 
        ``within the United States''; and
            (2) by adding at the end the following:
    ``e. In addition to the limitations described in subsection d. and 
the limitations provided at the discretion of the Commission, the 
Commission shall not grant a license to any individual who is--
            ``(1) listed in the terrorist screening database maintained 
        by the Federal Government Terrorist Screening Center of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            ``(2) convicted of any offense under any Federal, State, or 
        local law or ordinance, an element of which is--
                    ``(A) engaging in conduct constituting, in 
                preparation of, in aid of, or related to terrorism;
                    ``(B) providing material support or resources for 
                terrorism; or
                    ``(C) the making of a terrorist threat.
    ``f. The Commission shall suspend immediately any license granted 
under this section if the Commission discovers that the licensee is 
providing unescorted access to any employee who is--
            ``(1) listed in the terrorist screening database maintained 
        by the Federal Government Terrorist Screening Center of the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation; or
            ``(2) convicted of any offense under any Federal, State, or 
        local law or ordinance, an element of which is--
                    ``(A) engaging in conduct constituting, in 
                preparation of, in aid of, or related to terrorism;
                    ``(B) providing material support or resources for 
                terrorism; or
                    ``(C) the making of a terrorist threat.
    ``g. The Commission may lift the suspension of a license made 
pursuant to subsection f. if--
            ``(1) the licensee has revoked unescorted access privileges 
        to the employee;
            ``(2) the licensee has alerted the appropriate Federal, 
        State, and local law enforcement offices of the provision and 
        revocation of unescorted access to the employee; and
            ``(3) the Commission has conducted a review of the security 
        of the licensee and determined that reinstatement of the 
        licensee would not be inimical to the national security 
        interests of the United States.''.

SEC. 262. STRATEGY FOR SECURING HIGH ACTIVITY RADIOLOGICAL SOURCES.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator for Nuclear Security shall--
            (1) in coordination with the Chairman of the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
        develop a strategy to enhance the security of all high activity 
        radiological sources as soon as possible; and
            (2) not later than 120 days after such date of enactment, 
        submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report 
        describing the strategy required by paragraph (1).
    (b) Elements.--The report required by subsection (a)(2) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description of activities of the National Nuclear 
        Security Administration, ongoing as of the date of the 
        enactment of this Act--
                    (A) to secure high activity domestic radiological 
                sources; and
                    (B) to secure radiological materials 
                internationally and to prevent their illicit 
                trafficking as part of the broader Global Nuclear 
                Detection Architecture.
            (2) A list of any gaps in the legal authority of United 
        States Government agencies needed to secure all high activity 
        radiological sources.
            (3) An estimate of the cost of securing all high activity 
        domestic radiological sources.
            (4) A list, in the classified annex authorized by 
        subsection (c), of all high activity domestic radiological 
        sources at sites at which enhanced physical security measures 
        that comply with the requirements of the Office of Global 
        Material Security of the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration are not in effect.
    (c) Form of Report.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be 
submitted in unclassified form and shall include a classified annex.
    (d) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) Appropriate congressional committees.--The term 
        ``appropriate congressional committees'' means--
                    (A) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on 
                Environment and Public Works, and the Committee on 
                Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Armed Services, the Committee 
                on Energy and Commerce, and the Committee on Homeland 
                Security of the House of Representatives.
            (2) High activity domestic radiological material.--The term 
        ``high activity domestic radiological source'' means Category 1 
        or 2 quantities of radiological material, as determined by the 
        Nuclear Regulatory Commission, located at a site in the United 
        States.
            (3) Secure.--The terms ``secure'' and ``security'', with 
        respect to high activity radiological sources, refer to all 
        activities to prevent terrorists from acquiring such sources, 
        including enhanced physical security and tracking measures, 
        removal and disposal of disused sources, replacement of such 
        sources with nonradiological technologies where feasible, and 
        detection of illicit trafficking.

SEC. 263. OUTREACH TO STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES ON 
              RADIOLOGICAL THREATS.

    Section 201(d) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
121(d)) is amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(26)(A) Not later than every 2 years, the Secretary shall 
        submit a written certification to Congress that the field staff 
        of the Department have briefed State and local law enforcement 
        representatives about radiological security threats.
            ``(B) A briefing conducted under subparagraph (A) shall 
        include information on--
                    ``(i) the presence and current security status of 
                all high activity domestic radiological sources housed 
                within the jurisdiction of the law enforcement agency 
                being briefed;
                    ``(ii) the threat that high activity domestic 
                radiological sources could pose to their communities 
                and to the national security of the United States if 
                these sources were lost, stolen or subject to sabotage 
                by criminal or terrorist actors; and
                    ``(iii) guidelines and best practices for 
                mitigating the impact of emergencies involving high 
                activity domestic radiological sources.
            ``(C) The National Nuclear Security Administration, the 
        Nuclear Regulatory Commission, and Federal law enforcement 
        agencies shall provide information to the Department in order 
        for the Secretary to submit the written certification described 
        in subparagraph (A).
            ``(D) A written certification described in subparagraph (A) 
        shall include a report on the activity of the field staff of 
        the Department to brief State and local law enforcement 
        representatives, including, as provided to the field staff of 
        the Department by State and Local law enforcement agencies--
                    ``(i) an aggregation of incidents regarding high 
                activity domestic radiological sources; and
                    ``(ii) information on current activities undertaken 
                to address the vulnerabilities of these high activity 
                domestic radiological sources.
            ``(E) In this paragraph, the term `high activity domestic 
        radiological sources' means category 1 quantity and category 2 
        quantity radiological materials, as determined by the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission.''.

                Subtitle E--Stopping Homegrown Extremism

SEC. 271. AUTHORIZATION OF THE OFFICE FOR COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS OF THE 
              DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Title I of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
U.S.C. 101 et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 104. OFFICE FOR COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS.

    ``(a) Definitions.--In this section--
            ``(1) the term `countering violent extremism' means 
        proactive and relevant actions to counter efforts by extremists 
        to radicalize, recruit, and mobilize followers to violence and 
        to address the conditions that allow for violent extremist 
        recruitment and radicalization; and
            ``(2) the term `violent extremism' means ideologically 
        motivated violence as a method of advancing a cause.
    ``(b) Establishment.--There is in the Department an Office for 
Community Partnerships.
    ``(c) Head of Office.--The Office for Community Partnerships shall 
be headed by an Assistant Secretary for Community Partnerships, who 
shall be designated by the Secretary.
    ``(d) Deputy Assistant Secretary; Assignment of Personnel.--The 
Secretary shall--
            ``(1) designate a career Deputy Assistant Secretary for 
        Community Partnerships; and
            ``(2) assign or hire, as appropriate, permanent staff to 
        the Office for Community Partnerships.
    ``(e) Responsibilities.--The Assistant Secretary for Community 
Partnerships shall be responsible for the following:
            ``(1) Leading the efforts of the Department to counter 
        violent extremism across all the components and offices of the 
        Department that conduct strategic and supportive efforts to 
        counter violent extremism. Such efforts shall include the 
        following:
                    ``(A) Partnering with communities to address 
                vulnerabilities that can be exploited by violent 
                extremists in the United States and explore potential 
                remedies for government and nongovernment institutions.
                    ``(B) Working with civil society groups and 
                communities to counter violent extremist propaganda, 
                messaging, or recruitment.
                    ``(C) In coordination with the Office for Civil 
                Rights and Civil Liberties of the Department, managing 
                the outreach and engagement efforts of the Department 
                directed toward communities at risk for radicalization 
                and recruitment for violent extremist activities.
                    ``(D) Ensuring relevant information, research, and 
                products inform efforts to counter violent extremism.
                    ``(E) Developing and maintaining Departmentwide 
                plans, strategy guiding policies, and programs to 
                counter violent extremism. Such plans shall, at a 
                minimum, address each of the following:
                            ``(i) The Department's plan to leverage new 
                        and existing Internet and other technologies 
                        and social media platforms to improve 
                        nongovernment efforts to counter violent 
                        extremism, as well as the best practices and 
                        lessons learned of other Federal, State, local, 
                        tribal, territorial, and foreign partners 
                        engaged in similar counter-messaging efforts.
                            ``(ii) The Department's countering violent 
                        extremism-related engagement efforts.
                            ``(iii) The use of cooperative agreements 
                        with State, local, tribal, territorial, and 
                        other Federal departments and agencies 
                        responsible for efforts relating to countering 
                        violent extremism.
                    ``(F) Coordinating with the Office for Civil Rights 
                and Civil Liberties of the Department to ensure all of 
                the activities of the Department related to countering 
                violent extremism fully respect the privacy, civil 
                rights, and civil liberties of all persons.
                    ``(G) In coordination with the Under Secretary for 
                Science and Technology and in consultation with the 
                Under Secretary for Intelligence and Analysis, 
                identifying and recommending new research and analysis 
                requirements to ensure the dissemination of information 
                and methods for Federal, State, local, tribal, and 
                territorial countering violent extremism practitioners, 
                officials, law enforcement, and nongovernmental 
                partners to utilize such research and analysis.
                    ``(H) Assessing the methods used by violent 
                extremists to disseminate propaganda and messaging to 
                communities at risk for recruitment by violent 
                extremists.
            ``(2) Developing a digital engagement strategy that expands 
        the outreach efforts of the Department to counter violent 
        extremist messaging by--
                    ``(A) exploring ways to utilize relevant Internet 
                and other technologies and social media platforms; and
                    ``(B) maximizing other resources available to the 
                Department.
            ``(3) Serving as the primary representative of the 
        Department in coordinating countering violent extremism efforts 
        with other Federal departments and agencies and nongovernmental 
        organizations.
            ``(4) Serving as the primary Department-level 
        representative in coordinating with the Department of State on 
        international countering violent extremism issues.
            ``(5) In coordination with the Administrator of the Federal 
        Emergency Management Agency, providing guidance regarding the 
        use of grants made to State, local, and tribal governments 
        under sections 2003 and 2004 under the allowable uses 
        guidelines related to countering violent extremism.
            ``(6) Developing a plan to expand philanthropic support for 
        domestic efforts related to countering violent extremism, 
        including by identifying viable community projects and needs 
        for possible philanthropic support.
            ``(7) Administering the assistance described in subsection 
        (f).
    ``(f) Grants To Counter Violent Extremism.--
            ``(1) In general.--In accordance with this subsection, the 
        Secretary may award grants or cooperative agreements directly 
        to eligible recipients identified in paragraph (2) to support 
        the efforts of local communities in the United States to 
        counter violent extremism.
            ``(2) Eligible recipients.--The Secretary may award 
        competitive grants or cooperative agreements based on need 
        directly to--
                    ``(A) States;
                    ``(B) local governments;
                    ``(C) tribal governments;
                    ``(D) nonprofit organizations; or
                    ``(E) institutions of higher education.
            ``(3) Use of funds.--Each entity receiving a grant or 
        cooperative agreement under this subsection shall use the grant 
        or cooperative agreement for 1 or more of the following 
        purposes:
                    ``(A) To train or exercise for countering violent 
                extremism, including building training or exercise 
                programs designed to improve cultural competency and to 
                ensure that communities, government, and law 
                enforcement receive accurate, intelligence-based 
                information about the dynamics of radicalization to 
                violence.
                    ``(B) To develop, implement, or expand programs or 
                projects with communities to discuss violent extremism 
                or to engage communities that may be targeted by 
                violent extremist radicalization.
                    ``(C) To develop and implement projects that 
                partner with local communities to prevent 
                radicalization to violence.
                    ``(D) To develop and implement a comprehensive 
                model for preventing violent extremism in local 
                communities, including existing initiatives of State or 
                local law enforcement agencies and existing mechanisms 
                for engaging the resources and expertise available from 
                a range of social service providers, such as education 
                administrators, mental health professionals, and 
                religious leaders.
                    ``(E) To educate the community about countering 
                violent extremism, including the promotion of 
                community-based activities to increase the measures 
                taken by the community to counter violent extremism.
                    ``(F) To develop or assist social service programs 
                that address root causes of violent extremism and 
                develop, build, or enhance alternatives for members of 
                local communities that may be targeted by violent 
                extremism.
                    ``(G) To develop or enhance State or local 
                government initiatives that facilitate and build 
                overall capacity to address the threats post by violent 
                extremism.
                    ``(H) To support such other activities, consistent 
                with the purposes of this subsection, as the Secretary 
                determines appropriate.
            ``(4) Grant guidelines.--
                    ``(A) In general.--For each fiscal year, before 
                awarding a grant or cooperative agreement under this 
                subsection, the Secretary shall develop guidelines 
                published in a notice of funding opportunity that 
                describe--
                            ``(i) the process for applying for grants 
                        and cooperative agreements under this 
                        subsection;
                            ``(ii) the criteria that the Secretary will 
                        use for selecting recipients based on the need 
                        demonstrated by the applicant; and
                            ``(iii) the requirements that recipients 
                        must follow when utilizing funds under this 
                        subsection to conduct training and exercises 
                        and otherwise engage local communities 
                        regarding countering violent extremism.
                    ``(B) Considerations.--In developing the 
                requirements under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Secretary 
                shall consider the following:
                            ``(i) Training objectives should be clearly 
                        defined to meet specific countering violent 
                        extremism goals, such as community engagement, 
                        cultural awareness, or community-based 
                        policing.
                            ``(ii) Engaging diverse communities in the 
                        United States to counter violent extremism may 
                        require working with local grassroots community 
                        organizations to develop engagement and 
                        outreach initiatives.
                            ``(iii) Training programs should--
                                    ``(I) be sensitive to 
                                Constitutional values, such as 
                                protecting fundamental civil rights and 
                                civil liberties, and eschew notions of 
                                racial and ethnic profiling; and
                                    ``(II) adhere to the standards and 
                                ethics of the Department, ensuring that 
                                the clearly defined objectives are in 
                                line with the strategies of the 
                                Department to counter violent 
                                extremism.
                            ``(iv) Establishing vetting procedures for 
                        self-selected countering violent extremism 
                        training experts who offer programs that may 
                        claim to counter violent extremism, but serve 
                        to demonize certain individuals or whole cross-
                        sections of a community.
                            ``(v) Providing a review process to 
                        determine if countering violent extremism 
                        training focuses on community engagement and 
                        outreach.
                            ``(vi) Providing support to law enforcement 
                        to enhance knowledge, skills, and abilities to 
                        increase engagement techniques with diverse 
                        communities in the United States.
    ``(g) Annual Report.--Beginning in the first fiscal year beginning 
after the date of enactment of this section, and in each of the next 5 
fiscal years, the Assistant Secretary for Community Partnerships shall 
submit to Congress an annual report on the Office for Community 
Partnerships, which shall include--
            ``(1) a description of the status of the programs and 
        policies of the Department for countering violent extremism in 
        the United States;
            ``(2) a description of the efforts of the Office for 
        Community Partnerships to cooperate with and provide assistance 
        to other Federal departments and agencies;
            ``(3) qualitative and quantitative metrics for evaluating 
        the success of such programs and policies and the steps taken 
        to evaluate the success of such programs and policies; and
            ``(4) an accounting of--
                    ``(A) grants awarded by the Department to counter 
                violent extremism; and
                    ``(B) all training specifically aimed at countering 
                violent extremism sponsored by the Department.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of contents in 
section 1(b) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (Public Law 107-296; 
116 Stat. 2135) is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 103 the following:

``Sec. 104. Office for Community Partnerships.''.

SEC. 272. RESEARCH AND EVALUATION PROGRAM FOR DOMESTIC RADICALIZATION.

    (a) In General.--The Attorney General, acting through the Office of 
Justice Programs, may engage in research and evaluation activities, 
including awarding grants to units of local government, nonprofit 
organizations, and institutions of higher education (as defined in 
section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 1002)), to 
identify causes of violent extremism and related phenomena and advance 
evidence-based strategies for effective prevention and intervention.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $4,000,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2016 through 2019.

 Subtitle F--Comprehensive Independent Study of National Cryptography 
                                 Policy

SEC. 281. COMPREHENSIVE INDEPENDENT STUDY OF NATIONAL CRYPTOGRAPHY 
              POLICY.

    (a) Study by National Research Council.--Not later than 90 days 
after the date of the enactment of this Act, the National Research 
Council shall commence a comprehensive study on cryptographic 
technologies and national cryptography policy.
    (b) Matters To Be Assessed in Study.--The study required under 
subsection (a) shall--
            (1) assess current and future development in encryption 
        technology, including how such technology is likely to be 
        deployed by both United States and international industries;
            (2) assess the effect of cryptographic technologies on--
                    (A) national security interests of the United 
                States Government;
                    (B) law enforcement interests of the United States 
                Government;
                    (C) commercial interests of United States industry;
                    (D) privacy interests of United States citizens; 
                and
                    (E) activities of the United States Government to 
                promote human rights and Internet freedom; and
            (3) consider the conclusions and recommendations of the 
        report issued by the National Research Council in 1996 entitled 
        ``Cryptography's Role in Securing the Information Society''.
    (c) Cooperation With Study.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of National Intelligence, the 
        Attorney General, the Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of 
        Commerce, and the Secretary of State shall direct all 
        appropriate departments and agencies to cooperate fully with 
        the National Research Council in its activities in carrying out 
        the study required under subsection (a).
            (2) National research council.--The National Research 
        Council shall cooperate with United States entities that have 
        an interest in encryption policy, including United States 
        industry and nonprofit organizations.
    (d) Report.--The National Research Council shall complete the study 
and submit to the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on 
Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the Committee on Foreign 
Relations, and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate and 
to the Committee on the Judiciary, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, 
the Committee on Energy and Commerce, and the Permanent Select 
Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives, a report on 
the study within approximately two years after full processing of 
security clearances under subsection (e). The report on the study shall 
set forth the Council's findings and conclusions and the 
recommendations of the Council for improvements in cryptography policy 
and procedures. The report shall be submitted in unclassified form, 
with classified annexes as necessary.
    (e) Expedited Processing of Security Clearances for Study.--For the 
purpose of facilitating the commencement of the study under this 
section, the appropriate departments, agencies, and elements of the 
executive branch shall expedite to the fullest degree possible the 
processing of security clearances that are necessary for the National 
Research Council to conduct the study required under subsection (a).

                  Subtitle G--Law Enforcement Training

SEC. 291. LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING FOR ACTIVE SHOOTER INCIDENTS.

    Section 2006(a)(2) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 
607(a)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating subparagraphs (E) through (I) as 
        subparagraphs (F) through (J), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new 
        subparagraph:
                    ``(E) training exercises to enhance preparedness 
                for and response to active shooter incidents and 
                security events at public locations;''.

SEC. 292. ACTIVE SHOOTER INCIDENT RESPONSE ASSISTANCE.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, in 
consultation with the Attorney General and other Federal agencies as 
appropriate, provide technical assistance to State, local, tribal, 
territorial, private sector, and nongovernmental partners for the 
development of response plans for active shooter incidents in publicly 
accessible spaces, including facilities that have been identified by 
the Department of Homeland Security as potentially vulnerable targets.
    (b) Types of Plans.--The response plans developed under subsection 
(a) may include, but are not limited to, the following elements:
            (1) A strategy for evacuating and providing care to persons 
        inside the publicly accessible space, with consideration given 
        to the needs of persons with disabilities.
            (2) A plan for establishing a unified command, including 
        identification of staging areas for law enforcement and fire 
        response.
            (3) A schedule for regular testing of communications 
        equipment used to receive emergency calls.
            (4) An evaluation of how emergency calls placed by persons 
        inside the publicly accessible space will reach police in an 
        expeditious manner.
            (5) A practiced method and plan to communicate with 
        occupants of the publicly accessible space.
            (6) A practiced method and plan to communicate with the 
        surrounding community regarding the incident and the needs of 
        Federal, State, and local officials.
            (7) A plan for coordinating with volunteer organizations to 
        expedite assistance for victims.
            (8) To the extent practicable, a projected maximum time 
        frame for law enforcement response to active shooters, acts of 
        terrorism, and incidents that target the publicly accessible 
        space.
            (9) A schedule for joint exercises and training.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit 
to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the 
Senate, the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Committee on 
Homeland Security of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on 
the Judiciary of the House of Representatives a report on findings 
resulting from technical assistance provided under subsection (a), 
including an analysis of the level of preparedness to respond to active 
shooter incidents in publicly accessible spaces.
    (d) Best Practices.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with the Attorney General, shall--
            (1) identify best practices for security incident planning, 
        management, and training for responding to active shooter 
        incidents in publicly accessible spaces; and
            (2) establish a mechanism through which to share such best 
        practices with State, local, tribal, territorial, private 
        sector, and nongovernmental partners.

SEC. 293. GRANTS TO STATE AND LOCAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES FOR 
              ANTITERRORISM TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--The Attorney General may award grants to develop 
and implement antiterrorism training and technical assistance programs 
for State, local, and tribal law enforcement.
    (b) Use of Grant Amounts.--A grant awarded under subsection (a) may 
be used--
            (1) to provide specialized antiterrorism detection, 
        investigation, and interdiction training and related services 
        to State, local, and tribal law enforcement agencies and 
        prosecution authorities, which may include workshops, on-site 
        and online training courses, joint training and activities with 
        and focusing on community stakeholders and partnerships, 
        educational materials and resources, or other training means as 
        necessary; and
            (2) to identify antiterrorism-related training needs at the 
        State, local, and tribal level and conduct customized training 
        programs to address those needs.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each fiscal year.
                                 <all>
