[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3201 Introduced in House (IH)]

114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 3201

To support the integration of immigrants to the United States into the 
 economic, social, cultural, and civic life of their local communities 
                and the Nation, and for other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                             July 23, 2015

    Mr. Cardenas (for himself and Ms. Ros-Lehtinen) introduced the 
 following bill; which was referred to the Committee on the Judiciary, 
and in addition to the Committee on Education and the Workforce, for a 
 period to be subsequently determined by the Speaker, in each case for 
consideration of such provisions as fall within the jurisdiction of the 
                          committee concerned

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To support the integration of immigrants to the United States into the 
 economic, social, cultural, and civic life of their local communities 
                and the Nation, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``New American Success Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Findings and declaration of policy.
                            TITLE I--GRANTS

Sec. 101. Initial Entry, Adjustment, and Citizenship Assistance Grants.
Sec. 102. Integration Success Grants.
Sec. 103. Integration Success Fund.
                  TITLE II--ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNING

Sec. 201. Waiver of English requirement for senior new Americans.

SEC. 3. FINDINGS AND DECLARATION OF POLICY.

    (a) Findings.--Congress makes the following findings:
            (1) According to the Migration Policy Institute, there are 
        13,400,000 non-citizen residents in the United States with 
        limited proficiency in English.
            (2) According to the Department of Homeland Security, 
        approximately 1,100,000 legal immigrants enter the country 
        annually. About half of these legal immigrants lack full 
        proficiency in English.
            (3) According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, more than 
        two-thirds of the foreign-born population does not have a 
        postsecondary degree, and foreign-born adults are three times 
        more likely to lack a high school diploma or equivalent than 
        native-born adults.
            (4) According to the Bureau of Labor Statistics, 19 of the 
        30 fastest growing occupations require workers with some form 
        of postsecondary education or training.
            (5) These statistics suggest that a lack of English 
        proficiency and limited education serve as serious impediments 
        to labor market success for immigrants.
            (6) A century ago, during the last great wave of 
        immigration to this country, the public and private sectors 
        promoted the integration of newcomers through the Settlement 
        House movement, the founding of the modern public library 
        system, the establishment of universal public education.
            (7) Although currently dozens of Federal and State programs 
        support, and thousands of government agencies and nonprofit 
        organizations operate, programs that teach English, promote 
        acquisition of workforce skills, provide citizenship 
        assistance, and otherwise promote the integration of immigrants 
        and their children, such programs are often not coordinated or 
        aligned, limiting the capacity of such programs to identify and 
        test promising practices, leverage resources, or bring 
        effective interventions to scale.
            (8) It is in the national interest to facilitate the rapid 
        acquisition of English language skills by immigrants to the 
        United States and to otherwise promote the integration of 
        immigrants and their children into the mainstream of our 
        economy and society.
            (9) Empowering immigrants and their family members to 
        effectively integrate into the mainstream of the economic, 
        social, cultural, and civic life of their local communities and 
        the Nation as a whole will ensure that United States 
        immigration policies result in more productive and competitive 
        local economies and more cohesive and harmonious communities.
            (10) Data, policies, and programs relevant to immigrant 
        integration crosscut the responsibilities of numerous Federal 
        agencies as well as those of State and local governments and 
        nongovernmental actors.
            (11) The overlapping nature of integration issues and the 
        lack of coordination of immigration policies and programs make 
        it difficult for the President and Congress to understand and 
        respond to pressing integration challenges and opportunities.
            (12) Improved coordination of integration goals, policies, 
        and programs across sectors and levels of government would 
        greatly enhance the ability of the Federal Government to create 
        and maintain an immigration system that is more suited to 
        modern times and benefits the interests of the Federal 
        Government, communities with growing immigrant populations, as 
        well as immigrants and their family members.
    (b) Declaration of Policy.--It is the policy of the United States 
to--
            (1) promote the civic, linguistic, and economic integration 
        of immigrants and their young children into the United States;
            (2) establish national goals for integrating immigrants and 
        their young children into the United States, and measure the 
        degree to which such goals are met;
            (3) assess and coordinate Federal policies, regulations, 
        and programs related to the integration of immigrants, 
        including an assessment of Federal agency jurisdiction and 
        budget concerns;
            (4) consult with State and local governments on integration 
        challenges and opportunities for the purpose of improving 
        Federal integration policy and program efforts;
            (5) track the performance of Federal, State, and local 
        integration initiatives, including measures of reach, 
        effectiveness, and cost; and
            (6) engage stakeholders at different government and 
        nongovernment levels to identify integration opportunities and 
        challenges.

                            TITLE I--GRANTS

SEC. 101. INITIAL ENTRY, ADJUSTMENT, AND CITIZENSHIP ASSISTANCE GRANTS.

    (a) Authorization.--The Secretary of Homeland Security shall award 
Initial Entry, Adjustment, and Citizenship Assistance grants to 
eligible entities.
    (b) Eligibility.--An entity eligible to receive a grant under this 
section is a unit of local government, community-based organization, or 
public or private nonprofit organization--
            (1) that provides direct assistance to immigrants to the 
        United States; and
            (2) that submits to the Secretary of Homeland Security an 
        application at such time, in such manner, and containing such 
        information as such Secretary may reasonably require.
    (c) Use of Funds.--
            (1) In general.--Funds awarded under this section may be 
        used to provide to an eligible non-citizen assistance relating 
        to the immigration status of such non-citizen, or related 
        services. Such assistance may include--
                    (A) screening to assess the eligibility of a 
                prospective applicant seeking a change in immigration 
                status;
                    (B) completing immigration applications;
                    (C) gathering proof of identification, employment, 
                residence, and tax payment;
                    (D) gathering proof of relationships to eligible 
                family members;
                    (E) applying for any waivers for which an applicant 
                and qualifying family members may be eligible;
                    (F) advising an applicant on the rights and 
                responsibilities of United States citizenship; and
                    (G) instruction--
                            (i) on the rights and responsibilities of 
                        United States citizenship;
                            (ii) in civics and civics-based English as 
                        a second language; and
                            (iii) in applying for United States 
                        citizenship.
            (2) Immigrants eligible for assistance.--A non-citizen is 
        eligible to receive the assistance described in paragraph (1) 
        if such non-citizen is--
                    (A) seeking to become a permanent resident or 
                naturalized citizen; or
                    (B) seeking relief from removal in order lawfully 
                to remain in the United States.
    (d) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, priority 
shall be given to--
            (1) entities that demonstrate intent to use grant funds to 
        serve individuals living in a State with a foreign-born 
        population of not less than 5 percent that has experienced an 
        increase that is higher than the national average in the 
        population of non-citizen residents during the most recent 10-
        year period, based on data compiled by the Office of 
        Immigration Statistics or the United States Census Bureau, or 
        units of local government located within such State; or
            (2) entities that demonstrate intent to use grant funds to 
        serve individuals living in any of the 10 States with the 
        highest number of non-citizen residents, based on data compiled 
        by the Office of Immigration Statistics or the United States 
        Census Bureau, or units of local government located within such 
        State.
    (e) Certification.--In order to receive a payment under this 
section, a participating entity shall submit to the Secretary a 
certification that the proposed uses of grant funds by the entity are 
consistent with this section and meet all necessary criteria determined 
by the Secretary.
    (f) Annual Report and Evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the 
end of each fiscal year for which an entity receives grant funds under 
this section, the entity shall submit to the Secretary of Homeland 
Security the following:
            (1) A report that describes--
                    (A) the activities undertaken by the entity that 
                were funded entirely or partially by the grant funds;
                    (B) the geographic area or areas served by the 
                grant funds;
                    (C) an estimate of the number of non-citizens 
                living in the jurisdiction or service area of the 
                entity, which demonstrates that the entity made a 
                reasonable effort to determine such number;
                    (D) the number of non-citizens receiving assistance 
                that was funded entirely or partially by grant funds 
                received by the entity; and
                    (E) the primary languages spoken in the 
                jurisdiction or service area of the entity.
            (2) An evaluation of any program of the entity using grant 
        funds under this section, including an assessment of--
                    (A) the effectiveness of such program and 
                recommendations for improving the program;
                    (B) the future needs of immigrants to the United 
                States; and
                    (C) the future needs of States and units of local 
                government related to immigrant integration.
    (g) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each 
of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (h) Effective Period.--This section shall be in effect for a period 
of 10 fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018.

SEC. 102. INTEGRATION SUCCESS GRANTS.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--The Secretary of Homeland Security may 
provide grants on a competitive basis to improve the economic, 
linguistic, and civic integration of immigrants and their children.
    (b) Eligibility.--An entity eligible to receive a grant under this 
section is a State or a unit of local government that submits to the 
Secretary an application at such time, in such manner, and containing 
such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, which may 
include--
            (1) a proposal outlining the methods the entity intends to 
        use to effectively carry out the activities funded by the 
        grant;
            (2) a sociodemographic profile of non-citizens living 
        within the jurisdiction or service area of the entity;
            (3) a description of opportunities and challenges in 
        improving the economic, linguistic, and civic integration of 
        immigrants; and
            (4) a comprehensive plan to improve the coordination of 
        relevant immigrant integration services.
    (c) Use of Funds.--An entity awarded a grant under this section may 
use the grant funds--
            (1) to expand access to, and improve the quality of, 
        programs supporting the economic advancement of immigrants in 
        areas that include financial literacy, small business 
        development, employment navigation, and training opportunities, 
        including cultural competency training for State, county, and 
        local government officials that provide direct services to 
        immigrants and their families;
            (2) to expand programs that provide basic adult education 
        and contextualized English language skills that improve the 
        literacy, numeracy, workforce skills, and educational 
        attainment of immigrants over the age of 18;
            (3) to expand access to programs that assist immigrants in 
        learning English, obtaining recognized postsecondary 
        credentials or employment, or in building measurable skills to 
        lead to the attainment of an industry-recognized credential or 
        certificate; and
            (4) to educate immigrants about United States history, 
        civics, citizenship rights and responsibilities, democracy, 
        opportunities to engage in the civic life of their community, 
        unit of local government, and State, and the navigation of 
        local systems that support the economic, linguistic, and civic 
        integration of individuals and families.
    (d) Priority.--In awarding grants under this section, priority 
shall be given to--
            (1) an entity that uses not less than ten percent of 
        matching funds from non-Federal sources;
            (2) an entity that collaborates with at least one public or 
        private entity to carry out the comprehensive plan referred to 
        under subsection (b)(4); and
            (3) a State--
                    (A) that has a foreign born population of not less 
                than 5 percent and that has experienced an increase in 
                non-citizen residents that is higher than the national 
                average during the most recent 10-year period, based on 
                data compiled by the Office of Immigration Statistics 
                or the United States Census Bureau, or a unit of local 
                government located within such State; or
                    (B) that is one of the 10 States with the highest 
                number of non-citizen residents, based on data compiled 
                by the Office of Immigration Statistics or the United 
                States Census Bureau, or a unit of local government 
                located within such State.
    (e) Certification.--In order to receive a payment under this 
section, a participating entity shall provide the Secretary with a 
certification that the proposed uses of grant funds by the entity are 
consistent with this section and meet all necessary criteria determined 
by the Secretary.
    (f) Annual Report and Evaluation.--Not later than 90 days after the 
end of each fiscal year for which an entity receives a grant under this 
section, such entity shall submit to the Secretary the following:
            (1) A report that describes--
                    (A) the activities undertaken by the entity;
                    (B) the geographic area or areas served by the 
                grant funds; and
                    (C) a description of the sociodemographic 
                characteristics of individuals served by the grant 
                funds.
            (2) An evaluation of any program of the entity that 
        receives grant funds, including an assessment of--
                    (A) the effectiveness of such program and 
                recommendations for improving the program;
                    (B) the future needs of immigrants to the United 
                States; and
                    (C) the future needs of States and units of local 
                government related to immigrant integration.
    (g) State Defined.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each 
of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of 
Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, 
and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
    (h) Effective Period.--This section shall be in effect for a period 
of 10 fiscal years beginning with fiscal year 2018.

SEC. 103. INTEGRATION SUCCESS FUND.

    (a) In General.--There is established within the general fund of 
the Treasury of the United States a separate account which shall be 
known as the ``Integration Success Fund''. Twenty percent of the 
amounts deposited into the Integration Success Fund shall remain 
available until expended to carry out section 101, and 80 percent of 
the amounts deposited into such fund shall remain available until 
expended to carry out section 102.
    (b) Gifts, Bequests, and Devises.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security may solicit, accept, use, and dispose of gifts, bequests, or 
devises of services or property, both real and personal, for the 
purpose of awarding grants under section 101, and 80 percent of the 
amounts deposited into such fund shall remain available until expended 
to carry out section 102. Gifts, bequests, or devises of money and 
proceeds from sales of other property received as gifts, bequests, or 
devises shall be deposited in the Integration Success Fund established 
by subsection (a) and shall be available for disbursement to eligible 
entities in accordance with this title.

                  TITLE II--ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEARNING

SEC. 201. WAIVER OF ENGLISH REQUIREMENT FOR SENIOR NEW AMERICANS.

    Section 312 of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1423) 
is amended by striking subsection (b) and inserting the following:
    ``(b) The requirements under subsection (a) shall not apply to any 
person who--
            ``(1) is unable to comply with such requirements because of 
        physical or mental disability, including developmental or 
        intellectual disability; or
            ``(2) on the date on which the person's application for 
        naturalization is filed under section 334--
                    ``(A) is older than 65 years of age; and
                    ``(B) has been living in the United States for 
                periods totaling at least 5 years after being lawfully 
                admitted for permanent residence.
    ``(c) The requirement under subsection (a)(1) shall not apply to 
any person who, on the date on which the person's application for 
naturalization is filed under section 334--
            ``(1) is older than 50 years of age and has been living in 
        the United States for periods totaling at least 20 years after 
        being lawfully admitted for permanent residence;
            ``(2) is older than 55 years of age and has been living in 
        the United States for periods totaling at least 15 years after 
        being lawfully admitted for permanent residence; or
            ``(3) is older than 60 years of age and has been living in 
        the United States for periods totaling at least 10 years after 
        being lawfully admitted for permanent residence.
    ``(d) The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive, on a case-by-
case basis, the requirement under subsection (a)(2) on behalf of any 
person who, on the date on which the person's application for 
naturalization is filed under section 334--
            ``(1) is older than 60 years of age; and
            ``(2) has been living in the United States for periods 
        totaling at least 10 years after being lawfully admitted for 
        permanent residence.''.
                                 <all>
