[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 412 Engrossed in House (EH)]

H. Res. 412

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                    September 10, 2015.
    Resolved, That upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order without 
intervention of any point of order to consider in the House the resolution (H. 
Res. 411) finding that the President has not complied with section 2 of the Iran 
Nuclear Agreement Review Act of 2015. The resolution shall be considered as 
read. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the resolution and 
preamble to adoption without intervening motion or demand for division of the 
question except two hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair 
of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Minority Leader or their respective 
designees.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3461) to approve the Joint Comprehensive Plan of 
Action, signed at Vienna on July 14, 2015, relating to the nuclear program of 
Iran. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill 
shall be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill 
are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) 
three hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair of the 
Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Minority Leader or their respective 
designees; and (2) one motion to recommit.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 3460) to suspend until January 21, 2017, the 
authority of the President to waive, suspend, reduce, provide relief from, or 
otherwise limit the application of sanctions pursuant to an agreement related to 
the nuclear program of Iran. All points of order against consideration of the 
bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order 
against provisions in the bill are waived. The previous question shall be 
considered as ordered on the bill and on any amendment thereto to final passage 
without intervening motion except: (1) two hours of debate, with 30 minutes 
controlled by the chair of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or his designee, 30 
minutes controlled by the chair of the Committee on Ways and Means or his 
designee, and one hour controlled by the Minority Leader or her designee; and 
(2) one motion to recommit.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
