[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 526 Engrossed in House (EH)]

<DOC>
H. Res. 526

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                     November 17, 2015.
    Resolved, That at any time after adoption of this resolution the Speaker 
may, pursuant to clause 2(b) of rule XVIII, declare the House resolved into the 
Committee of the Whole House on the state of the Union for consideration of the 
bill (H.R. 1737) to nullify certain guidance of the Bureau of Consumer Financial 
Protection and to provide requirements for guidance issued by the Bureau with 
respect to indirect auto lending. The first reading of the bill shall be 
dispensed with. All points of order against consideration of the bill are 
waived. General debate shall be confined to the bill and shall not exceed one 
hour equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of 
the Committee on Financial Services. After general debate the bill shall be 
considered for amendment under the five-minute rule. The bill shall be 
considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill are 
waived. No amendment to the bill shall be in order except those printed in the 
report of the Committee on Rules accompanying this resolution. Each such 
amendment may be offered only in the order printed in the report, may be offered 
only by a Member designated in the report, shall be considered as read, shall be 
debatable for the time specified in the report equally divided and controlled by 
the proponent and an opponent, shall not be subject to amendment, and shall not 
be subject to a demand for division of the question in the House or in the 
Committee of the Whole. All points of order against such amendments are waived. 
At the conclusion of consideration of the bill for amendment the Committee shall 
rise and report the bill to the House with such amendments as may have been 
adopted. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill and 
amendments thereto to final passage without intervening motion except one motion 
to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 2.  Upon adoption of this resolution it shall be in order to consider 
in the House the bill (H.R. 511) to clarify the rights of Indians and Indian 
tribes on Indian lands under the National Labor Relations Act. All points of 
order against consideration of the bill are waived. The amendment in the nature 
of a substitute recommended by the Committee on Education and the Workforce now 
printed in the bill shall be considered as adopted. The bill, as amended, shall 
be considered as read. All points of order against provisions in the bill, as 
amended, are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
bill, as amended, and on any further amendment thereto, to final passage without 
intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled 
by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Education and the 
Workforce; and (2) one motion to recommit with or without instructions.
    Sec. 3.  Upon adoption of this resolution--
     (a) the House shall be considered to have: (1) taken from the Speaker's 
table the bill (S. 1177) to reauthorize the Elementary and Secondary Education 
Act of 1965 to ensure that every child achieves; (2) stricken all after the 
enacting clause of such bill and inserted in lieu thereof the provisions of H.R. 
5, as passed by the House; and (3) passed the Senate bill as so amended; and
    (b) it shall be in order for the chair of the Committee on Education and the 
Workforce or his designee to move that the House insist on its amendment to S. 
1177 and request a conference with the Senate thereon.
    Sec. 4.  In the engrossment of H.R. 3762, the Clerk shall strike title I and 
redesignate the subsequent titles accordingly.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
