[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2835 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.2835

                     One Hundred Fourteenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE FIRST SESSION

          Begun and held at the City of Washington on Tuesday,
           the sixth day of January, two thousand and fifteen


                                 An Act


 
To actively recruit members of the Armed Forces who are separating from 
  military service to serve as Customs and Border Protection officers.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Border Jobs for Veterans Act of 
2015''.
SEC. 2. FINDINGS.
    Congress finds the following:
        (1) Customs and Border Protection officers at United States 
    ports of entry carry out critical law enforcement duties associated 
    with screening foreign visitors, returning United States citizens, 
    and imported cargo entering the United States.
        (2) It is in the national interest for United States ports of 
    entry to be adequately staffed with Customs and Border Protection 
    officers in a timely fashion, including meeting the congressionally 
    funded staffing target of 23,775 officers for fiscal year 2015.
        (3) An estimated 250,000 to 300,000 members of the Armed Forces 
    separate from military service every year.
        (4) Recruiting efforts and expedited hiring procedures must be 
    enhanced to ensure that individuals separating from military 
    service are aware of, and partake in, opportunities to fill vacant 
    Customs and Border Protection officer positions.
SEC. 3. EXPEDITED HIRING OF APPROPRIATE SEPARATING SERVICE MEMBERS.
    The Secretary of Homeland Security shall consider the expedited 
hiring of qualified candidates who have the ability to perform the 
essential functions of the position of a Customs and Border Protection 
officer and who are eligible for a veterans recruitment appointment 
authorized under section 4214 of title 38, United States Code.
SEC. 4. ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING PROGRAMS TO RECRUIT SERVICE MEMBERS 
SEPARATING FROM MILITARY SERVICE FOR CUSTOMS AND BORDER PROTECTION 
OFFICER VACANCIES.
    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with the Secretary of Defense, and acting through existing 
programs, authorities, and agreements, where applicable, shall enhance 
the efforts of the Department of Homeland Security to recruit members 
of the Armed Forces who are separating from military service to serve 
as Customs and Border Protection officers.
    (b) Elements.--The enhanced recruiting efforts under subsection (a) 
shall--
        (1) include Customs and Border Protection officer opportunities 
    in relevant job assistance efforts under the Transition Assistance 
    Program;
        (2) place U.S. Customs and Border Protection officials or other 
    relevant Department of Homeland Security officials at recruiting 
    events and jobs fairs involving members of the Armed Forces who are 
    separating from military service;
        (3) provide opportunities for local U.S. Customs and Border 
    Protection field offices to partner with military bases in the 
    region;
        (4) include outreach efforts to educate members of the Armed 
    Forces with Military Occupational Specialty Codes and Officer 
    Branches, Air Force Specialty Codes, Naval Enlisted Classifications 
    and Officer Designators, and Coast Guard competencies that are 
    transferable to the requirements, qualifications, and duties 
    assigned to Customs and Border Protection officers of available 
    hiring opportunities to become Customs and Border Protection 
    officers;
        (5) identify shared activities and opportunities for 
    reciprocity related to steps in hiring Customs and Border 
    Protection officers with the goal of minimizing the time required 
    to hire qualified applicants;
        (6) ensure the streamlined interagency transfer of relevant 
    background investigations and security clearances; and
        (7) include such other elements as may be necessary to ensure 
    that members of the Armed Forces who are separating from military 
    service are aware of opportunities to fill vacant Customs and 
    Border Protection officer positions.
SEC. 5. REPORT TO CONGRESS.
    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, and by December 31 of each of the next 3 years 
thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Defense, shall submit a report to the Committee on 
Homeland Security and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate that includes 
a description and assessment of the efforts of the Department of 
Homeland Security to hire members of the Armed Forces who are 
separating from military service as Customs and Border Protection 
officers under section 4.
    (b) Content.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
        (1) a detailed description of the efforts to implement section 
    4, including--
            (A) elements of the enhanced recruiting efforts and the 
        goals associated with such elements; and
            (B) a description of how the elements and goals referred to 
        in subparagraph (A) will assist in meeting statutorily mandated 
        staffing levels and agency hiring benchmarks;
        (2) a detailed description of the efforts that have been 
    undertaken under section 4;
        (3) the estimated number of separating service members made 
    aware of Customs and Border Protection officer vacancies;
        (4) the number of Customs and Border Protection officer 
    vacancies filled with separating service members; and
        (5) the number of Customs and Border Protection officer 
    vacancies filled with separating service members under Veterans 
    Recruitment Appointment authorized under section 4214 of title 38, 
    United States Code.
SEC. 6. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.
    Nothing in this Act may be construed--
        (1) as superseding, altering, or amending existing Federal 
    veterans' hiring preferences or Federal hiring authorities; or
        (2) to authorize the appropriation of additional amounts to 
    carry out this Act.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
