[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 4082 Introduced in House (IH)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  1st Session
                                H. R. 4082

To coordinate transportation services for transportation-disadvantaged 
                              individuals.


_______________________________________________________________________


                    IN THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES

                           November 19, 2015

    Mr. Webster of Florida introduced the following bill; which was 
     referred to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To coordinate transportation services for transportation-disadvantaged 
                              individuals.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Coordinating Transportation Services 
for Transportation Disadvantaged Individuals Act of 2015''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act, the following definitions apply:
            (1) Transportation-disadvantaged individual.--The term 
        ``transportation-disadvantaged individual'' means an individual 
        who requires the use of public transportation, but has 
        difficulty accessing public transportation due to disability, 
        income level, age, or veteran status.
            (2) Appropriate committees of congress.--The term 
        ``appropriate committees of Congress'' means the Committee on 
        Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public 
        Works of the Senate.
            (3) Council.--The term ``Council'' means the New 
        Interagency Transportation Coordinating Council on Access and 
        Mobility established under section 3.
            (4) Disability.--The term ``disability'' has the meaning 
        given such term in section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities 
        Act of 1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102).
            (5) Federal agency.--The term ``Federal agency'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``executive agency'' in section 105 of 
        title 5, United States Code.
            (6) Purchasing agency.--The term ``purchasing agency'' 
        means a department or agency of a State or local government 
        that purchases transportation services for transportation-
        disadvantaged individuals.
            (7) State.--The term ``State'' has the meaning given such 
        term in section 101 of title 23, United States Code.
            (8) State transport coordinating commission.--The term 
        ``State Transport Coordinating Commission'' means a commission 
        established pursuant to section 4.

SEC. 3. ESTABLISHMENT OF FEDERAL INTERAGENCY TRANSPORTATION 
              COORDINATING COUNCIL ON ACCESS AND MOBILITY.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established in the Department of 
Transportation a council to be known as the ``New Interagency 
Transportation Coordinating Council on Access and Mobility''.
    (b) Duties of Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Council shall coordinate 
        transportation services to transportation-disadvantaged 
        individuals in a manner that is cost effective, efficient, and 
        minimizes the fragmentation and duplication of such services.
            (2) Duties.--The Council shall carry out the following 
        activities:
                    (A) Strategic plan.--Develop, and update every 2 
                years, a written strategic plan that identifies Federal 
                agency roles and responsibilities and measurable 
                outcomes, including--
                            (i) the promotion of interagency 
                        cooperation and the establishment of 
                        appropriate mechanisms to minimize duplication 
                        and overlap of Federal programs and services so 
                        that transportation-disadvantaged individuals 
                        have access to more transportation services;
                            (ii) the alignment of the goals of reducing 
                        fragmentation, overlap, and duplication of 
                        services with benefits, including increased 
                        efficiency;
                            (iii) the formulation and implementation of 
                        administrative, policy, and procedural 
                        mechanisms that enhance transportation services 
                        at all levels; and
                            (iv) the development and implementation of 
                        a method for monitoring progress on achieving 
                        the purposes of this Act, including the 
                        implementation of the functions and 
                        requirements of the State Transport 
                        Coordinating Commissions.
                    (B) Joint cost-sharing policy.--Not later than 90 
                days after the date of enactment of this Act, develop a 
                joint cost-sharing policy among Federal agencies with 
                representatives on the Council that provides clear 
                guidance to State and local governments regarding the 
                appropriate allocation of costs to each Federal agency.
                    (C) Program inventory.--Maintain an inventory of 
                all Federal programs that provide transportation 
                services to transportation-disadvantaged individuals.
                    (D) Partnerships with state transport coordinating 
                commissions.--Partner with State Transport Coordinating 
                Commissions and aid such commissions in coordinating 
                transportation services for transportation-
                disadvantaged individuals, including--
                            (i) establishing best practices for the 
                        coordination by State and local governments of 
                        transportation services to transportation-
                        disadvantaged individuals;
                            (ii) facilitating access to the most 
                        appropriate and cost-effective transportation 
                        services using available resources;
                            (iii) encouraging enhanced access to the 
                        variety of transportation and resources 
                        available; and
                            (iv) advising each State Transport 
                        Coordinating Commission, upon the request of 
                        the State, with regard to the establishment of 
                        guidelines and procedures for the coordination 
                        of transportation services for transportation-
                        disadvantaged individuals.
    (c) Membership.--
            (1) Composition.--The Council shall be composed of each of 
        the following Federal officials or the designee of such 
        official:
                    (A) Secretary of Agriculture.
                    (B) Secretary of Education.
                    (C) Secretary of Health and Human Services.
                    (D) Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
                    (E) Secretary of the Interior.
                    (F) Secretary of Labor.
                    (G) Secretary of Transportation.
                    (H) Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
                    (I) Attorney General of the United States.
                    (J) Commissioner of Social Security.
                    (K) Any other Federal official that the Chairperson 
                determines to have activities relevant to the duties of 
                the Council.
            (2) Criteria for selection of designees.--The designee of 
        an official described in subparagraphs (A) through (K) of 
        paragraph (1) shall be an officer or employee of that 
        official's agency serving in a position with pay equal to or 
        greater than the minimum rate payable for GS-15 of the General 
        Schedule.
            (3) Terms.--Each member shall serve for the life of the 
        Council.
            (4) Prohibition on compensation of members.--Members of the 
        Council may not receive pay, allowances, or benefits by reason 
        of their service on the Council.
            (5) Travel expenses.--Each member of the Council shall 
        receive travel expenses, including per diem in lieu of 
        subsistence in accordance with applicable provisions under 
        subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.
            (6) Quorum.--Two-thirds of the members of the Council shall 
        constitute a quorum but a lesser number may hold hearings.
            (7) Chairperson.--The Secretary of Transportation, or the 
        Secretary's designee, shall serve as the Chairperson of the 
        Council.
            (8) Meetings.--The first meeting of the Council shall take 
        place not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of 
        this Act. Thereafter the Council shall meet quarterly and may 
        also meet at the call of the Chairperson or a majority of its 
        members.
            (9) Termination.--The Council shall terminate 1 year after 
        the expiration of all transportation-disadvantaged programs, as 
        determined by the Secretary of Transportation.
    (d) Staff of Council.--
            (1) In general.--The Chairperson may appoint and fix the 
        pay of personnel as the Chairperson considers appropriate.
            (2) Staff of federal agencies.--Upon request of the 
        Chairperson, the head of any Federal agency may detail on a 
        reimbursable basis, any of the personnel of that department or 
        agency to the Council to assist it in carrying out its duties 
        under this Act.
    (e) Powers of Council.--
            (1) Hearings and sessions.--The Council may sit and act at 
        times and places, take testimony, and receive evidence as the 
        Council considers appropriate to carry out the duties of the 
        Council under this Act.
            (2) Powers of members and agents.--Any member or agent of 
        the Council may, if authorized by the Council, take any action 
        which the Council is authorized to take by this Act.
            (3) Obtaining official data.--The Council may secure 
        directly from any Federal agency information necessary to 
        enable it to carry out this Act. Upon request of the 
        Chairperson of the Council the head of that department or 
        agency shall furnish the requested information to the Council.
            (4) Contract authority.--To the extent or in the amounts 
        provided in advance in appropriation Acts, the Council may 
        contract with and compensate government and private agencies or 
        persons for services related to the duties of the Council.
    (f) Report to Congress.--
            (1) In general.--The Council shall submit to the 
        appropriate committees of Congress a report containing the 
        information described in paragraph (2) not later than 1 year 
        after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
        thereafter.
            (2) Contents of report.--The report required by paragraph 
        (1) shall--
                    (A) contain the strategic plan developed under 
                subsection (b)(2)(A);
                    (B) identify Federal, State, and local laws, 
                regulations, and procedures that have proven to be most 
                useful and appropriate in coordinating transportation 
                services for transportation-disadvantaged individuals;
                    (C) identify Federal, State, and local laws, 
                regulations, and procedures, if any, that have impeded 
                the coordination of transportation services to 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals and recommend 
                changes to such laws, regulations, and procedures that 
                would remove impediments and facilitate greater 
                coordination of transportation services to 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals;
                    (D) describe, on a Federal agency and program 
                basis, steps taken to reduce the duplication of and 
                enhance coordination among transportation services to 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals and the 
                benefits realized as a result of reduced fragmentation, 
                overlap, and duplication of services;
                    (E) describe the progress of each State in meeting 
                the requirements of section 4; and
                    (F) provide any other recommendation that would 
                advance the goal of coordinating and reducing the 
                duplication of transportation services to 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals.

SEC. 4. STATE COORDINATING COMMISSIONS FOR TRANSPORTATION-DISADVANTAGED 
              INDIVIDUALS.

    (a) State Requirements.--A State meets the requirements of this 
section if it establishes a commission described in subsections (b) 
through (e).
    (b) State Transport Coordinating Commission.--
            (1) In general.--The State Transport Coordinating 
        Commission shall coordinate transportation for transportation-
        disadvantaged individuals within the State.
            (2) Duties.--The State Transport Coordinating Commission 
        shall carry out the following activities:
                    (A) Compile all available information on the 
                transportation operations for and needs of 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals in the State.
                    (B) Establish statewide objectives for coordinating 
                transportation services for transportation-
                disadvantaged individuals.
                    (C) Develop written policies and procedures for the 
                coordination of Federal, State, and local government 
                funding for transportation-disadvantaged individuals.
                    (D) Identify barriers prohibiting the coordination 
                and accessibility of transportation services to 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals and 
                aggressively pursue the elimination of such barriers.
                    (E) Establish a clearinghouse for information about 
                services for transportation-disadvantaged individuals, 
                including training, funding sources, innovations, and 
                coordination efforts.
                    (F) Assist communities in developing transportation 
                systems designed to serve transportation-disadvantaged 
                individuals.
                    (G) Verify that the procedures, guidelines, and 
                directives issued by purchasing agencies are conducive 
                to the coordination of transportation services for 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals.
                    (H) Verify that purchasing agencies purchase all 
                trips within transportation systems that serve 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals, unless such 
                agencies use more cost-effective alternative providers 
                that meet comparable quality and standards.
                    (I) Develop a written strategic plan that addresses 
                the transportation problems and needs of 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals for the 5-year 
                period beginning on the date of the enactment of this 
                Act. Such plan shall be fully coordinated with local 
                government transit plans, compatible with local 
                government comprehensive plans, and shall provide that 
                the most cost-effective and efficient methods of 
                providing transportation to transportation-
                disadvantaged individuals are programmed for 
                development.
    (c) Report to Council.--Not later than 1 year after the date of the 
establishment of the State Transport Coordinating Commission, such 
commission shall submit to the Council a report containing the 
strategic plan developed under subsection (b)(2)(I).
    (d) Membership.--
            (1) Number and appointment.--The State Transport 
        Coordinating Commission shall be composed of members appointed 
        by the chief executive of the State (hereafter in this section 
        referred to as the ``chief executive''), in accordance with 
        State law.
            (2) Composition.--
                    (A) In general.--In appointing members to the State 
                Transport Coordinating Commission, the chief executive 
                shall ensure that not less than two-thirds of such 
                members have significant experience in the operation of 
                a business and should seek to appoint members who 
                reflect the racial, ethnic, geographical, and gender 
                diversity of the State population.
                    (B) Residency requirement.--Each member must be a 
                resident of the State in which the State Transport 
                Coordinating Commission is established.
                    (C) Disabled members.--Not less than 2 members 
                shall be individuals who have a disability and who 
                regularly use a transportation system for 
                transportation-disadvantaged individuals.
                    (D) Senior citizen member.--Not less than 1 member 
                shall have attained the age of 65 years before serving 
                on the State Transport Coordinating Commission.
                    (E) Veteran member.--Not less than 1 member shall 
                be a veteran who regularly uses a transportation system 
                for transportation-disadvantaged individuals.
                    (F) Purchasing agencies.--The head of a State 
                government agency or department that purchases 
                nonemergency medical transportation services shall be a 
                member.
                    (G) Secretary of transportation.--The State's 
                Secretary of Transportation (or equivalent official) 
                shall be a member.
    (e) Ex Officio Advisors.--Additional government officials that the 
chief executive or State legislature may designate shall serve as ex 
officio, nonvoting advisors to the State Transport Coordinating 
Commission.
    (f) Organization and Administration.--The chief executive shall--
            (1) issue regulations or bylaws to ensure that no member of 
        the State Transport Coordinating Commission has a financial 
        stake in the provision of services to transportation-
        disadvantaged individuals; and
            (2) determine the organization of the State Transport 
        Coordinating Commission, including--
                    (A) the selection of a chairperson or director;
                    (B) the rate of compensation or per diem;
                    (C) the number of members that constitute a quorum;
                    (D) the development of a budget;
                    (E) staffing;
                    (F) the establishment of subgroups; and
                    (G) any other policy, procedure, or personnel 
                matters that the chief executive determines to be 
                necessary to meet the goals of the State Transport 
                Coordinating Commission.
    (g) Withholding of Funds for Noncompliance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Transportation shall 
        withhold 1 percent of the amount required to be apportioned to 
        a State under each of paragraphs (1) and (2) of section 104(b) 
        of title 23, United States Code, on the first day of each 
        fiscal year beginning after September 30, 2016, if the State 
        does not meet the requirements of this section on such day.
            (2) Effect of withholding funds.--Funds withheld from 
        apportionment to a State under paragraph (1) shall lapse.

SEC. 5. ADDITIONAL AGENCY REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Accounting of Transportation Services.--Each Federal agency 
shall keep an accounting of all expenditures directly related to the 
provision of transportation services for transportation-disadvantaged 
individuals.
    (b) Limitation on Capital Investments.--Notwithstanding any other 
provision of law, no Federal agency may make capital investments for 
the purpose of providing transportation services to transportation-
disadvantaged individuals.

SEC. 6. TERMINATION OF EXISTING COUNCIL.

    The Interagency Transportation Coordinating Council on Access and 
Mobility established pursuant to Executive Order 13330 dated February 
24, 2004, shall terminate upon the enactment of this Act.

SEC. 7. RULES OF CONSTRUCTION.

    (a) Construction With Older Americans Act.--Nothing in this Act 
shall be construed in such a manner to change or otherwise invalidate 
any requirements of the Older Americans Act of 1965 (42 U.S.C. 3001 et 
seq.).
    (b) Interstate Transportation Services.--Nothing in this Act shall 
be construed in such a manner to prohibit the coordination of 
transportation services for transportation-disadvantaged individuals 
across State lines.

SEC. 8. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    There are authorized to be appropriated to the Department of 
Transportation for each of the fiscal years 2016 through 2021 such sums 
as may be necessary to carry out this Act.
                                 <all>
