[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3106 Introduced in Senate (IS)]

<DOC>






114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3106

 To provide a coordinated regional response to effectively manage the 
endemic violence and humanitarian crisis in El Salvador, Guatemala, and 
                               Honduras.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             June 28, 2016

Mr. Reid (for himself, Mr. Durbin, Mr. Schumer, Mrs. Murray, Mr. Leahy, 
 Mr. Carper, and Mr. Cardin) introduced the following bill; which was 
       read twice and referred to the Committee on the Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
 To provide a coordinated regional response to effectively manage the 
endemic violence and humanitarian crisis in El Salvador, Guatemala, and 
                               Honduras.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Secure the 
Northern Triangle Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
Sec. 2. Findings.
Sec. 3. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 4. Definitions.
 TITLE I--ADVANCING REFORMS IN CENTRAL AMERICA TO ADDRESS THE FACTORS 
                           DRIVING MIGRATION

Subtitle A--Strengthening the Capacity of Central American Governments 
              To Protect and Provide for Their Own People

Sec. 111. Authorization of appropriations for United States strategy 
                            for engagement in Central America.
Sec. 112. Strengthening the rule of law and combating corruption.
Sec. 113. Combating criminal violence and improving citizen security.
Sec. 114. Tackling extreme poverty and advancing economic development.
   Subtitle B--Conditions, Limitations, and Certifications on United 
                           States Assistance

Sec. 121. Assistance funding available without condition.
Sec. 122. Conditions on assistance related to smuggling, screening, and 
                            safety of migrants.
Sec. 123. Conditions on assistance related to progress on specific 
                            issues.
   Subtitle C--Effectively Coordinating United States Engagement in 
                            Central America

Sec. 131. United States Coordinator for Engagement in Central America.
Subtitle D--United States Leadership for Engaging International Donors 
                              and Partners

Sec. 141. Requirement for strategy to secure support of international 
                            donors and partners.
    TITLE II--CRACKING DOWN ON SMUGGLERS, CARTELS, AND TRAFFICKERS 
                    EXPLOITING CHILDREN AND FAMILIES

Subtitle A--Strengthening Cooperation Among Law Enforcement Agencies To 
                    Target Smugglers and Traffickers

Sec. 211. Enhanced international cooperation to combat human smuggling 
                            and trafficking.
Sec. 212. Enhanced investigation and prosecution of human smuggling and 
                            trafficking.
Sec. 213. Information campaign on dangers of migration.
 Subtitle B--Strengthening the Ability of the United States Government 
       To Crack Down on Smugglers, Traffickers, and Drug Cartels

Sec. 221. Enhanced penalties for organized smuggling schemes.
Sec. 222. Expanding financial sanctions on narcotics trafficking and 
                            money laundering.
 Subtitle C--Creating New Penalties for Hindering Immigration, Border, 
                          and Customs Controls

Sec. 231. Hindering immigration, border, and customs controls.
   TITLE III--MINIMIZING BORDER CROSSINGS BY EXPANDING PROCESSING OF 
       REFUGEE CHILDREN AND FAMILIES IN-COUNTRY AND IN THE REGION

 Subtitle A--Providing Alternative Safe Havens in Mexico and the Region

Sec. 311. Strengthening internal asylum systems in Mexico and other 
                            countries.
Subtitle B--Expanding Refugee Processing in Mexico and Central America 
                     for Third Country Resettlement

Sec. 321. Expanding refugee processing in Mexico and Central America 
                            for third country resettlement.
  Subtitle C--Improving the Efficiency of the Central American Minors 
                                Program

Sec. 331. Expansion.
Sec. 332. Expedited processing.
Sec. 333. Referral to UNHCR.
TITLE IV--MONITORING AND SUPPORTING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN AFTER 
                        PROCESSING AT THE BORDER

Sec. 401. Definitions; authorization of appropriations.
   Subtitle A--Strengthening the Government's Ability To Oversee the 
                   Safety and Well-Being of Children

Sec. 411. Background checks to ensure the safe placement of 
                            unaccompanied alien children.
Sec. 412. Responsibility of sponsor for immigration court compliance 
                            and child well-being.
Sec. 413. Monitoring unaccompanied alien children.
    Subtitle B--Funding to States and School Districts; Supporting 
                          Education and Safety

Sec. 421. Funding to States to conduct State criminal checks and child 
                            abuse and neglect checks.
Sec. 422. Funding to school districts for unaccompanied alien children.
Sec. 423. Immediate enrollment of unaccompanied alien children in 
                            schools.
    TITLE V--ENSURING ORDERLY AND HUMANE MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN AND 
                      FAMILIES SEEKING PROTECTION

 Subtitle A--Providing a Fair and Efficient Legal Process for Children 
                 and Vulnerable Families Seeking Asylum

Sec. 511. Court appearance compliance and legal orientation.
Sec. 512. Fair day in court for kids.
      Subtitle B--Reducing Significant Delays in Immigration Court

Sec. 521. Eliminate immigration court backlogs.
Sec. 522. Improved training for immigration judges and members of the 
                            Board of Immigration Appeals.
Sec. 523. New technology to improve court efficiency.
           Subtitle C--Reducing the Likelihood of Remigration

Sec. 531. Establishing reintegration and monitoring services for 
                            repatriating children.

SEC. 2. FINDINGS.

    Congress finds the following:
            (1) Since 2006, incidents of murder, other violent crime, 
        and corruption perpetrated by armed criminal gangs and illicit 
        trafficking organizations have risen alarmingly in El Salvador, 
        Guatemala and Honduras (referred to in this Act as the 
        ``Northern Triangle'').
            (2) In 2013, Honduras had the highest per capita homicide 
        rate of any nation in the world, with 90.4 murders for every 
        100,000 people in the country. El Salvador and Guatemala were 
        in the top 5 countries with the highest per capita homicide 
        rates.
            (3) Since 2013, El Salvador's murder rate rose sharply to 
        become the highest of any country in the world in 2015 at 108.5 
        homicides for every 100,000 people, following a dramatic 
        escalation of violence between the country's 2 largest armed 
        criminal gangs, Mara Salvatrucha (commonly known as ``MS-13'') 
        and Barrio 18.
            (4) According to the United Nations International 
        Children's Emergency Fund (UNICEF), the per capita homicide 
        rate for children in El Salvador and Guatemala is higher than 
        any other country in the world. In 2014, 27 out of every 
        100,000 children were murdered in El Salvador.
            (5) According to the United Nations High Commissioner for 
        Refugees (UNHCR), Honduras and El Salvador have the highest per 
        capita female homicide rates in the world. In 2014, 90 out of 
        every 100,000 females were murdered in Honduras.
            (6) In April 2016, UNHCR's spokesperson stated, ``The 
        number of people fleeing violence in Central America has surged 
        to levels not seen since the region was wracked by armed 
        conflicts in the 1980s. Action is urgently needed to ensure 
        that unaccompanied children and others receive the protection 
        to which they are entitled.''.
            (7) Since 2013, individuals fleeing the Northern Triangle 
        have sought sanctuary in neighboring countries and there has 
        recently been a 1,185 percent increase in the number of asylum 
        applications from citizens of El Salvador, Guatemala, and 
        Honduras to the Governments of Mexico, Panama, Nicaragua, Costa 
        Rica and Belize.
            (8) Unaccompanied minors from the Northern Triangle now 
        make up the majority of unaccompanied minors encountered at the 
        international border between the United States and Mexico, with 
        the fastest increase occurring among children younger than 12 
        years of age.
            (9) Human smugglers are increasingly responsible for the 
        transit of migrants from the Northern Triangle to the United 
        States. According to the Government Accountability Office, 
        human smugglers frequently use aggressive and misleading 
        marketing to recruit migrants.
            (10) Many female migrants face rape and sexual violence 
        during the journey, either from smugglers or others encountered 
        on the route, or risk being trafficked for sex or labor.
            (11) Challenges to the rule of law in the Northern Triangle 
        have been exacerbated by the limited ability and lack of 
        political will on the part of governments to investigate and 
        prosecute those responsible for murder. In 2014, approximately 
        95 percent of murders remained unresolved in Honduras and El 
        Salvador.
            (12) The presence of major drug trafficking organizations 
        in the Northern Triangle contributes to violence, corruption, 
        and criminality. The 2016 International Narcotics Control 
        Strategy Report prepared by the Department of State estimated 
        that ``approximately 90 percent of the cocaine trafficked to 
        the United States in the first half of 2015 first transited 
        through the Mexico/Central America corridor''.
            (13) Widespread public sector corruption in the Northern 
        Triangle undermines economic and social development and 
        directly affects regional political stability, as demonstrated 
        by the indictment and resignation of former Guatemalan 
        president Otto Perez Molina on corruption charges.
            (14) Human rights defenders, journalists, trade unionists, 
        social leaders, and LGBT activists in the Northern Triangle 
        face dire conditions, as evidenced by the March 2016 murder of 
        Honduran activist Berta Caceres and the targeted killing of 
        more than 200 such civil society leaders since 2006. Almost 
        none of these cases have resulted in convictions.
            (15) The Northern Triangle struggles with high levels of 
        economic insecurity. In 2014, more than 62 percent of 
        Hondurans, more than 59 percent of Guatemalans, and more than 
        31 percent of Salvadorans lived below the poverty line.
            (16) Weak investment climates and low levels of educational 
        opportunity are barriers to inclusive economic growth and 
        social development in the Northern Triangle.
            (17) Although the CAM Program has approval rates of nearly 
        98 percent, due to limited resources, of the 8,920 children 
        that have applied for humanitarian protection, only 626 have 
        been conditionally approved and only 368 have entered the 
        United States.
            (18) Approximately 50 percent of unaccompanied minors 
        facing United States immigration proceedings receive legal 
        representation. Children with legal counsel appeared at their 
        hearings more than 95 percent of the time.
            (19) As of May 2016, 492,978 cases were pending before 
        immigration courts, with such cases taking an average of 553 
        days to reach a final decision.

SEC. 3. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) the United States must address the violence and 
        humanitarian crisis resulting in the elevated numbers of 
        unaccompanied children, women, and refugees from the Northern 
        Triangle arriving at the Southwestern border of the United 
        States;
            (2) the violence and humanitarian crisis has been prompted 
        by the severe challenges posed by--
                    (A) high rates of homicide, sexual violence, and 
                violent crime perpetrated by armed criminal actors;
                    (B) endemic corruption; and
                    (C) the limited ability and the lack of political 
                will on the part of governments to protect their 
                citizens and uphold the rule of law in the Northern 
                Triangle;
            (3) the United States must work with international 
        partners--
                    (A) to address the complicated conditions in the 
                Northern Triangle that contribute to the violence and 
                humanitarian crisis; and
                    (B) to protect vulnerable populations, particularly 
                women and children, fleeing violence in the region;
            (4) the Plan of the Alliance for Prosperity in the Northern 
        Triangle, which was developed by the Governments of El 
        Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras, with the technical 
        assistance of the Inter-American Development Bank, represents a 
        comprehensive approach to address the complex situation in the 
        Northern Triangle;
            (5) the U.S. Strategy for Engagement in Central America, as 
        articulated by President Obama and Vice President Biden, 
        provides important support for the Alliance for Prosperity and 
        other United States national security priorities, including 
        rule of law and anti-corruption initiatives;
            (6) combating corruption in the Northern Triangle must 
        remain a critical priority and the United Nation's Commission 
        Against Impunity in Guatemala (CICIG) and the Organization of 
        American States' Mission to Support the Fight Against 
        Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH) are important 
        contributions to this effort;
            (7) the CAM Program provides a safe, legal, and orderly 
        alternative to children fleeing violence in the Northern 
        Triangle;
            (8) the United States must--
                    (A) expand the CAM Program to ensure the safe and 
                orderly processing of refugee children in the region;
                    (B) strengthen internal asylum systems in Mexico 
                and other countries in the region to protect and 
                process eligible children and families, including 
                establishing and expanding in-country reception 
                centers;
                    (C) expand access to legal representation for 
                unaccompanied alien children facing United States 
                immigration proceedings; and
                    (D) reduce delays in immigration courts, which 
                contribute to misinformation that migrants who come to 
                the United States will not be removed; and
            (9) it is imperative for the United States to sustain a 
        long-term commitment to addressing the factors causing Central 
        Americans to flee their countries by strengthening citizen 
        security, the rule of law, democratic governance, the 
        protection of human rights, and inclusive economic growth in 
        the Northern Triangle.

SEC. 4. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) CAM program.--The term ``CAM Program'' means the 
        Central American Minors Refugee/Parole Program administered by 
        U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.
            (2) Intelligence community.--The term ``intelligence 
        community'' has the meaning given the term in section 3(4) of 
        the National Security Act of 1947 (50 U.S.C. 3003(4)).
            (3) Northern triangle.--The term ``Northern Triangle'' 
        means El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras.
            (4) Placement.--The term ``placement'' means the placement 
        of an unaccompanied alien child with a sponsor.
            (5) Plan.--The term ``Plan'' means the Plan of the Alliance 
        for Prosperity in the Northern Triangle.
            (6) Sponsor.--The term ``sponsor'' means a sponsor referred 
        to in section 462(b)(4) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 
        U.S.C. 279(b)(4)).
            (7) Unaccompanied alien child.--The term ``unaccompanied 
        alien child'' has the meaning given the term in section 462(g) 
        of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)).

 TITLE I--ADVANCING REFORMS IN CENTRAL AMERICA TO ADDRESS THE FACTORS 
                           DRIVING MIGRATION

Subtitle A--Strengthening the Capacity of Central American Governments 
              To Protect and Provide for Their Own People

SEC. 111. AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS FOR UNITED STATES STRATEGY 
              FOR ENGAGEMENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA.

    (a) In General.--There are authorized to be appropriated 
$1,040,000,000 for fiscal year 2017 to carry out the United States 
Strategy for Engagement in Central America, as defined by the 
objectives set forth in subsection (b). Amounts appropriated pursuant 
to this subsection shall remain available until expended.
    (b) Use of Funds.--Amounts appropriated pursuant to subsection (a) 
may be made available for assistance to Central American countries to 
implement the United States Strategy for Engagement in Central America 
in support of the Plan, including efforts--
            (1) to strengthen the rule of law and bolster the 
        effectiveness of judicial systems, public prosecutors' offices, 
        and civilian police forces;
            (2) to combat corruption and improve public sector 
        transparency;
            (3) to confront and counter the violence and crime 
        perpetrated by armed criminal gangs, illicit trafficking 
        organizations, and organized crime;
            (4) to disrupt money laundering operations and the illicit 
        financial networks of armed criminal gangs, illicit trafficking 
        organizations, and human smugglers;
            (5) to strengthen democratic governance and promote greater 
        respect for internationally recognized human rights, labor 
        rights, fundamental freedoms, and the media;
            (6) to enhance the capability of Central American 
        governments to protect and provide for vulnerable and at-risk 
        populations;
            (7) to address the underlying causes of poverty and 
        inequality; and
            (8) to address the constraints to inclusive economic growth 
        in Central America.
    (c) Prioritization.--The Secretary of State and the Administrator 
of the United States Agency for International Development shall 
prioritize the provision of assistance authorized under this section to 
address the key factors in Central American countries that contribute 
to the flight of unaccompanied alien children and other individuals to 
the United States.

SEC. 112. STRENGTHENING THE RULE OF LAW AND COMBATING CORRUPTION.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
111(a), $260,000,000 may be made available to the Secretary of State 
and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development to strengthen the rule of law, combat corruption, 
consolidate democratic governance, and defend human rights.
    (b) Assistance for Central America.--The Secretary and the 
Administrator may use the amounts made available under subsection (a) 
to provide assistance for Central American countries through the 
activities described in subsection (c).
    (c) Authorized Activities.--Activities described in this section 
include--
            (1) strengthening the rule of law in Central American 
        countries by providing support for--
                    (A) the Office of the Attorney General and public 
                prosecutors in each such country, including the 
                enhancement of their forensics and communications 
                interception capabilities;
                    (B) reforms leading to independent, merit-based, 
                selection processes for judges and prosecutors, and 
                relevant ethics and professional training;
                    (C) the improvement of victim and witness 
                protection; and
                    (D) the reform and improvement of prison facilities 
                and management;
            (2) combating corruption by providing support for--
                    (A) inspectors general and oversight institutions, 
                including relevant training for inspectors and 
                auditors;
                    (B) international commissions against impunity, 
                including the International Commission Against Impunity 
                in Guatemala (CICIG) and the Support Mission Against 
                Corruption and Impunity in Honduras (MACCIH);
                    (C) civil society watchdogs conducting oversight of 
                executive branch officials and functions, police and 
                security forces, and judicial officials and public 
                prosecutors; and
                    (D) the enhancement of freedom of information 
                mechanisms;
            (3) consolidating democratic governance by providing 
        support for--
                    (A) the reform of civil services, related training 
                programs, and relevant career laws and processes that 
                lead to independent, merit-based selection processes;
                    (B) national legislatures and their capacity to 
                conduct oversight of executive branch functions;
                    (C) the reform of political party and campaign 
                finance laws; and
                    (D) local governments and their capacity to provide 
                critical safety, education, health, and sanitation 
                services to citizens; and
            (4) defending human rights by providing support for--
                    (A) human rights ombudsman offices;
                    (B) government protection programs that provide 
                physical protection to human rights defenders, 
                journalists, trade unionists, and civil society 
                activists at risk;
                    (C) civil society organizations that promote and 
                defend human rights, freedom of expression, freedom of 
                the press, labor rights, and LGBT rights; and
                    (D) civil society organizations that address 
                sexual, domestic, and inter-partner violence against 
                women and protect victims of such violence.

SEC. 113. COMBATING CRIMINAL VIOLENCE AND IMPROVING CITIZEN SECURITY.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
111(a), $260,000,000 may be made available to the Secretary of State 
and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development to counter the violence and crime perpetrated by armed 
criminal gangs, illicit trafficking organizations and human smugglers.
    (b) Assistance for Central America.--The Secretary and the 
Administrator may use the amounts made available under subsection (a) 
to provide assistance for Central American countries through the 
activities described in subsection (c).
    (c) Authorized Activities.--Activities described in this section 
include--
            (1) professionalizing civilian police forces by providing 
        support for--
                    (A) the reform of personnel vetting and dismissal 
                processes, including the enhancement of polygraph 
                capability for use in such processes;
                    (B) inspectors general and oversight offices, 
                including relevant training for inspectors and 
                auditors;
                    (C) community policing policies and programs;
                    (D) the establishment of special vetted units;
                    (E) training on the appropriate use of force and 
                human rights;
                    (F) training on civilian intelligence collection, 
                investigative techniques, forensic analysis, and 
                evidence preservation; and
                    (G) equipment, such as nonintrusive inspection 
                equipment and communications interception technology;
            (2) countering illicit trafficking by providing assistance 
        to the civilian law enforcement and armed forces of Central 
        American countries, including support for--
                    (A) the establishment of special vetted units;
                    (B) the enhancement of intelligence collection 
                capacity;
                    (C) the reform of personnel vetting and dismissal 
                processes, including the enhancement of polygraph 
                capability for use in such processes; and
                    (D) port, airport, and border security equipment, 
                including--
                            (i) computer infrastructure and data 
                        management systems;
                            (ii) secure communications technologies;
                            (iii) communications interception 
                        technology;
                            (iv) nonintrusive inspection equipment; and
                            (v) radar and aerial surveillance 
                        equipment;
            (3) disrupting illicit financial networks by providing 
        support for--
                    (A) finance ministries, including the enhancement 
                of the capacity to use financial sanctions to block the 
                assets of individuals and organizations involved in 
                money laundering and the financing of armed criminal 
                gangs, illicit trafficking networks, human smugglers, 
                and organized crime;
                    (B) financial intelligence units, including the 
                establishment and enhancement of anti-money laundering 
                programs; and
                    (C) the reform of bank secrecy laws; and
            (4) improving crime prevention by providing support for--
                    (A) programs that address domestic violence and 
                violence against women;
                    (B) the enhancement of programs for at-risk and 
                criminal-involved youth, including the improvement of 
                community centers; and
                    (C) alternative livelihood programs.
    (d) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that--
            (1) operational technology transferred to governments in 
        Central America for intelligence or law enforcement purposes 
        should be used solely for the purposes for which the technology 
        was intended; and
            (2) the United States should take all necessary steps to 
        ensure that the use of operation technology described in 
        paragraph (1) is consistent with United States law, including 
        protections of freedom of expression, freedom of movement, and 
        freedom of association.

SEC. 114. TACKLING EXTREME POVERTY AND ADVANCING ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.

    (a) In General.--Of the amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
111(a), $230,000,000 may be made available to the Secretary of State 
and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International 
Development--
            (1) to address the underlying causes of poverty and 
        inequality; and
            (2) to improve economic development.
    (b) Assistance for Central America.--The Secretary and the 
Administrator may use the amounts made available under subsection (a) 
to provide assistance for Central American countries through the 
activities described in subsection (c).
    (c) Authorized Activities.--Activities described in this section 
include--
            (1) strengthening human capital by providing support for--
                    (A) workforce development and entrepreneurship 
                training programs that are driven by market demand, 
                specifically programs that prioritize women, at-risk 
                youth, and minorities;
                    (B) improving early-grade literacy and the 
                improvement of primary and secondary school curricula;
                    (C) relevant professional training for teachers and 
                educational administrators; and
                    (D) educational policy reform and improvement of 
                education sector budgeting;
            (2) enhancing economic competitiveness and investment 
        climate by providing support for--
                    (A) small business development centers and programs 
                that strengthen supply chain integration;
                    (B) trade facilitation and customs harmonization 
                programs;
                    (C) reducing energy costs through investments in 
                clean technologies and the reform of energy policies 
                and regulations;
                    (D) the improvement of protections for investors, 
                including dispute resolution and arbitration 
                mechanisms; and
                    (E) the improvement of labor and environmental 
                standards, in accordance with the Dominican Republic-
                Central America Free Trade Agreement (CAFTA-DR);
            (3) strengthening food security by providing support for--
                    (A) small-scale agriculture, including technical 
                training and programs that facilitate access to credit;
                    (B) agricultural value chain development for 
                farming communities;
                    (C) nutrition programs to reduce childhood stunting 
                rates; and
                    (D) investment in scientific research on climate 
                change and climate resiliency; and
            (4) improving the state of fiscal and financial affairs by 
        providing support for--
                    (A) domestic revenue generation, including programs 
                to improve tax administration, collection, and 
                enforcement;
                    (B) strengthening public sector financial 
                management, including strategic budgeting and 
                expenditure tracking; and
                    (C) reform of customs and procurement policies and 
                processes.

   Subtitle B--Conditions, Limitations, and Certifications on United 
                           States Assistance

SEC. 121. ASSISTANCE FUNDING AVAILABLE WITHOUT CONDITION.

    The Secretary of State may obligate up to 25 percent of the amounts 
appropriated pursuant to section 111(a) to carry out the United States 
Strategy for Engagement in Central America in support of the Plan.

SEC. 122. CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE RELATED TO SMUGGLING, SCREENING, AND 
              SAFETY OF MIGRANTS.

    (a) Notification and Cooperation.--In addition to the amounts 
authorized to be obligated under sections 121 and 123, the Secretary of 
State may obligate an additional 25 percent of the amounts appropriated 
pursuant to section 111(a) for assistance to the Government of El 
Salvador, the Government of Guatemala, and the Government of Honduras 
after the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, certifies and reports to Congress that such 
governments are taking effective steps, in addition to steps taken 
during previous years, to--
            (1) combat human smuggling and trafficking, including 
        investigating, prosecuting, and increasing penalties for 
        individuals responsible for such crimes;
            (2) improve border security and border screening to detect 
        and deter illicit smuggling and trafficking, while respecting 
        the rights of individuals fleeing violence and seeking 
        humanitarian protection asylum, in accordance with 
        international law;
            (3) cooperate with United States Government agencies and 
        other governments in the region to facilitate the safe and 
        timely repatriation of migrants who do not qualify for refugee 
        or other protected status, in accordance with international 
        law;
            (4) improve reintegration services for repatriated migrants 
        in a manner that ensures the safety and well-being of the 
        individual and reduces the likelihood of remigration; and
            (5) cooperate with the United Nations High Commissioner for 
        Refugees to improve protections for, and the processing of, 
        vulnerable populations, particularly women and children fleeing 
        violence.

SEC. 123. CONDITIONS ON ASSISTANCE RELATED TO PROGRESS ON SPECIFIC 
              ISSUES.

    (a) Effective Implementation.--In addition to the amounts 
authorized to be obligated under sections 121 and 122, the Secretary of 
State may obligate an additional 50 percent of the amounts appropriated 
pursuant to section 111 for assistance to the Government of El 
Salvador, the Government of Guatemala, and the Government of Honduras 
after the Secretary consults with, and subsequently certifies and 
reports to, the appropriate congressional committees that such 
governments are taking effective steps in their respective countries, 
in addition to steps taken during the previous calendar year, to--
            (1) establish an autonomous, publicly accountable entity to 
        provide oversight of the Plan;
            (2) combat corruption, including investigating and 
        prosecuting government officials, military personnel, and civil 
        police officers credibly alleged to be corrupt;
            (3) implement reforms and strengthen the rule of law, 
        including increasing the capacity and independence of the 
        judiciary and public prosecutors;
            (4) counter the activities of armed criminal gangs, illicit 
        trafficking networks, and organized crime;
            (5) establish and implement a plan to create a 
        professional, accountable civilian police force and curtail the 
        role of the military in internal policing;
            (6) investigate and prosecute, through the civilian justice 
        system, military and police personnel who are credibly alleged 
        to have violated human rights, and to ensure that the military 
        and the police are cooperating in such cases;
            (7) cooperate with international commissions against 
        impunity, as appropriate, and with regional human rights 
        entities;
            (8) implement reforms related to improving the transparency 
        of financing political campaigns and political parties;
            (9) protect the right of political opposition parties, 
        journalists, trade unionists, human rights defenders, and other 
        civil society activists to operate without interference;
            (10) increase government revenues, including by enhancing 
        tax collection, strengthening customs agencies, and reforming 
        procurement processes;
            (11) implement reforms to strengthen educational systems, 
        vocational training programs, and programs for at-risk youth;
            (12) resolve commercial disputes, including the 
        confiscation of real property, between United States entities 
        and the respective governments; and
            (13) implement a policy by which local communities, civil 
        society organizations (including indigenous and marginalized 
        groups), and local governments are consulted in the design, 
        implementation and evaluation of the activities of the Plan 
        that affect such communities, organizations, or governments.

   Subtitle C--Effectively Coordinating United States Engagement in 
                            Central America

SEC. 131. UNITED STATES COORDINATOR FOR ENGAGEMENT IN CENTRAL AMERICA.

    (a) Designation.--Not later than 30 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the President shall designate a senior official 
to coordinate all of the Federal Government's efforts and the efforts 
of international partners to strengthen citizen security, the rule of 
law, and economic prosperity in Central America and to protect 
vulnerable populations in the region.
    (b) Supervision.--The official designated under subsection (a) 
shall report directly to the President.
    (c) Duties.--The official designated under subsection (a) shall 
coordinate all of the efforts, activities, and programs related to 
United States engagement in Central America, including--
            (1) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Justice (including the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation), the Department of Homeland Security, the 
        intelligence community, and international partners regarding 
        United States efforts to confront armed criminal gangs, illicit 
        trafficking networks, and organized crime responsible for high 
        levels of violence, extortion, and corruption in Central 
        America;
            (2) coordinating with the Department of State, the United 
        States Agency for International Development, and international 
        partners regarding United States efforts to prevent and 
        mitigate the effects of violent criminal gangs and 
        transnational criminal organizations on vulnerable Central 
        American populations, including women and children;
            (3) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Homeland Security, and international partners 
        regarding United States efforts to counter human smugglers 
        illegally transporting Central American migrants to the United 
        States;
            (4) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Homeland Security, the United States Agency for 
        International Development, and international partners, 
        including the United Nations High Commissions for Refugees, to 
        increase protections for vulnerable Central American 
        populations, improve refugee processing, and strengthen asylum 
        systems throughout the region;
            (5) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Defense, the Department of Justice (including the 
        Drug Enforcement Administration), the Department of the 
        Treasury, the intelligence community, and international 
        partners regarding United States efforts to combat illicit 
        narcotics traffickers, interdict transshipments of illicit 
        narcotics, and disrupt the financing of the illicit narcotics 
        trade;
            (6) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of the Treasury, the Department of Justice, the 
        intelligence community, the United States Agency for 
        International Development, and international partners regarding 
        United States efforts to combat corruption, money laundering, 
        and illicit financial networks;
            (7) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Justice, the United States Agency for 
        International Development, and international partners regarding 
        United States efforts to strengthen the rule of law, democratic 
        governance, and human rights protections; and
            (8) coordinating with the Department of State, the 
        Department of Agriculture, the United States Agency for 
        International Development, the Overseas Private Investment 
        Corporation, the United States Trade and Development Agency, 
        the Department of Labor, and international partners, including 
        the Inter-American Development Bank, to strengthen the 
        foundation for inclusive economic growth and improve food 
        security, investment climate, and protections for labor rights.
    (d) Consultation.--The official designated under subsection (a) 
shall consult with Congress, multilateral organizations and 
institutions, foreign governments, and domestic and international civil 
society organizations.

Subtitle D--United States Leadership for Engaging International Donors 
                              and Partners

SEC. 141. REQUIREMENT FOR STRATEGY TO SECURE SUPPORT OF INTERNATIONAL 
              DONORS AND PARTNERS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 90 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit a 3-year 
strategy to the appropriate congressional committees that--
            (1) describes how the United States will secure support 
        from international donors and regional partners (including 
        Colombia and Mexico) for the implementation of the Plan;
            (2) identifies governments that are willing to provide 
        financial and technical assistance for the implementation of 
        the Plan and a description of such assistance; and
            (3) identifies the financial and technical assistance to be 
        provided by multilateral institutions, including the Inter-
        American Development Bank, the World Bank, the International 
        Monetary Fund, the Andean Development Corporation--Development 
        Bank of Latin America, and the Organization of American States, 
        and a description of such assistance.
    (b) Diplomatic Engagement and Coordination.--The Secretary of 
State, in coordination with the Secretary of the Treasury, as 
appropriate, shall--
            (1) carry out diplomatic engagement to secure contributions 
        of financial and technical assistance from international donors 
        and partners in support of the Plan; and
            (2) take all necessary steps to ensure effective 
        cooperation among international donors and partners supporting 
        the Plan.
    (c) Report.--Not later than 1 year after submitting the strategy 
submitted under subsection (a), the Secretary of State shall submit a 
report to the appropriate congressional committees that describes--
            (1) the progress made in implementing the strategy; and
            (2) the financial and technical assistance provided by 
        international donors and partners, including the multilateral 
        institutions listed in subsection (a)(3).
    (d) Briefings.--Upon a request from one of the appropriate 
congressional committees, the Secretary of State shall provide a 
briefing to the committee that describes the progress made in 
implementing the strategy submitted under subsection (a).
    (e) Defined Term.--In this section, the term ``appropriate 
congressional committees'' means--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (4) the Committee on Appropriations of the House of 
        Representatives.

    TITLE II--CRACKING DOWN ON SMUGGLERS, CARTELS, AND TRAFFICKERS 
                    EXPLOITING CHILDREN AND FAMILIES

Subtitle A--Strengthening Cooperation Among Law Enforcement Agencies To 
                    Target Smugglers and Traffickers

SEC. 211. ENHANCED INTERNATIONAL COOPERATION TO COMBAT HUMAN SMUGGLING 
              AND TRAFFICKING.

    (a) Partnership Expansion.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
coordination with the Secretary of State, shall expand partnership 
efforts with law enforcement entities in El Salvador, Guatemala, 
Honduras, and Mexico seeking to combat human smuggling and trafficking 
in those countries, including--
            (1) the creation or expansion of transnational criminal 
        investigative units to identify, disrupt, and prosecute human 
        smuggling and trafficking operations;
            (2) participation by U.S. Immigration and Customs 
        Enforcement and the Department of Justice in the Bilateral 
        Human Trafficking Enforcement Initiative with their Mexican law 
        enforcement counterparts; and
            (3) advanced training programs for investigators and 
        prosecutors from El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, and Mexico.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (a).

SEC. 212. ENHANCED INVESTIGATION AND PROSECUTION OF HUMAN SMUGGLING AND 
              TRAFFICKING.

    (a) In General.--The Attorney General and the Secretary of Homeland 
Security shall expand collaborative programs aimed at investigating and 
prosecuting human smugglers and traffickers targeting Central American 
children and families and operating at the Southwestern border, 
including the continuation and expansion of anti-trafficking 
coordination teams.
    (b) Homeland Security Investigations.--The Secretary of Homeland 
Security, in consultation with the Director of U.S. Immigration and 
Customs Enforcement, shall increase the resources available to Homeland 
Security Investigations to facilitate the expansion of its smuggling 
and trafficking investigations.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsections (a) 
and (b).

SEC. 213. INFORMATION CAMPAIGN ON DANGERS OF MIGRATION.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
consultation with the Secretary of State, shall design and implement 
public information campaigns in El Salvador, Guatemala, and Honduras--
            (1) to disseminate information about the dangers of travel 
        across Mexico to the United States; and
            (2) to combat misinformation about United States 
        immigration law or policy.
    (b) Elements.--The information campaigns implemented pursuant to 
subsection (a) shall, to the greatest extent possible--
            (1) be targeted at populations and localities with high 
        migration rates;
            (2) employ a variety of communications media; and
            (3) be developed in consultation with program officials at 
        the Department of Homeland Security, the Department of State, 
        or other government, nonprofit, or academic entities in close 
        contact with migrant populations from El Salvador, Guatemala, 
        and Honduras, including repatriated migrants.

 Subtitle B--Strengthening the Ability of the United States Government 
       To Crack Down on Smugglers, Traffickers, and Drug Cartels

SEC. 221. ENHANCED PENALTIES FOR ORGANIZED SMUGGLING SCHEMES.

    (a) In General.--Section 274(a)(1)(B) of the Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1324(a)(1)(B)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating clauses (iii) and (iv) as clauses (iv) 
        and (v), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after clause (ii) the following:
            ``(iii) in the case of a violation of subparagraph (A)(i) 
        during and in relation to which the person, while acting for 
        profit or other financial gain, knowingly directs or 
        participates in an effort or scheme to assist or cause 10 or 
        more persons (other than a parent, spouse, or child of the 
        offender) to enter or to attempt to enter the United States at 
        the same time at a place other than a designated port of entry 
        or place other than designated by the Secretary, be fined under 
        title 18, United States Code, imprisoned not more than 15 
        years, or both;''; and
            (3) in clause (iv), as redesignated, by inserting ``commits 
        or attempts to commit sexual assault of,'' after ``section 1365 
        of title 18, United States Code) to,''.
    (b) Bulk Cash Smuggling.--Section 5332(b)(1) of title 31, United 
States Code, is amended--
            (1) in the paragraph heading, by striking ``Term of 
        imprisonment'' and inserting ``In general''; and
            (2) by inserting ``, fined under title 18, or both'' after 
        ``5 years''.

SEC. 222. EXPANDING FINANCIAL SANCTIONS ON NARCOTICS TRAFFICKING AND 
              MONEY LAUNDERING.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) In July 2011, President Obama released ``Strategy to 
        Combat Transnational Organized Crime'', which articulates a 
        multidimensional response to combat transnational organized 
        crime, including drug trafficking networks, armed criminal 
        gangs, and money laundering.
            (2) The Strategy calls for expanded efforts to dismantle 
        illicit financial networks, including through maximizing the 
        use of the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act (21 U.S.C. 
        1901 et seq.).
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the Senate 
should immediately confirm pending nominations to key national security 
positions, including Mr. Adam Szubin, who was nominated by President 
Obama on April 16, 2015, to the position of Undersecretary for 
Terrorism and Financial Crimes within the Department of the Treasury, a 
critical position focused on identifying and confronting illicit 
financial networks.
    (c) Financial Sanctions Expansion.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of the Treasury, the 
        Attorney General, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of 
        Defense, and the Director of Central Intelligence shall expand 
        investigations, intelligence collection, and analysis pursuant 
        to the Foreign Narcotics Kingpin Designation Act to increase 
        the identification and application of sanctions against--
                    (A) significant foreign narcotics traffickers, 
                their organizations and networks; and
                    (B) the foreign persons who provide material, 
                financial, or technological support to such 
                traffickers, organizations, and networks.
            (2) Targets.--The efforts described in paragraph (1) shall 
        specifically target foreign narcotics traffickers, their 
        organizations and networks, and the foreign persons who provide 
        material, financial, or technological support to such 
        traffickers, organizations and networks that are present and 
        operating in Central or South America.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (c).

 Subtitle C--Creating New Penalties for Hindering Immigration, Border, 
                          and Customs Controls

SEC. 231. HINDERING IMMIGRATION, BORDER, AND CUSTOMS CONTROLS.

    (a) Immigration and Nationality Act.--The Immigration and 
Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after 
section 274D the following:

``SEC. 274E. HINDERING IMMIGRATION, BORDER, AND CUSTOMS CONTROLS.

    ``(a) Illicit Spotting.--
            ``(1) In general.--It shall be unlawful to knowingly 
        surveil, track, monitor, or transmit the location, movement, or 
        activities of any officer or employee of a Federal, State, or 
        tribal law enforcement agency--
                    ``(A) with the intent to gain financially; and
                    ``(B) in furtherance of any violation of the 
                immigration laws, the customs and trade laws of the 
                United States (as defined in section 2 of the Trade 
                Facilitation and Trade Enforcement Act of 2015 (Public 
                Law 114-125)), any other Federal law relating to 
                transporting controlled substances, agriculture, or 
                monetary instruments into the United States, or any 
                Federal law relating to border controls measures of the 
                United States.
            ``(2) Penalty.--Any person who violates paragraph (1) shall 
        be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned for not 
        more than 5 years, or both.
    ``(b) Destruction of United States Border Controls.--
            ``(1) In general.--It shall be unlawful to knowingly and 
        without lawful authorization--
                    ``(A) destroy or significantly damage any fence, 
                barrier, sensor, camera, or other physical or 
                electronic device deployed by the Federal Government to 
                control an international border of, or a port of entry 
                to, the United States; or
                    ``(B) otherwise seek to construct, excavate, or 
                make any structure intended to defeat, circumvent or 
                evade such a fence, barrier, sensor camera, or other 
                physical or electronic device deployed by the Federal 
                Government to control an international border of, or a 
                port of entry to, the United States.
            ``(2) Penalty.--Any person who violates paragraph (1) shall 
        be fined under title 18, United States Code, imprisoned for not 
        more than 5 years, or both.''.
    (b) Clerical Amendment.--The table of contents of such Act (8 
U.S.C. 1101 et seq.) is amended by inserting after the item relating to 
section 274D the following:

``Sec. 274E. Hindering immigration, border, and customs controls.''.

   TITLE III--MINIMIZING BORDER CROSSINGS BY EXPANDING PROCESSING OF 
       REFUGEE CHILDREN AND FAMILIES IN-COUNTRY AND IN THE REGION

 Subtitle A--Providing Alternative Safe Havens in Mexico and the Region

SEC. 311. STRENGTHENING INTERNAL ASYLUM SYSTEMS IN MEXICO AND OTHER 
              COUNTRIES.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall work with international partners, 
including the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, to support 
and provide technical assistance to strengthen the domestic capacity of 
Mexico and other countries in the region to provide asylum to eligible 
children and families by--
            (1) establishing and expanding temporary and long-term in-
        country reception centers and shelter capacity to meet the 
        humanitarian needs of those seeking asylum or other forms of 
        international protection;
            (2) improving the asylum registration system to ensure that 
        all individuals seeking asylum or other humanitarian 
        protection--
                    (A) are properly screened for security, including 
                biographic and biometric capture;
                    (B) receive due process and meaningful access to 
                existing legal protections; and
                    (C) receive proper documents in order to prevent 
                fraud and ensure freedom of movement and access to 
                basic social services;
            (3) creating or expanding a corps of trained asylum 
        officers capable of evaluating and deciding individual asylum 
        claims consistent with international law and obligations; and
            (4) developing the capacity to conduct best interest 
        determinations for unaccompanied alien children to ensure that 
        their needs are properly met, which may include family 
        reunification or resettlement based on international protection 
        needs.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, shall submit a report that describes the plans of 
the Secretary of State to assist in developing the asylum processing 
capabilities described in subsection (a) to--
            (1) the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate;
            (2) the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental 
        Affairs of the Senate;
            (3) the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate;
            (4) the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives;
            (5) the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of 
        Representatives; and
            (6) the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of 
        Representatives.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (a).

Subtitle B--Expanding Refugee Processing in Mexico and Central America 
                     for Third Country Resettlement

SEC. 321. EXPANDING REFUGEE PROCESSING IN MEXICO AND CENTRAL AMERICA 
              FOR THIRD COUNTRY RESETTLEMENT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Homeland Security, shall coordinate with the United 
Nations High Commissioner for Refugees to support and provide technical 
assistance to the Government of Mexico and the governments of other 
countries in the region to increase access to global resettlement for 
eligible children and families with protection needs by--
            (1) establishing and expanding in-country refugee reception 
        centers to meet the humanitarian needs of those seeking 
        international protection;
            (2) improving the refugee registration system to ensure 
        that all refugees--
                    (A) are properly screened for security, including 
                biographic and biometric capture;
                    (B) receive due process and meaningful access to 
                existing legal protections; and
                    (C) receive proper documents in order to prevent 
                fraud and ensure freedom of movement and access to 
                basic social services;
            (3) creating or expanding a corps of trained refugee 
        officers capable of evaluating and deciding individual claims 
        for protection, consistent with international law and 
        obligations; and
            (4) developing the capacity to conduct best interest 
        determinations for unaccompanied alien children to ensure 
        that--
                    (A) such children with international protection 
                needs are properly registered; and
                    (B) their needs are properly met, which may include 
                family reunification or resettlement based on 
                international protection needs.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary 
of Homeland Security, shall submit a report to the committees listed in 
section 311(b) that describes the plans of the Secretary of State to 
assist in developing the refugee processing capabilities described in 
subsection (a).
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out subsection (a).

  Subtitle C--Improving the Efficiency of the Central American Minors 
                                Program

SEC. 331. EXPANSION.

    The Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services shall 
increase the resources directed to the CAM Program, including--
            (1) increasing the number of refugee officers available for 
        in-country processing; and
            (2) establishing additional site locations.

SEC. 332. EXPEDITED PROCESSING.

    Not later than 180 days after receiving a completed application 
from an unaccompanied alien child seeking protection under the CAM 
Program, the Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services 
shall make a final determination on such application unless the 
security screening for such child cannot be completed during the 180-
day period.

SEC. 333. REFERRAL TO UNHCR.

    The Director of U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services or the 
Assistant Secretary of State for the Bureau of Population, Refugees, 
and Migration shall refer any child who is the proposed beneficiary of 
an application under the CAM Program and is facing immediate risk of 
harm to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees for 
registration and safe passage to an established emergency transit 
center for refugees.

TITLE IV--MONITORING AND SUPPORTING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN AFTER 
                        PROCESSING AT THE BORDER

SEC. 401. DEFINITIONS; AUTHORIZATION OF APPROPRIATIONS.

    (a) Definitions.--In this title:
            (1) Department.--Except as otherwise indicated, the term 
        ``Department'' means the Department of Health and Human 
        Services.
            (2) Director.--The term ``Director'' means the Director of 
        the Office of Refugee Resettlement of the Department.
            (3) Local educational agency.--The term ``local educational 
        agency'' has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the 
        Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 
        7801).
            (4) Resident adult.--The term ``resident adult'' means any 
        individual age 18 or older who regularly lives, shares common 
        areas, and sleeps in a sponsor or prospective sponsor's home.
            (5) Secretary.--Except as otherwise indicated, the term 
        ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this title.

   Subtitle A--Strengthening the Government's Ability To Oversee the 
                   Safety and Well-Being of Children

SEC. 411. BACKGROUND CHECKS TO ENSURE THE SAFE PLACEMENT OF 
              UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.

    (a) Criminal and Civil Record Checks.--
            (1) Requirement.--In carrying out the functions transferred 
        to the Director under section 462(a) of the Homeland Security 
        Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(a)), from amounts appropriated 
        pursuant to section 401(b) to carry out this section, the 
        Director shall perform, consistent with best practices in the 
        field of child welfare, and a prospective sponsor and all 
        resident adults in the home of the prospective sponsor shall 
        submit to the following record checks (which shall be completed 
        as expeditiously as possible):
                    (A) Fingerprint-based checks (except as described 
                in paragraph (2)) in national crime information 
                databases, as defined in section 534(e)(3) of title 28, 
                United States Code.
                    (B) A search of the State criminal registry or 
                repository for any State (except as described in 
                paragraph (3)) in which the prospective sponsor or 
                resident adult has resided during the 5 years preceding 
                the search.
                    (C) A search of the National Sex Offender Registry 
                established under section 119 of the Adam Walsh Child 
                Protection and Safety Act of 2006 (42 U.S.C. 16919).
                    (D) A search (except as described in paragraphs (2) 
                and (3)) of State-based child abuse and neglect 
                registries and databases for any State in which the 
                prospective sponsor or resident adult has resided 
                during the 5 years preceding the search.
            (2) Parents and guardians.--For purposes of paragraph (1), 
        if the prospective sponsor is the parent or guardian of the 
        child involved, the Director shall have discretion to determine 
        whether the Director shall perform, and the prospective sponsor 
        and resident adults described in paragraph (1) shall submit to, 
        a check described in subparagraph (A) or (D) of paragraph (1).
            (3) Waivers.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Secretary determines that 
                it is not feasible to conduct the check described in 
                subparagraph (B) or (D) of paragraph (1) for a State, 
                including infeasibility due to a State's refusal or 
                nonresponse in response to a request for related 
                information, or that the average time to receive 
                results from a State for such a check is more than 10 
                business days, the Secretary may waive the requirements 
                of that subparagraph with respect to the State involved 
                for a period of not more than 1 year. The Secretary may 
                renew the waiver in accordance with this subparagraph.
                    (B) Prohibition on delegation.--The Secretary may 
                not delegate the responsibility under subparagraph (A) 
                to another officer or employee of the Department.
                    (C) States where waivers apply.--The Secretary 
                shall make available, on a website of the Department, 
                the list of States for which the requirements of 
                subparagraph (B) or (D) of paragraph (1) are waived 
                under this paragraph.
            (4) Use of record checks.--The information revealed by a 
        record check performed pursuant to this section shall be used 
        only by the Director for the purpose of determining whether a 
        potential sponsor is a suitable sponsor for a placement for an 
        unaccompanied alien child.
    (b) Placement Determinations Generally.--
            (1) Denials required for certain crimes.--The Director 
        shall deny any placement for a prospective sponsor (other than 
        the parent or guardian of the child involved), and may deny any 
        placement for a prospective sponsor who is the parent or 
        guardian of the child involved subject to subsection (c), if 
        the record checks performed pursuant to this section reveal 
        that the prospective sponsor or a resident adult in the home of 
        the prospective sponsor was convicted at age 18 or older of a 
        crime that is a felony consisting of any of the following:
                    (A) Domestic violence, stalking, child abuse, child 
                neglect, or child abandonment, if the prospective 
                sponsor or resident adult served at least 1 year 
                imprisonment for a crime specified in this 
                subparagraph, or if the prospective sponsor or resident 
                adult was convicted of 2 or more crimes specified in 
                this subparagraph, not arising out of a single scheme 
                of criminal misconduct.
                    (B) A crime against a child involving pornography.
                    (C) Human trafficking.
                    (D) Rape or sexual assault.
                    (E) Homicide.
            (2) Denials considered for certain offenses.--The Director 
        may deny a placement for a prospective sponsor if the record 
        checks performed pursuant to this section reveal that the 
        prospective sponsor or a resident adult in the home of a 
        prospective sponsor was adjudged guilty of a civil offense or 
        was convicted of a crime not covered by paragraph (1). The 
        Director, in making a determination about whether to approve or 
        deny the placement, shall consider all of the following 
        factors:
                    (A) The type of offense.
                    (B) The number of offenses the sponsor or resident 
                adult has been adjudged guilty or convicted of.
                    (C) The length of time that has elapsed since the 
                adjudication or conviction.
                    (D) The nature of the offense.
                    (E) The age of the individual at the time of the 
                adjudication or conviction.
                    (F) The relationship between the offense and the 
                capacity to care for a child.
                    (G) Evidence of rehabilitation of the individual.
                    (H) Opinions of community and family members 
                concerning the individual.
    (c) Placement Determinations Concerning Parents or Guardians.--The 
Director may deny a placement for a prospective sponsor who is the 
parent or guardian of the child involved if the record checks performed 
pursuant to this section reveal that the prospective sponsor or a 
resident adult in the home of a prospective sponsor was adjudged guilty 
of a civil offense or was convicted of a crime. The Director, in making 
a determination about whether to approve or deny the placement, shall 
consider all of the factors described in subsection (b)(2).
    (d) Appeals Process.--
            (1) Information.--The Secretary shall provide information 
        to each prospective sponsor on how such sponsor may appeal--
                    (A) a placement determination under this section, 
                including--
                            (i) prompt notice of the opportunity to so 
                        appeal; and
                            (ii) instructions about how to participate 
                        in the appeals process; and
                    (B) the results of a record check performed 
                pursuant to this section or the accuracy or 
                completeness of the information yielded by the record 
                check, as provided in paragraph (2), including--
                            (i) prompt notice of the opportunity to so 
                        appeal; and
                            (ii) instructions about how to participate 
                        in the appeals process.
            (2) Appeal.--Each Federal agency responsible for 
        administering or maintaining the information in a database, 
        registry, or repository used in a record check performed 
        pursuant to this section or responsible for the accuracy or 
        completeness of the information yielded by the record check 
        shall--
                    (A) establish a process for an appeal concerning 
                the results of that record check, or that accuracy or 
                completeness; and
                    (B) complete such process not later than 30 days 
                after the date on which such an appeal is filed.
    (e) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prohibit the Director from establishing additional checks 
or procedures (besides the checks required in this section) for 
sponsors, to enable the Director to--
            (1) oversee and promote the health, safety, and well-being 
        of unaccompanied alien children; or
            (2) prevent the exploitation, neglect, or abuse of 
        unaccompanied alien children.

SEC. 412. RESPONSIBILITY OF SPONSOR FOR IMMIGRATION COURT COMPLIANCE 
              AND CHILD WELL-BEING.

    (a) In General.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
401(b) to carry out this section, the Secretary, in consultation with 
the Attorney General, shall establish procedures to ensure that legal 
orientation programs regarding immigration court and rights and 
responsibilities for the well-being of unaccompanied alien children are 
provided to all prospective sponsors of unaccompanied alien children 
prior to an unaccompanied alien child's placement with such a sponsor.
    (b) Program Elements.--The procedures described in subsection (a) 
shall include a requirement that each legal orientation program 
described in such subsection shall provide information on the sponsor's 
rights and responsibilities to--
            (1) ensure the unaccompanied alien child appears at 
        immigration proceedings and communicate with the court involved 
        regarding the child's change of address and other relevant 
        information;
            (2) immediately enroll the child in school, and shall 
        provide information and resources if the sponsor encounters 
        difficulty enrolling such child in school;
            (3) provide access to health care, including mental health 
        care as needed, and any necessary age-appropriate health 
        screening to the child;
            (4) report potential child traffickers and other persons 
        seeking to victimize or exploit unaccompanied alien children, 
        or otherwise engage such children in criminal, harmful, or 
        dangerous activity;
            (5) seek assistance from the Department regarding the 
        health, safety, and well-being of the child placed with the 
        sponsor; and
            (6) file a complaint, if necessary, with the Secretary or 
        the Secretary of Homeland Security regarding treatment of 
        unaccompanied alien children while under the care of the Office 
        of Refugee Resettlement or the Department of Homeland Security, 
        respectively.

SEC. 413. MONITORING UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.

    (a) Risk-Based Post-Placement Services.--
            (1) In general.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
        section 401(b) to carry out this section, the Secretary shall, 
        to assist each unaccompanied alien child in a placement with a 
        sponsor--
                    (A) complete an individualized assessment of the 
                need for services to be provided after placement; and
                    (B) provide such post-placement services during the 
                pendency of removal proceedings or until no longer 
                necessary.
            (2) Minimum services.--For the purposes of paragraph (1), 
        the services shall, at a minimum, include--
                    (A) for the unaccompanied alien child, at least one 
                post-placement case management services visit within 30 
                days after placement with a sponsor and the referral of 
                unaccompanied alien children to service providers in 
                the community; and
                    (B) for the family of the child's sponsor, 
                orientation and other functional family support 
                services, as determined to be necessary in the 
                individualized assessment.
    (b) Effective Use of Child Advocates for the Most Vulnerable 
Unaccompanied Alien Children.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) direct the Director--
                    (A) to identify and track the referral rates of 
                unaccompanied alien children to child advocates by care 
                providers and investigate instances in which such a 
                rate is low;
                    (B) to ensure that the referral criteria 
                established by the Director are appropriately applied 
                when a care provider determines if such a child is 
                eligible for referral to a child advocate;
                    (C) to provide technical assistance to care 
                providers to ensure compliance with such criteria; and
                    (D) to establish a process for stakeholders and the 
                public to refer unaccompanied alien children, including 
                those placed with a sponsor, to the child advocate 
                program to determine if such child meets the referral 
                criteria for appointment of a child advocate; and
            (2) ensure that each child advocate for an unaccompanied 
        alien child shall--
                    (A) be provided access to materials necessary to 
                advocate effectively for the best interest of the 
                child, including direct access to significant incident 
                reports, home studies, and similar materials and 
                information; and
                    (B) be notified when new materials and information 
                described in subparagraph (A) relating to the child are 
                created or become available.

    Subtitle B--Funding to States and School Districts; Supporting 
                          Education and Safety

SEC. 421. FUNDING TO STATES TO CONDUCT STATE CRIMINAL CHECKS AND CHILD 
              ABUSE AND NEGLECT CHECKS.

    (a) Definition.--In this section, the term ``State'' means each of 
the 50 States of the United States and the District of Columbia.
    (b) Payments to States To Conduct State Criminal Registry or 
Repository Searches and To Conduct Child Abuse and Neglect Checks.--
            (1) In general.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
        section 401(b) to carry out this section, the Secretary shall, 
        in accordance with this subsection, make payments to States, 
        through each agency in each State tasked with administering the 
        State criminal registry or repository required under section 
        411(a)(1)(B) or the State child abuse and neglect registry 
        required under section 411(a)(1)(D), to assist with searches of 
        such registries, repositories, or databases for prospective 
        sponsors of unaccompanied alien children and resident adults in 
        the home of such prospective sponsors, in accordance with 
        section 411.
            (2) Allotments.--
                    (A) State criminal registry and repository 
                searches.--In each fiscal year, using amounts 
                appropriated pursuant to section 401(b) to carry out 
                this section with respect to the program providing 
                payments to States to assist with criminal registry or 
                repository searches, the Secretary shall allot to each 
                State participating in such program, through the agency 
                in each such State tasked with administering the State 
                criminal registry or repository described in section 
                411(a)(1)(B), an amount that bears the same 
                relationship to such funds as the number of searches of 
                such State criminal registry or repository conducted in 
                accordance with section 411(a)(1)(B) in the State bears 
                to the total number of such searches in all States 
                participating in the program.
                    (B) Child abuse and neglect checks.--In each fiscal 
                year, using amounts appropriated pursuant to section 
                401(b) to carry out this section with respect to the 
                program providing payments to States to assist with 
                child abuse and neglect registry and database searches, 
                the Secretary shall allot to each State participating 
                in such program, through the agency in each such State 
                tasked with administering the State child abuse and 
                neglect registries and databases described in section 
                411(a)(1)(D), an amount that bears the same 
                relationship to such funds as the number of searches of 
                such child abuse and neglect registries and databases 
                conducted in accordance with section 411(a)(1)(D) in 
                the State bears to the total number of such searches in 
                all States participating in the program.
                    (C) Transition rule.--In the first fiscal year in 
                which funds are made available under this title to 
                carry out this section, the Secretary shall make 
                allotments to each State participating in the programs 
                under this section in accordance with subparagraphs (A) 
                and (B), based on the Secretary's estimate of the 
                number of the searches described in each such 
                subparagraph, respectively, that each of the States are 
                expected to conduct in such fiscal year.
            (3) State applications.--Each State agency described in 
        paragraph (1) desiring an allotment under subparagraph (A) or 
        (B) of paragraph (2) shall submit an application at such time, 
        in such manner, and containing such information as the 
        Secretary may require, which shall include an assurance that 
        the State agency will respond promptly to all requests from the 
        Director, within a reasonable time period determined by the 
        Director, to conduct a search required under section 411 in a 
        timely manner, and a description of how funds will be used to 
        meet such assurance.

SEC. 422. FUNDING TO SCHOOL DISTRICTS FOR UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN.

    (a) Grants Authorized.--Using amounts appropriated pursuant to 
section 401(b) to carry out this section, the Secretary of Education 
shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible local 
educational agencies, or consortia of neighboring local educational 
agencies, described in subsection (b) to enable the local educational 
agencies or consortia to enhance opportunities for, and provide 
services to, immigrant children and youth, including unaccompanied 
alien children, in the area served by the local educational agencies or 
consortia.
    (b) Eligible Local Educational Agencies.--
            (1) In general.--A local educational agency, or a 
        consortium of neighboring local educational agencies, is 
        eligible for a grant under subsection (a) if, during the fiscal 
        year for which a grant is awarded under this section, there are 
        50 or more unaccompanied alien children enrolled in the public 
        schools served by the local educational agency or the 
        consortium, respectively.
            (2) Determinations of number of unaccompanied alien 
        children.--The Secretary of Education shall determine the 
        number of unaccompanied alien children for purposes of 
        paragraph (1) based on the most accurate data available that is 
        provided to the Secretary of Education by the Director or the 
        Department of Homeland Security.
    (c) Applications.--A local educational agency, or a consortia of 
neighboring local educational agencies, desiring a grant under this 
section shall submit an application to the Secretary of Education at 
such time, in such manner, and containing such information, as the 
Secretary of Education may require, including a description of how the 
grant will be used to enhance opportunities for, and provide services 
to, immigrant children and youth (including unaccompanied alien 
children) and their families.

SEC. 423. IMMEDIATE ENROLLMENT OF UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN IN 
              SCHOOLS.

    To be eligible for funding under the Elementary and Secondary 
Education Act of 1965 (20 U.S.C. 6301 et seq.), a local educational 
agency shall--
            (1) ensure that unaccompanied alien children in the area 
        served by the local educational agency are immediately enrolled 
        in school following placement with a sponsor; and
            (2) remove barriers to enrollment and full participation in 
        educational programs and services offered by the local 
        educational agency for unaccompanied alien children (including 
        barriers related to documentation, age, and language), which 
        shall include reviewing and revising policies that may have a 
        negative effect on such children.

    TITLE V--ENSURING ORDERLY AND HUMANE MANAGEMENT OF CHILDREN AND 
                      FAMILIES SEEKING PROTECTION

 Subtitle A--Providing a Fair and Efficient Legal Process for Children 
                 and Vulnerable Families Seeking Asylum

SEC. 511. COURT APPEARANCE COMPLIANCE AND LEGAL ORIENTATION.

    (a) Access to Legal Orientation Programs To Ensure Court Appearance 
Compliance.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, in 
        consultation with the Attorney General, shall establish 
        procedures, consistent with the procedures established pursuant 
        to section 412, to ensure that legal orientation programs are 
        available for all aliens detained by the Department of Homeland 
        Security.
            (2) Program elements.--Programs under paragraph (1) shall 
        inform aliens described in such paragraph regarding--
                    (A) the basic procedures of immigration hearings;
                    (B) their rights and obligations relating to such 
                hearings under Federal immigration laws to ensure 
                appearance at all immigration proceedings;
                    (C) their rights under Federal immigration laws, 
                including available legal protections and the procedure 
                for requesting such protection;
                    (D) the consequences of filing frivolous legal 
                claims and of failing to appear for proceedings; and
                    (E) any other subject that the Attorney General 
                considers appropriate, such as a contact list of 
                potential legal resources and providers.
            (3) Eligibility.--An alien shall be given access to legal 
        orientation programs under this subsection regardless of the 
        alien's current immigration status, prior immigration history, 
        or potential for immigration relief.
    (b) Pilot Project for Nondetained Aliens in Removal Proceedings.--
            (1) In general.--The Attorney General shall develop and 
        administer a 2-year pilot program at not fewer than 2 
        immigration courts to provide nondetained aliens with pending 
        asylum claims access to legal information.
            (2) Report.--At the conclusion of the pilot program under 
        this subsection, the Attorney General shall submit a report to 
        the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee 
        on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives that describes 
        the extent to which nondetained aliens are provided with access 
        to counsel.
    (c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Executive Office of Immigration Review of the 
Department of Justice such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.

SEC. 512. FAIR DAY IN COURT FOR KIDS.

    (a) Improving Immigration Court Efficiency and Reducing Costs by 
Increasing Access to Legal Information.--
            (1) Appointment of counsel in certain cases; right to 
        review certain documents in removal proceedings.--Section 
        240(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 
        1229a(b)) is amended--
                    (A) in paragraph (4)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``, at no expense 
                                to the Government,''; and
                                    (II) by striking the comma at the 
                                end and inserting a semicolon;
                            (ii) by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and 
                        (C) as subparagraphs (D) and (E), respectively;
                            (iii) by inserting after subparagraph (A) 
                        the following:
                    ``(B) the Attorney General may appoint or provide 
                counsel to aliens in immigration proceedings;
                    ``(C) at the beginning of the proceedings or as 
                expeditiously as possible, the alien shall 
                automatically receive a complete copy of the alien's 
                Alien File (commonly known as an `A-file') and Form I-
                862 (commonly known as a `Notice to Appear') in the 
                possession of the Department of Homeland Security 
                (other than documents protected from disclosure by 
                privilege, including national security information 
                referred to in subparagraph (D), law enforcement 
                sensitive information, and information prohibited from 
                disclosure pursuant to any other provision of law) 
                unless the alien waives the right to receive such 
                documents by executing a knowing and voluntary written 
                waiver in a language that he or she understands 
                fluently;''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (D), as redesignated, 
                        by striking ``, and'' and inserting ``; and''; 
                        and
                    (B) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(8) Failure to provide alien required documents.--In the 
        absence of a waiver under paragraph (4)(C), a removal 
        proceeding may not proceed until the alien--
                    ``(A) has received the documents as required under 
                such paragraph; and
                    ``(B) has been provided meaningful time to review 
                and assess such documents.''.
            (2) Clarification regarding the authority of the attorney 
        general to appoint counsel to aliens in immigration 
        proceedings.--Section 292 of the Immigration and Nationality 
        Act (8 U.S.C. 1362) is amended--
                    (A) by striking ``In any'' and inserting the 
                following:
    ``(a) In General.--In any'';
                    (B) in subsection (a), as redesignated--
                            (i) by striking ``(at no expense to the 
                        Government)''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``he shall'' and inserting 
                        ``the person shall''; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Appointment of Counsel.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Attorney General may appoint or 
        provide counsel to aliens in any proceeding conducted under 
        section 235(b), 236, 238, 240, or 241 or any other section of 
        this Act.
            ``(2) Access to counsel.--The Secretary of Homeland 
        Security shall facilitate access to counsel for--
                    ``(A) aliens in any proceeding conducted under 
                section 235(b), 236, 238, 240, or 241; and
                    ``(B) any individual detained inside an immigration 
                detention facility or a border facility.''.
            (3) Appointment of counsel for unaccompanied alien children 
        and vulnerable aliens.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 292 of the Immigration and 
                Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1362), as amended by 
                paragraph (2), is further amended by adding at the end 
                the following:
    ``(c) Unaccompanied Alien Children and Vulnerable Aliens.--
Notwithstanding subsection (b), the Attorney General shall appoint 
counsel, at the expense of the Government if necessary, at the 
beginning of the proceedings or as expeditiously as possible, to 
represent in such proceedings any alien who has been determined by the 
Secretary of Homeland Security or the Attorney General to be--
            ``(1) an unaccompanied alien child (as defined in section 
        462(g) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 279(g)));
            ``(2) a particularly vulnerable individual, such as--
                    ``(A) a person with a disability (as defined in 
                section 3 of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 
                1990 (42 U.S.C. 12102)); or
                    ``(B) a victim of abuse, torture, or violence; or
            ``(3) an individual whose circumstances are such that the 
        appointment of counsel is necessary to help ensure fair 
        resolution and efficient adjudication of the proceedings.
    ``(d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Executive Office for Immigration Review of the 
Department of Justice such sums as may be necessary to carry out this 
section.''.
                    (B) Rulemaking.--The Attorney General shall 
                promulgate regulations to implement section 292(c) of 
                the Immigration and Nationality Act, as added by 
                subparagraph (A), in accordance with the requirements 
                set forth in section 3006A of title 18, United States 
                Code.
    (b) Case Management Pilot Program To Increase Court Appearance 
Rates.--
            (1) Contract authority.--The Secretary of Homeland Security 
        shall establish a pilot program, which shall include the 
        services set forth in section 413(a)(2), to increase the court 
        appearance rates of aliens described in paragraphs (2) and (3) 
        of section 292(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as 
        added by subsection (a)(3)(A), by contracting with 
        nongovernmental, community-based organizations to provide 
        appropriate case management services to such aliens.
            (2) Scope of services.--Case management services provided 
        under paragraph (1) shall include assisting aliens with--
                    (A) accessing legal counsel;
                    (B) complying with court-imposed deadlines and 
                other legal obligations; and
                    (C) accessing social services, as appropriate.
            (3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to the Department of Homeland Security such 
        sums as may be necessary to carry out this subsection.
    (c) Report on Access to Counsel.--
            (1) Report.--Not later than December 31 of each year, the 
        Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the 
        Attorney General, shall prepare and submit a report to the 
        Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the Committee on 
        the Judiciary of the House of Representatives regarding the 
        extent to which aliens described in section 292(c) of the 
        Immigration and Nationality Act, as added by subsection 
        (a)(3)(A), have been provided access to counsel.
            (2) Contents.--Each report submitted under paragraph (1) 
        shall include, for the immediately preceding 1-year period--
                    (A) the number and percentage of aliens described 
                in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3), respectively, of 
                section 292(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, 
                as added by subsection (a)(3)(A), who were represented 
                by counsel, including information specifying--
                            (i) the stage of the legal process at which 
                        the alien was represented; and
                            (ii) whether the alien was in government 
                        custody; and
                    (B) the number and percentage of aliens who 
                received legal orientation presentations.

      Subtitle B--Reducing Significant Delays in Immigration Court

SEC. 521. ELIMINATE IMMIGRATION COURT BACKLOGS.

    (a) Annual Increases in Immigration Judges.--The Attorney General 
shall increase the total number of immigration judges to adjudicate 
pending cases and efficiently process future cases by at least--
            (1) 55 judges during fiscal year 2017;
            (2) an additional 55 judges during fiscal year 2018; and
            (3) an additional 55 judges during fiscal year 2019.
    (b) Necessary Support Staff for Immigration Judges.--To address the 
shortage of support staff for immigration judges, the Attorney General 
shall ensure that each immigration judge has sufficient support staff, 
adequate technological and security resources, and appropriate 
courtroom facilities.
    (c) Annual Increases in Board of Immigration Appeals Personnel.--
The Attorney General shall increase the number of Board of Immigration 
Appeals staff attorneys (including necessary additional support staff) 
to efficiently process cases by at least--
            (1) 23 attorneys during fiscal year 2017;
            (2) an additional 23 attorneys during fiscal year 2018; and
            (3) an additional 23 attorneys during fiscal year 2019.
    (d) GAO Report.--The Comptroller General of the United States 
shall--
            (1) conduct a study of the hurdles to efficient hiring of 
        immigration court judges within the Department of Justice; and
            (2) propose solutions to Congress for improving the 
        efficiency of the hiring process.

SEC. 522. IMPROVED TRAINING FOR IMMIGRATION JUDGES AND MEMBERS OF THE 
              BOARD OF IMMIGRATION APPEALS.

    (a) In General.--To ensure efficient and fair proceedings, the 
Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review shall 
facilitate robust training programs for immigration judges and members 
of the Board of Immigration Appeals.
    (b) Mandatory Training.--Training facilitated under subsection (a) 
shall include--
            (1) expanding the training program for new immigration 
        judges and Board members;
            (2) continuing education regarding current developments in 
        immigration law through regularly available training resources 
        and an annual conference; and
            (3) methods to ensure that immigration judges are trained 
        on properly crafting and dictating decisions and standards of 
        review, including improved on-bench reference materials and 
        decision templates.

SEC. 523. NEW TECHNOLOGY TO IMPROVE COURT EFFICIENCY.

    The Director of the Executive Office for Immigration Review will 
modernize its case management and related electronic systems, including 
allowing for electronic filing, to improve efficiency in the processing 
of immigration proceedings.

           Subtitle C--Reducing the Likelihood of Remigration

SEC. 531. ESTABLISHING REINTEGRATION AND MONITORING SERVICES FOR 
              REPATRIATING CHILDREN.

    (a) Consultation With UNHCR.--The Secretary of Homeland Security, 
in coordination with the Secretary of Health and Human Services and the 
Secretary of State, shall consult with the United Nations High 
Commissioner for Refugees (referred to in this section as the 
``UNHCR'') to develop a child-centered repatriation process for 
unaccompanied children being returned to their country of origin.
    (b) Collaboration With Regional Governments and Nongovernmental 
Organizations.--The Secretary of State and the Administrator of the 
United States Agency for International Development, in coordination 
with the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall collaborate with 
regional governments and international and domestic nongovernmental 
organizations to reduce children's need to remigrate by--
            (1) establishing and expanding comprehensive reintegration 
        services for repatriated unaccompanied children once returned 
        to their communities of origin;
            (2) establishing monitoring and verification services to 
        determine the well-being of repatriated children in order to 
        determine if United States protection and screening functioned 
        effectively in identifying persecuted and trafficked children; 
        and
            (3) providing emergency referrals to the UNHCR for 
        registration and safe passage to an established emergency 
        transit center for refugees for any repatriated children who 
        are facing immediate risk of harm.
                                 <all>
