[Congressional Bills 114th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 2646 Received in Senate (RDS)]

<DOC>
114th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 2646


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                              July 7, 2016

                                Received

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
  To make available needed psychiatric, psychological, and supportive 
  services for individuals with mental illness and families in mental 
                 health crisis, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE; TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Helping Families 
in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.
    TITLE I--ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE

Sec. 101. Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use.
Sec. 102. Improving oversight of mental health and substance use 
                            programs.
Sec. 103. National Mental Health and Substance Use Policy Laboratory.
Sec. 104. Peer-support specialist programs.
Sec. 105. Prohibition against lobbying using Federal funds by systems 
                            accepting Federal funds to protect and 
                            advocate the rights of individuals with 
                            mental illness.
Sec. 106. Reporting for protection and advocacy organizations.
Sec. 107. Grievance procedure.
Sec. 108. Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality.
Sec. 109. Strategic plan.
Sec. 110. Authorities of centers for mental health services and 
                            substance abuse treatment.
Sec. 111. Advisory councils.
Sec. 112. Peer review.
               TITLE II--MEDICAID MENTAL HEALTH COVERAGE

Sec. 201. Rule of construction related to Medicaid coverage of mental 
                            health services and primary care services 
                            furnished on the same day.
Sec. 202. Optional limited coverage of inpatient services furnished in 
                            institutions for mental diseases.
Sec. 203. Study and report related to Medicaid managed care regulation.
Sec. 204. Guidance on opportunities for innovation.
Sec. 205. Study and report on Medicaid emergency psychiatric 
                            demonstration project.
Sec. 206. Providing EPSDT services to children in IMDs.
Sec. 207. Electronic visit verification system required for personal 
                            care services and home health care services 
                            under Medicaid.
   TITLE III--INTERDEPARTMENTAL SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING 
                               COMMITTEE

Sec. 301. Interdepartmental Serious Mental Illness Coordinating 
                            Committee.
             TITLE IV--COMPASSIONATE COMMUNICATION ON HIPAA

Sec. 401. Sense of Congress.
Sec. 402. Confidentiality of records.
Sec. 403. Clarification of circumstances under which disclosure of 
                            protected health information is permitted.
Sec. 404. Development and dissemination of model training programs.
   TITLE V--INCREASING ACCESS TO TREATMENT FOR SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS

Sec. 501. Assertive community treatment grant program for individuals 
                            with serious mental illness.
Sec. 502. Strengthening community crisis response systems.
Sec. 503. Increased and extended funding for assisted outpatient grant 
                            program for individuals with serious mental 
                            illness.
Sec. 504. Liability protections for health professional volunteers at 
                            community health centers.
      TITLE VI--SUPPORTING INNOVATIVE AND EVIDENCE-BASED PROGRAMS

Subtitle A--Encouraging the Advancement, Incorporation, and Development 
                      of Evidence-Based Practices

Sec. 601. Encouraging innovation and evidence-based programs.
Sec. 602. Promoting access to information on evidence-based programs 
                            and practices.
Sec. 603. Sense of Congress.
    Subtitle B--Supporting the State Response to Mental Health Needs

Sec. 611. Community Mental Health Services Block Grant.
     Subtitle C--Strengthening Mental Health Care for Children and 
                              Adolescents

Sec. 621. Tele-mental health care access grants.
Sec. 622. Infant and early childhood mental health promotion, 
                            intervention, and treatment.
Sec. 623. National Child Traumatic Stress Initiative.
         TITLE VII--GRANT PROGRAMS AND PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION

       Subtitle A--Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act Reauthorization

Sec. 701. Youth interagency research, training, and technical 
                            assistance centers.
Sec. 702. Youth suicide early intervention and prevention strategies.
Sec. 703. Mental health and substance use disorder services on campus.
                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

Sec. 711. National Suicide Prevention Lifeline Program.
Sec. 712. Workforce development studies and reports.
Sec. 713. Minority Fellowship Program.
Sec. 714. Center and program repeals.
Sec. 715. National violent death reporting system.
Sec. 716. Sense of Congress on prioritizing Native American youth and 
                            suicide prevention programs.
Sec. 717. Peer professional workforce development grant program.
Sec. 718. National Health Service Corps.
Sec. 719. Adult suicide prevention.
Sec. 720. Crisis intervention grants for police officers and first 
                            responders.
Sec. 721. Demonstration grant program to train health service 
                            psychologists in community-based mental 
                            health.
Sec. 722. Investment in tomorrow's pediatric health care workforce.
Sec. 723. CUTGO compliance.
                    TITLE VIII--MENTAL HEALTH PARITY

Sec. 801. Enhanced compliance with mental health and substance use 
                            disorder coverage requirements.
Sec. 802. Action plan for enhanced enforcement of mental health and 
                            substance use disorder coverage.
Sec. 803. Report on investigations regarding parity in mental health 
                            and substance use disorder benefits.
Sec. 804. GAO study on parity in mental health and substance use 
                            disorder benefits.
Sec. 805. Information and awareness on eating disorders.
Sec. 806. Education and training on eating disorders.
Sec. 807. GAO study on preventing discriminatory coverage limitations 
                            for individuals with serious mental illness 
                            and substance use disorders.
Sec. 808. Clarification of existing parity rules.

    TITLE I--ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE

SEC. 101. ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE.

    (a) Assistant Secretary.--Section 501(c) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(c) Assistant Secretary and Deputy Assistant Secretary.--
            ``(1) Assistant secretary.--
                    ``(A) Appointment.--The Administration shall be 
                headed by an official to be known as the Assistant 
                Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use 
                (hereinafter in this title referred to as the 
                `Assistant Secretary') who shall be appointed by the 
                President, by and with the advice and consent of the 
                Senate.
                    ``(B) Qualifications.--In selecting the Assistant 
                Secretary, the President shall give preference to 
                individuals who have--
                            ``(i) a doctoral degree in medicine, 
                        osteopathic medicine, or psychology;
                            ``(ii) clinical and research experience 
                        regarding mental health and substance use 
                        disorders; and
                            ``(iii) an understanding of biological, 
                        psychosocial, and pharmaceutical treatments of 
                        mental illness and substance use disorders.
            ``(2) Deputy assistant secretary.--The Assistant Secretary, 
        with the approval of the Secretary, may appoint a Deputy 
        Assistant Secretary and may employ and prescribe the functions 
        of such officers and employees, including attorneys, as are 
        necessary to administer the activities to be carried out 
        through the Administration.''.
    (b) Transfer of Authorities.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall delegate to the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health 
and Substance Use all duties and authorities that--
            (1) as of the day before the date of enactment of this Act, 
        were vested in the Administrator of the Substance Abuse and 
        Mental Health Services Administration; and
            (2) are not terminated by this Act.
    (c) Evaluation.--Section 501(d) of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 290aa(d)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (17), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (18), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting a semicolon; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(19) evaluate, in consultation with the Assistant 
        Secretary for Financial Resources, the information used for 
        oversight of grants under programs related to mental illness 
        and substance use disorders, including co-occurring illness or 
        disorders, administered by the Center for Mental Health 
        Services;
            ``(20) periodically review Federal programs and activities 
        relating to the diagnosis or prevention of, or treatment or 
        rehabilitation for, mental illness and substance use disorders 
        to identify any such programs or activities that have proven to 
        be effective or efficient in improving outcomes or increasing 
        access to evidence-based programs;
            ``(21) establish standards for the appointment of peer-
        review panels to evaluate grant applications and recommend 
        standards for mental health grant programs; and''.
    (d) Standards for Grant Programs.--Section 501(d) of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa(d)), as amended by subsection (c), 
is further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(22) in consultation with the National Mental Health and 
        Substance Use Policy Laboratory, and after providing an 
        opportunity for public input, set standards for grant programs 
        under this title for mental health and substance use services, 
        which may address--
                    ``(A) the capacity of the grantee to implement the 
                award;
                    ``(B) requirements for the description of the 
                program implementation approach;
                    ``(C) the extent to which the grant plan submitted 
                by the grantee as part of its application must explain 
                how the grantee will reach the population of focus and 
                provide a statement of need, including to what extent 
                the grantee will increase the number of clients served 
                and the estimated percentage of clients receiving 
                services who report positive functioning after 6 months 
                or no past-month substance use, as applicable;
                    ``(D) the extent to which the grantee must collect 
                and report on required performance measures; and
                    ``(E) the extent to which the grantee is proposing 
                evidence-based practices and the extent to which--
                            ``(i) those evidence-based practices must 
                        be used with respect to a population similar to 
                        the population for which the evidence-based 
                        practices were shown to be effective; or
                            ``(ii) if no evidence-based practice exists 
                        for a population of focus, the way in which the 
                        grantee will implement adaptations of evidence-
                        based practices, promising practices, or 
                        cultural practices.''.
    (e) Emergency Response.--Section 501(m) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa(m)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(4) Availability of funds through following fiscal 
        year.--Amounts made available for carrying out this subsection 
        shall remain available through the end of the fiscal year 
        following the fiscal year for which such amounts are 
        appropriated.''.
    (f) Member of Council on Graduate Medical Education.--Section 762 
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290o) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by redesignating paragraphs (4), (5), and (6) 
                as paragraphs (5), (6), and (7), respectively; and
                    (B) by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:
            ``(4) the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
        Substance Use;''; and
            (2) in subsection (c), by striking ``(4), (5), and (6)'' 
        each place it appears and inserting ``(5), (6), and (7)''.
    (g) Conforming Amendments.--Title V of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.), as amended by the previous provisions of 
this section, is further amended--
            (1) by striking ``Administrator of the Substance Abuse and 
        Mental Health Services Administration'' each place it appears 
        and inserting ``Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
        Substance Use''; and
            (2) by striking ``Administrator'' each place it appears 
        (including in any headings) and inserting ``Assistant 
        Secretary'', except where the term ``Administrator'' appears--
                    (A) in each of subsections (e) and (f) of section 
                501 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa), including the 
                headings of such subsections, within the term 
                ``Associate Administrator'';
                    (B) in section 507(b)(6) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
                290bb(b)(6)), within the term ``Administrator of the 
                Health Resources and Services Administration'';
                    (C) in section 507(b)(6) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
                290bb(b)(6)), within the term ``Administrator of the 
                Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services'';
                    (D) in section 519B(c)(1)(B) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
                290bb-25b(c)(1)(B)), within the term ``Administrator of 
                the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration''; 
                or
                    (E) in each of sections 519B(c)(1)(B), 520C(a), and 
                520D(a) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-25b(c)(1)(B), 
                290bb-34(a), 290bb-35(a)), within the term 
                ``Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and 
                Delinquency Prevention''.
    (h) References.--After executing subsections (a), (b), and (f), any 
reference in statute, regulation, or guidance to the Administrator of 
the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration shall be 
construed to be a reference to the Assistant Secretary for Mental 
Health and Substance Use.

SEC. 102. IMPROVING OVERSIGHT OF MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              PROGRAMS.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting 
after section 501 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa) the following:

``SEC. 501A. IMPROVING OVERSIGHT OF MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              PROGRAMS.

    ``(a) Activities.--For the purpose of ensuring efficient and 
effective planning and evaluation of mental illness and substance use 
disorder programs and related activities, the Assistant Secretary for 
Planning and Evaluation, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary 
for Mental Health and Substance Use, shall--
            ``(1) collect and organize relevant data on homelessness, 
        involvement with the criminal justice system, hospitalizations, 
        mortality outcomes, and other measures the Secretary deems 
        appropriate from across Federal departments and agencies;
            ``(2) evaluate programs related to mental illness and 
        substance use disorders, including co-occurring illness or 
        disorders, across Federal departments and agencies, as 
        appropriate, including programs related to--
                    ``(A) prevention, intervention, treatment, and 
                recovery support services, including such services for 
                individuals with a serious mental illness or serious 
                emotional disturbance;
                    ``(B) the reduction of homelessness and involvement 
                with the criminal justice system among individuals with 
                a mental illness or substance use disorder; and
                    ``(C) public health and health services; and
            ``(3) consult, as appropriate, with the Assistant 
        Secretary, the Behavioral Health Coordinating Council of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services, other agencies within 
        the Department of Health and Human Services, and other relevant 
        Federal departments.
    ``(b) Recommendations.--The Assistant Secretary for Planning and 
Evaluation shall develop an evaluation strategy that identifies 
priority programs to be evaluated by the Assistant Secretary and 
priority programs to be evaluated by other relevant agencies within the 
Department of Health and Human Services. The Assistant Secretary for 
Planning and Evaluation shall provide recommendations on improving 
programs and activities based on the evaluation described in subsection 
(a)(2) as needing improvement.''.

SEC. 103. NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE POLICY LABORATORY.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) 
is amended by inserting after section 501A, as added by section 102 of 
this Act, the following:

``SEC. 501B. NATIONAL MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE POLICY 
              LABORATORY.

    ``(a) In General.--There shall be established within the 
Administration a National Mental Health and Substance Use Policy 
Laboratory (referred to in this section as the `Laboratory').
    ``(b) Responsibilities.--The Laboratory shall--
            ``(1) continue to carry out the authorities and activities 
        that were in effect for the Office of Policy, Planning, and 
        Innovation as such Office existed prior to the date of 
        enactment of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act 
        of 2016;
            ``(2) identify, coordinate, and facilitate the 
        implementation of policy changes likely to have a significant 
        effect on mental health, mental illness, and the prevention and 
        treatment of substance use disorder services;
            ``(3) collect, as appropriate, information from grantees 
        under programs operated by the Administration in order to 
        evaluate and disseminate information on evidence-based 
        practices, including culturally and linguistically appropriate 
        services, as appropriate, and service delivery models;
            ``(4) provide leadership in identifying and coordinating 
        policies and programs, including evidence-based programs, 
        related to mental illness and substance use disorders;
            ``(5) recommend ways in which payers may implement program 
        and policy findings of the Administration and the Laboratory to 
        improve outcomes and reduce per capita program costs;
            ``(6) in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for 
        Planning and Evaluation, as appropriate, periodically review 
        Federal programs and activities relating to the diagnosis or 
        prevention of, or treatment or rehabilitation for, mental 
        illness and substance use disorders, including by--
                    ``(A) identifying any such programs or activities 
                that are duplicative;
                    ``(B) identifying any such programs or activities 
                that are not evidence-based, effective, or efficient; 
                and
                    ``(C) formulating recommendations for coordinating, 
                eliminating, or improving programs or activities 
                identified under subparagraph (A) or (B) and merging 
                such programs or activities into other successful 
                programs or activities; and
            ``(7) carry out other activities as deemed necessary to 
        continue to encourage innovation and disseminate evidence-based 
        programs and practices, including programs and practices with 
        scientific merit.
    ``(c) Evidence-Based Practices and Service Delivery Models.--
            ``(1) In general.--In selecting evidence-based best 
        practices and service delivery models for evaluation and 
        dissemination, the Laboratory--
                    ``(A) shall give preference to models that 
                improve--
                            ``(i) the coordination between mental 
                        health and physical health providers;
                            ``(ii) the coordination among such 
                        providers and the justice and corrections 
                        system; and
                            ``(iii) the cost effectiveness, quality, 
                        effectiveness, and efficiency of health care 
                        services furnished to individuals with serious 
                        mental illness or serious emotional 
                        disturbance, in mental health crisis, or at 
                        risk to themselves, their families, and the 
                        general public; and
                    ``(B) may include clinical protocols and practices 
                used in the Recovery After Initial Schizophrenia 
                Episode (RAISE) project and the North American Prodrome 
                Longitudinal Study (NAPLS) of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health.
            ``(2) Deadline for beginning implementation.--The 
        Laboratory shall begin implementation of the duties described 
        in this section not later than January 1, 2018.
            ``(3) Consultation.--In carrying out the duties under this 
        section, the Laboratory shall consult with--
                    ``(A) representatives of the National Institute of 
                Mental Health, the National Institute on Drug Abuse, 
                and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
                Alcoholism, on an ongoing basis;
                    ``(B) other appropriate Federal agencies;
                    ``(C) clinical and analytical experts with 
                expertise in psychiatric medical care and clinical 
                psychological care, health care management, education, 
                corrections health care, and mental health court 
                systems, as appropriate; and
                    ``(D) other individuals and agencies as determined 
                appropriate by the Assistant Secretary.''.

SEC. 104. PEER-SUPPORT SPECIALIST PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct 
a study on peer-support specialist programs in up to 10 States (to be 
selected by the Comptroller General) that receive funding from the 
Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration and submit to 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate 
and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives a report containing the results of such study.
    (b) Contents of Study.--In conducting the study under subsection 
(a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall examine and 
identify best practices in the selected States related to training and 
credential requirements for peer-support specialist programs, such as--
            (1) hours of formal work or volunteer experience related to 
        mental illness and substance use disorders conducted through 
        such programs;
            (2) types of peer-support specialist exams required for 
        such programs in the States;
            (3) codes of ethics used by such programs in the States;
            (4) required or recommended skill sets of such programs in 
        the State; and
            (5) requirements for continuing education.

SEC. 105. PROHIBITION AGAINST LOBBYING USING FEDERAL FUNDS BY SYSTEMS 
              ACCEPTING FEDERAL FUNDS TO PROTECT AND ADVOCATE THE 
              RIGHTS OF INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS.

    Section 105(a) of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (10), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(11) agree to refrain, during any period for which 
        funding is provided to the system under this part, from using 
        Federal funds to pay the salary or expenses of any grant or 
        contract recipient, or agent acting for such recipient, related 
        to any activity designed to influence the enactment of 
        legislation, appropriations, regulation, administrative action, 
        or Executive order proposed or pending before the Congress or 
        any State or local government, including any legislative body, 
        other than for normal and recognized executive-legislative 
        relationships or participation by an agency or officer of a 
        State, local, or tribal government in policymaking and 
        administrative processes within the executive branch of that 
        government.''.

SEC. 106. REPORTING FOR PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY ORGANIZATIONS.

    (a) Public Availability of Reports.--Section 105(a)(7) of the 
Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 
U.S.C. 10805(a)(7)) is amended by striking ``is located a report'' and 
inserting ``is located, and make publicly available, a report''.
    (b) Detailed Accounting.--Section 114(a) of the Protection and 
Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10824(a)) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (3), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (4), by striking the period at the end and 
        inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(5) using data from the existing required annual program 
        progress reports submitted by each system funded under this 
        title, a detailed accounting for each such system of how funds 
        are spent, disaggregated according to whether the funds were 
        received from the Federal Government, the State government, a 
        local government, or a private entity.''.

SEC. 107. GRIEVANCE PROCEDURE.

    Section 105 of the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with 
Mental Illness Act (42 U.S.C. 10805), as amended, is further amended by 
adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Grievance Procedure.--The Secretary shall establish an 
independent grievance procedure for persons described in subsection 
(a)(9).''.

SEC. 108. CENTER FOR BEHAVIORAL HEALTH STATISTICS AND QUALITY.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) 
is amended--
            (1) in section 501(b) (42 U.S.C. 290aa(b)), by adding at 
        the end the following:
            ``(4) The Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and 
        Quality.'';
            (2) in section 502(a)(1) (42 U.S.C. 290aa-1(a)(1))--
                    (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``and'' at the 
                end;
                    (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at 
                the end and inserting ``; and''; and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (D) the 
                following:
                    ``(E) the Center for Behavioral Health Statistics 
                and Quality.''; and
            (3) in part B (42 U.S.C. 290bb et seq.) by adding at the 
        end the following new subpart:

    ``Subpart 4--Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality

``SEC. 520L. CENTER FOR BEHAVIORAL HEALTH STATISTICS AND QUALITY.

    ``(a) Establishment.--There is established in the Administration a 
Center for Behavioral Health Statistics and Quality (in this section 
referred to as the `Center'). The Center shall be headed by a Director 
(in this section referred to as the `Director') appointed by the 
Secretary from among individuals with extensive experience and academic 
qualifications in research and analysis in behavioral health care or 
related fields.
    ``(b) Duties.--The Director of the Center shall--
            ``(1) coordinate the Administration's integrated data 
        strategy by coordinating--
                    ``(A) surveillance and data collection (including 
                that authorized by section 505);
                    ``(B) evaluation;
                    ``(C) statistical and analytic support;
                    ``(D) service systems research; and
                    ``(E) performance and quality information systems;
            ``(2) recommend a core set of measurement standards for 
        grant programs administered by the Administration; and
            ``(3) coordinate evaluation efforts for the grant programs, 
        contracts, and collaborative agreements of the Administration.
    ``(c) Biannual Report to Congress.--Not later than 2 years after 
the date of enactment of this section, and every 2 years thereafter, 
the Director of the Center shall submit to Congress a report on the 
quality of services furnished through grant programs of the 
Administration, including applicable measures of outcomes for 
individuals and public outcomes such as--
            ``(1) the number of patients screened positive for 
        unhealthy alcohol use who receive brief counseling as 
        appropriate; the number of patients screened positive for 
        tobacco use and receiving smoking cessation interventions; the 
        number of patients with a new diagnosis of major depressive 
        episode who are assessed for suicide risk; the number of 
        patients screened positive for clinical depression with a 
        documented followup plan; and the number of patients with a 
        documented pain assessment that have a followup treatment plan 
        when pain is present; and satisfaction with care;
            ``(2) the incidence and prevalence of mental illness and 
        substance use disorders; the number of suicide attempts and 
        suicide completions; overdoses seen in emergency rooms 
        resulting from alcohol and drug use; emergency room boarding; 
        overdose deaths; emergency psychiatric hospitalizations; new 
        criminal justice involvement while in treatment; stable 
        housing; and rates of involvement in employment, education, and 
        training; and
            ``(3) such other measures for outcomes of services as the 
        Director may determine.
    ``(d) Staffing Composition.--The staff of the Center may include 
individuals with advanced degrees and field expertise as well as 
clinical and research experience in mental illness and substance use 
disorders such as--
            ``(1) professionals with clinical and research expertise in 
        the prevention and treatment of, and recovery from, mental 
        illness and substance use disorders;
            ``(2) professionals with training and expertise in 
        statistics or research and survey design and methodologies; and
            ``(3) other related fields in the social and behavioral 
        sciences, as specified by relevant position descriptions.
    ``(e) Grants and Contracts.--In carrying out the duties established 
in subsection (b), the Director may make grants to, and enter into 
contracts and cooperative agreements with, public and nonprofit private 
entities.
    ``(f) Definition.--In this section, the term `emergency room 
boarding' means the practice of admitting patients to an emergency 
department and holding such patients in the department until inpatient 
psychiatric beds become available.''.

SEC. 109. STRATEGIC PLAN.

    Section 501 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa) is 
further amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsections (l) through (o) as 
        subsections (m) through (p), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (k) the following:
    ``(l) Strategic Plan.--
            ``(1) In general.--Not later than December 1, 2017, and 
        every 5 years thereafter, the Assistant Secretary shall develop 
        and carry out a strategic plan in accordance with this 
        subsection for the planning and operation of evidence-based 
        programs and grants carried out by the Administration.
            ``(2) Coordination.--In developing and carrying out the 
        strategic plan under this section, the Assistant Secretary 
        shall take into consideration the report of the 
        Interdepartmental Serious Mental Illness Coordinating Committee 
        under section 301 of the Helping Families in Mental Health 
        Crisis Act of 2016.
            ``(3) Publication of plan.--Not later than December 1, 
        2017, and every 5 years thereafter, the Assistant Secretary 
        shall--
                    ``(A) submit the strategic plan developed under 
                paragraph (1) to the appropriate committees of 
                Congress; and
                    ``(B) post such plan on the Internet website of the 
                Administration.
            ``(4) Contents.--The strategic plan developed under 
        paragraph (1) shall--
                    ``(A) identify strategic priorities, goals, and 
                measurable objectives for mental illness and substance 
                use disorder activities and programs operated and 
                supported by the Administration, including priorities 
                to prevent or eliminate the burden of mental illness 
                and substance use disorders;
                    ``(B) identify ways to improve services for 
                individuals with a mental illness or substance use 
                disorder, including services related to the prevention 
                of, diagnosis of, intervention in, treatment of, and 
                recovery from, mental illness or substance use 
                disorders, including serious mental illness or serious 
                emotional disturbance, and access to services and 
                supports for individuals with a serious mental illness 
                or serious emotional disturbance;
                    ``(C) ensure that programs provide, as appropriate, 
                access to effective and evidence-based prevention, 
                diagnosis, intervention, treatment, and recovery 
                services, including culturally and linguistically 
                appropriate services, as appropriate, for individuals 
                with a mental illness or substance use disorder;
                    ``(D) identify opportunities to collaborate with 
                the Health Resources and Services Administration to 
                develop or improve--
                            ``(i) initiatives to encourage individuals 
                        to pursue careers (especially in rural and 
                        underserved areas and populations) as 
                        psychiatrists, psychologists, psychiatric nurse 
                        practitioners, physician assistants, 
                        occupational therapists, clinical social 
                        workers, certified peer-support specialists, 
                        licensed professional counselors, or other 
                        licensed or certified mental health 
                        professionals, including such professionals 
                        specializing in the diagnosis, evaluation, or 
                        treatment of individuals with a serious mental 
                        illness or serious emotional disturbance; and
                            ``(ii) a strategy to improve the 
                        recruitment, training, and retention of a 
                        workforce for the treatment of individuals with 
                        mental illness or substance use disorders, or 
                        co-occurring illness or disorders;
                    ``(E) identify opportunities to improve 
                collaboration with States, local governments, 
                communities, and Indian tribes and tribal organizations 
                (as such terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian 
                Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 
                U.S.C. 450b)); and
                    ``(F) specify a strategy to disseminate evidenced-
                based and promising best practices related to 
                prevention, diagnosis, early intervention, treatment, 
                and recovery services related to mental illness, 
                particularly for individuals with a serious mental 
                illness and children and adolescents with a serious 
                emotional disturbance, and substance use disorders.''.

SEC. 110. AUTHORITIES OF CENTERS FOR MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES AND 
              SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT.

    (a) Center for Mental Health Services.--Section 520(b) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-31(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (3) through (15) as 
        paragraphs (4) through (16), respectively;
            (2) by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:
            ``(3) collaborate with the Director of the National 
        Institute of Mental Health to ensure that, as appropriate, 
        programs related to the prevention and treatment of mental 
        illness and the promotion of mental health are carried out in a 
        manner that reflects the best available science and evidence-
        based practices, including culturally and linguistically 
        appropriate services;'';
            (3) in paragraph (5), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        ``through policies and programs that reduce risk and promote 
        resiliency'' before the semicolon;
            (4) in paragraph (6), as so redesignated, by inserting ``in 
        collaboration with the Director of the National Institute of 
        Mental Health,'' before ``develop'';
            (5) in paragraph (8), as so redesignated, by inserting ``, 
        increase meaningful participation of individuals with mental 
        illness in programs and activities of the Administration,'' 
        before ``and protect the legal'';
            (6) in paragraph (10), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``professional and paraprofessional personnel pursuant to 
        section 303'' and inserting ``paraprofessional personnel and 
        health professionals'';
            (7) in paragraph (11), as so redesignated, by inserting 
        ``and telemental health,'' after ``rural mental health,'';
            (8) in paragraph (12), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``establish a clearinghouse for mental health information to 
        assure the widespread dissemination of such information'' and 
        inserting ``disseminate mental health information, including 
        evidenced-based practices,'';
            (9) in paragraph (15), as so redesignated, by striking 
        ``and'' at the end;
            (10) in paragraph (16), as so redesignated, by striking the 
        period and inserting ``; and''; and
            (11) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(17) consult with other agencies and offices of the 
        Department of Health and Human Services to ensure, with respect 
        to each grant awarded by the Center for Mental Health Services, 
        the consistent documentation of the application of criteria 
        when awarding grants and the ongoing oversight of grantees 
        after such grants are awarded.''.
    (b) Director of the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment.--Section 
507 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``treatment of substance abuse'' 
                and inserting ``treatment of substance use disorders''; 
                and
                    (B) by striking ``abuse treatment systems'' and 
                inserting ``use disorder treatment systems''; and
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in paragraph (3), by striking ``abuse'' and 
                inserting ``use disorder'';
                    (B) in paragraph (4), by striking ``individuals who 
                abuse drugs'' and inserting ``individuals who use 
                drugs'';
                    (C) in paragraph (9), by striking ``carried out by 
                the Director'';
                    (D) by striking paragraph (10);
                    (E) by redesignating paragraphs (11) through (14) 
                as paragraphs (10) through (13), respectively;
                    (F) in paragraph (12), as so redesignated, by 
                striking ``; and'' and inserting a semicolon; and
                    (G) by striking paragraph (13), as so redesignated, 
                and inserting the following:
            ``(13) ensure the consistent documentation of the 
        application of criteria when awarding grants and the ongoing 
        oversight of grantees after such grants are awarded; and
            ``(14) work with States, providers, and individuals in 
        recovery, and their families, to promote the expansion of 
        recovery support services and systems of care oriented towards 
        recovery.''.

SEC. 111. ADVISORY COUNCILS.

    Section 502(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-
1(b)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (E), by striking ``and'' after 
                the semicolon;
                    (B) by redesignating subparagraph (F) as 
                subparagraph (I); and
                    (C) by inserting after subparagraph (E), the 
                following:
                    ``(F) for the advisory councils appointed under 
                subsections (a)(1)(A) and (a)(1)(D), the Director of 
                the National Institute of Mental Health;
                    ``(G) for the advisory councils appointed under 
                subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), and (a)(1)(C), the 
                Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse;
                    ``(H) for the advisory councils appointed under 
                subsections (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), and (a)(1)(C), the 
                Director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
                Alcoholism; and''; and
            (2) in paragraph (3), by adding at the end the following:
                    ``(C) Not less than half of the members of the 
                advisory council appointed under subsection (a)(1)(D)--
                            ``(i) shall have--
                                    ``(I) a medical degree;
                                    ``(II) a doctoral degree in 
                                psychology; or
                                    ``(III) an advanced degree in 
                                nursing or social work from an 
                                accredited graduate school or be a 
                                certified physician assistant; and
                            ``(ii) shall specialize in the mental 
                        health field.''.

SEC. 112. PEER REVIEW.

    Section 504(b) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa-
3(b)) is amended by adding at the end the following: ``In the case of 
any such peer review group that is reviewing a grant, cooperative 
agreement, or contract related to mental illness treatment, not less 
than half of the members of such peer review group shall be licensed 
and experienced professionals in the prevention, diagnosis, or 
treatment of, or recovery from, mental illness or substance use 
disorders and have a medical degree, a doctoral degree in psychology, 
or an advanced degree in nursing or social work from an accredited 
program.''.

               TITLE II--MEDICAID MENTAL HEALTH COVERAGE

SEC. 201. RULE OF CONSTRUCTION RELATED TO MEDICAID COVERAGE OF MENTAL 
              HEALTH SERVICES AND PRIMARY CARE SERVICES FURNISHED ON 
              THE SAME DAY.

    Nothing in title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
seq.) shall be construed as prohibiting separate payment under the 
State plan under such title (or under a waiver of the plan) for the 
provision of a mental health service or primary care service under such 
plan, with respect to an individual, because such service is--
            (1) a primary care service furnished to the individual by a 
        provider at a facility on the same day a mental health service 
        is furnished to such individual by such provider (or another 
        provider) at the facility; or
            (2) a mental health service furnished to the individual by 
        a provider at a facility on the same day a primary care service 
        is furnished to such individual by such provider (or another 
        provider) at the facility.

SEC. 202. OPTIONAL LIMITED COVERAGE OF INPATIENT SERVICES FURNISHED IN 
              INSTITUTIONS FOR MENTAL DISEASES.

    (a) In General.--Section 1903(m)(2) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396b(m)(2)) is amended by adding at the end the following new 
subparagraph:
    ``(I)(i) Notwithstanding the limitation specified in the 
subdivision (B) following paragraph (29) of section 1905(a) and subject 
to clause (ii), a State may, under a risk contract entered into by the 
State under this title (or under section 1115) with a medicaid managed 
care organization or a prepaid inpatient health plan (as defined in 
section 438.2 of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or any 
successor regulation)), make a monthly capitation payment to such 
organization or plan for enrollees with the organization or plan who 
are over 21 years of age and under 65 years of age and are receiving 
inpatient treatment in an institution for mental diseases (as defined 
in section 1905(i)), so long as each of the following conditions is 
met:
            ``(I) The institution is a hospital providing inpatient 
        psychiatric or substance use disorder services or a sub-acute 
        facility providing psychiatric or substance use disorder crisis 
        residential services.
            ``(II) The length of stay in such an institution for such 
        treatment is for a short-term stay of no more than 15 days 
        during the period of the monthly capitation payment.
            ``(III) The provision of such treatment meets the following 
        criteria for consideration as services or settings that are 
        provided in lieu of services or settings covered under the 
        State plan:
                    ``(aa) The State determines that the alternative 
                service or setting is a medically appropriate and cost-
                effective substitute for the service or setting covered 
                under the State plan.
                    ``(bb) The enrollee is not required by the managed 
                care organization or prepaid inpatient health plan to 
                use the alternative service or setting.
                    ``(cc) Such treatment is authorized and identified 
                in such contract, and will be offered to such enrollees 
                at the option of the managed care organization or 
                prepaid inpatient health plan.
    ``(ii) For purposes of setting the amount of such a monthly 
capitation payment, a State may use the utilization of services 
provided to an individual under this subparagraph when developing the 
inpatient psychiatric or substance use disorder component of such 
payment, but the amount of such payment for such services may not 
exceed the cost of the same services furnished through providers 
included under the State plan.''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply beginning on July 5, 2016, or the date of the enactment of this 
Act, whichever is later.

SEC. 203. STUDY AND REPORT RELATED TO MEDICAID MANAGED CARE REGULATION.

    (a) Study.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting 
through the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid 
Services, shall conduct a study on coverage under the Medicaid program 
under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) of 
services provided through a medicaid managed care organization (as 
defined in section 1903(m) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(m)) or a 
prepaid inpatient health plan (as defined in section 438.2 of title 42, 
Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)) with respect 
to individuals over the age of 21 and under the age of 65 for the 
treatment of a mental health disorder in institutions for mental 
diseases (as defined in section 1905(i) of such Act (42 U.S.C. 
1396d(i))). Such study shall include information on the following:
            (1) The extent to which States, including the District of 
        Columbia and each territory or possession of the United States, 
        are providing capitated payments to such organizations or plans 
        for enrollees who are receiving services in institutions for 
        mental diseases.
            (2) The number of individuals receiving medical assistance 
        under a State plan under such title XIX, or a waiver of such 
        plan, who receive services in institutions for mental diseases 
        through such organizations and plans.
            (3) The range of and average number of months, and the 
        length of stay during such months, that such individuals are 
        receiving such services in such institutions.
            (4) How such organizations or plans determine when to 
        provide for the furnishing of such services through an 
        institution for mental diseases in lieu of other benefits 
        (including the full range of community-based services) under 
        their contract with the State agency administering the State 
        plan under such title XIX, or a waiver of such plan, to address 
        psychiatric or substance use disorder treatment.
            (5) The extent to which the provision of services within 
        such institutions has affected the capitated payments for such 
        organizations or plans.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the 
study conducted under subsection (a).

SEC. 204. GUIDANCE ON OPPORTUNITIES FOR INNOVATION.

    Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services shall 
issue a State Medicaid Director letter regarding opportunities to 
design innovative service delivery systems, including systems for 
providing community-based services, for individuals with serious mental 
illness or serious emotional disturbance who are receiving medical 
assistance under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 
et seq.). The letter shall include opportunities for demonstration 
projects under section 1115 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 1315), to improve 
care for such individuals.

SEC. 205. STUDY AND REPORT ON MEDICAID EMERGENCY PSYCHIATRIC 
              DEMONSTRATION PROJECT.

    (a) Collection of Information.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services, acting through the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare 
& Medicaid Services, shall, with respect to each State that has 
participated in the demonstration project established under section 
2707 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a 
note), collect from each such State information on the following:
            (1) The number of institutions for mental diseases (as 
        defined in section 1905(i) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396d(i))) and beds in such institutions that received 
        payment for the provision of services to individuals who 
        receive medical assistance under a State plan under the 
        Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) (or under a waiver of such plan) through 
        the demonstration project in each such State as compared to the 
        total number of institutions for mental diseases and beds in 
        the State.
            (2) The extent to which there is a reduction in 
        expenditures under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) or other spending 
        on the full continuum of physical or mental health care for 
        individuals who receive treatment in an institution for mental 
        diseases under the demonstration project, including outpatient, 
        inpatient, emergency, and ambulatory care, that is attributable 
        to such individuals receiving treatment in institutions for 
        mental diseases under the demonstration project.
            (3) The number of forensic psychiatric hospitals, the 
        number of beds in such hospitals, and the number of forensic 
        psychiatric beds in other hospitals in such State, based on the 
        most recent data available, to the extent practical, as 
        determined by such Administrator.
            (4) The amount of any disproportionate share hospital 
        payments under section 1923 of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 1396r-4) that institutions for mental diseases in the 
        State received during the period beginning on July 1, 2012, and 
        ending on June 30, 2015, and the extent to which the 
        demonstration project reduced the amount of such payments.
            (5) The most recent data regarding all facilities or sites 
        in the State in which any individuals with serious mental 
        illness who are receiving medical assistance under a State plan 
        under the Medicaid program under title XIX of the Social 
        Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) (or under a waiver of 
        such plan) are treated during the period referred to in 
        paragraph (4), to the extent practical, as determined by the 
        Administrator, including--
                    (A) the types of such facilities or sites (such as 
                an institution for mental diseases, a hospital 
                emergency department, or other inpatient hospital);
                    (B) the average length of stay in such a facility 
                or site by such an individual, disaggregated by 
                facility type; and
                    (C) the payment rate under the State plan (or a 
                waivers of such plan) for services furnished to such an 
                individual for that treatment, disaggregated by 
                facility type, during the period in which the 
                demonstration project is in operation.
            (6) The extent to which the utilization of hospital 
        emergency departments during the period in which the 
        demonstration project was is in operation differed, with 
        respect to individuals who are receiving medical assistance 
        under a State plan under the Medicaid program under title XIX 
        of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.) (or under a 
        waiver of such plan), between--
                    (A) those individuals who received treatment in an 
                institution for mental diseases under the demonstration 
                project;
                    (B) those individuals who met the eligibility 
                requirements for the demonstration project but who did 
                not receive treatment in an institution for mental 
                diseases under the demonstration project; and
                    (C) those individuals with serious mental illness 
                who did not meet such eligibility requirements and did 
                not receive treatment for such illness in an 
                institution for mental diseases.
    (b) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall submit to 
Congress a report that summarizes and analyzes the information 
collected under subsection (a). Such report may be submitted as part of 
the report required under section 2707(f) of the Patient Protection and 
Affordable Care Act (42 U.S.C. 1396a note) or separately.

SEC. 206. PROVIDING EPSDT SERVICES TO CHILDREN IN IMDS.

    (a) In General.--Section 1905(a)(16) of the Social Security Act (42 
U.S.C. 1396d(a)(16)) is amended--
            (1) by striking ``effective January 1, 1973'' and inserting 
        ``(A) effective January 1, 1973''; and
            (2) by inserting before the semicolon at the end the 
        following: ``, and, (B) for individuals receiving services 
        described in subparagraph (A), early and periodic screening, 
        diagnostic, and treatment services (as defined in subsection 
        (r)), whether or not such screening, diagnostic, and treatment 
        services are furnished by the provider of the services 
        described in such subparagraph''.
    (b) Effective Date.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply with respect to items and services furnished in calendar quarters 
beginning on or after January 1, 2019.

SEC. 207. ELECTRONIC VISIT VERIFICATION SYSTEM REQUIRED FOR PERSONAL 
              CARE SERVICES AND HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES UNDER 
              MEDICAID.

    (a) In General.--Section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1396b) is amended by inserting after subsection (k) the following new 
subsection:
    ``(l)(1) Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), with respect to any 
amount expended for personal care services or home health care services 
requiring an in-home visit by a provider that are provided under a 
State plan under this title (or under a waiver of the plan) and 
furnished in a calendar quarter beginning on or after January 1, 2019 
(or, in the case of home health care services, on or after January 1, 
2023), unless a State requires the use of an electronic visit 
verification system for such services furnished in such quarter under 
the plan or such waiver, the Federal medical assistance percentage 
shall be reduced--
            ``(A) in the case of personal care services--
                    ``(i) for calendar quarters in 2019 and 2020, by 
                .25 percentage points;
                    ``(ii) for calendar quarters in 2021, by .5 
                percentage points;
                    ``(iii) for calendar quarters in 2022, by .75 
                percentage points; and
                    ``(iv) for calendar quarters in 2023 and each year 
                thereafter, by 1 percentage point; and
            ``(B) in the case of home health care services--
                    ``(i) for calendar quarters in 2023 and 2024, by 
                .25 percentage points;
                    ``(ii) for calendar quarters in 2025, by .5 
                percentage points;
                    ``(iii) for calendar quarters in 2026, by .75 
                percentage points; and
                    ``(iv) for calendar quarters in 2027 and each year 
                thereafter, by 1 percentage point.
    ``(2) Subject to paragraphs (3) and (4), in implementing the 
requirement for the use of an electronic visit verification system 
under paragraph (1), a State shall--
            ``(A) consult with agencies and entities that provide 
        personal care services, home health care services, or both 
        under the State plan (or under a waiver of the plan) to ensure 
        that such system--
                    ``(i) is minimally burdensome;
                    ``(ii) takes into account existing best practices 
                and electronic visit verification systems in use in the 
                State; and
                    ``(iii) is conducted in accordance with the 
                requirements of HIPAA privacy and security law (as 
                defined in section 3009 of the Public Health Service 
                Act);
            ``(B) take into account a stakeholder process that includes 
        input from beneficiaries, family caregivers, individuals who 
        furnish personal care services or home health care services, 
        and other stakeholders, as determined by the State in 
        accordance with guidance from the Secretary; and
            ``(C) ensure that individuals who furnish personal care 
        services, home health care services, or both under the State 
        plan (or under a waiver of the plan) are provided the 
        opportunity for training on the use of such system.
    ``(3) Paragraphs (1) and (2) shall not apply in the case of a State 
that, as of the date of the enactment of this subsection, requires the 
use of any system for the electronic verification of visits conducted 
as part of both personal care services and home health care services, 
so long as the State continues to require the use of such system with 
respect to the electronic verification of such visits.
    ``(4)(A) In the case of a State described in subparagraph (B), the 
reduction under paragraph (1) shall not apply--
            ``(i) in the case of personal care services, for calendar 
        quarters in 2019; and
            ``(ii) in the case of home health care services, for 
        calendar quarters in 2023.
    ``(B) For purposes of subparagraph (A), a State described in this 
subparagraph is a State that demonstrates to the Secretary that the 
State--
            ``(i) has made a good faith effort to comply with the 
        requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) (including by taking 
        steps to adopt the technology used for an electronic visit 
        verification system); or
            ``(ii) in implementing such a system, has encountered 
        unavoidable system delays.
    ``(5) In this subsection:
            ``(A) The term `electronic visit verification system' 
        means, with respect to personal care services or home health 
        care services, a system under which visits conducted as part of 
        such services are electronically verified with respect to--
                    ``(i) the type of service performed;
                    ``(ii) the individual receiving the service;
                    ``(iii) the date of the service;
                    ``(iv) the location of service delivery;
                    ``(v) the individual providing the service; and
                    ``(vi) the time the service begins and ends.
            ``(B) The term `home health care services' means services 
        described in section 1905(a)(7) provided under a State plan 
        under this title (or under a waiver of the plan).
            ``(C) The term `personal care services' means personal care 
        services provided under a State plan under this title (or under 
        a waiver of the plan), including services provided under 
        section 1905(a)(24), 1915(c), 1915(i), 1915(j), or 1915(k) or 
        under a wavier under section 1115.
    ``(6)(A) In the case in which a State requires personal care 
service and home health care service providers to utilize an electronic 
visit verification system operated by the State or a contractor on 
behalf of the State, the Secretary shall pay to the State, for each 
quarter, an amount equal to 90 per centum of so much of the sums 
expended during such quarter as are attributable to the design, 
development, or installation of such system, and 75 per centum of so 
much of the sums for the operation and maintenance of such system.
    ``(B) Subparagraph (A) shall not apply in the case in which a State 
requires personal care service and home health care service providers 
to utilize an electronic visit verification system that is not operated 
by the State or a contractor on behalf of the State.''.
    (b) Collection and Dissemination of Best Practices.--Not later than 
January 1, 2018, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, with 
respect to electronic visit verification systems (as defined in 
subsection (l)(5) of section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
1396b), as inserted by subsection (a)), collect and disseminate best 
practices to State Medicaid Directors with respect to--
            (1) training individuals who furnish personal care 
        services, home health care services, or both under the State 
        plan under title XIX of such Act (or under a waiver of the 
        plan) on such systems and the operation of such systems and the 
        prevention of fraud with respect to the provision of personal 
        care services or home health care services (as defined in such 
        subsection (l)(5)); and
            (2) the provision of notice and educational materials to 
        family caregivers and beneficiaries with respect to the use of 
        such electronic visit verification systems and other means to 
        prevent such fraud.
    (c) Rules of Construction.--
            (1) No employer-employee relationship established.--Nothing 
        in the amendment made by this section may be construed as 
        establishing an employer-employee relationship between the 
        agency or entity that provides for personal care services or 
        home health care services and the individuals who, under a 
        contract with such an agency or entity, furnish such services 
        for purposes of part 552 of title 29, Code of Federal 
        Regulations (or any successor regulations).
            (2) No particular or uniform electronic visit verification 
        system required.--Nothing in the amendment made by this section 
        shall be construed to require the use of a particular or 
        uniform electronic visit verification system (as defined in 
        subsection (l)(5) of section 1903 of the Social Security Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 1396b), as inserted by subsection (a)) by all 
        agencies or entities that provide personal care services or 
        home health care under a State plan under title XIX of the 
        Social Security Act (or under a waiver of the plan) (42 U.S.C. 
        1396 et seq.).
            (3) No limits on provision of care.--Nothing in the 
        amendment made by this section may be construed to limit, with 
        respect to personal care services or home health care services 
        provided under a State plan under title XIX of the Social 
        Security Act (or under a waiver of the plan) (42 U.S.C. 1396 et 
        seq.), provider selection, constrain beneficiaries' selection 
        of a caregiver, or impede the manner in which care is 
        delivered.
            (4) No prohibition on state quality measures 
        requirements.--Nothing in the amendment made by this section 
        shall be construed as prohibiting a State, in implementing an 
        electronic visit verification system (as defined in subsection 
        (l)(5) of section 1903 of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
        1396b), as inserted by subsection (a)), from establishing 
        requirements related to quality measures for such system.

   TITLE III--INTERDEPARTMENTAL SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING 
                               COMMITTEE

SEC. 301. INTERDEPARTMENTAL SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS COORDINATING 
              COMMITTEE.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 3 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services, or the designee of the Secretary, shall establish a 
        committee to be known as the ``Interdepartmental Serious Mental 
        Illness Coordinating Committee'' (in this section referred to 
        as the ``Committee'').
            (2) Federal advisory committee act.--Except as provided in 
        this section, the provisions of the Federal Advisory Committee 
        Act (5 U.S.C. App.) shall apply to the Committee.
    (b) Meetings.--The Committee shall meet not fewer than two times 
each year.
    (c) Responsibilities.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, and 5 years after such date of enactment, the 
Committee shall submit to Congress a report including--
            (1) a summary of advances in serious mental illness and 
        serious emotional disturbance research related to the 
        prevention of, diagnosis of, intervention in, and treatment and 
        recovery of, serious mental illnesses, serious emotional 
        disturbances, and advances in access to services and support 
        for individuals with a serious mental illness or serious 
        emotional disturbance;
            (2) an evaluation of the effect on public health of Federal 
        programs related to serious mental illness or serious emotional 
        disturbance, including measurements of public health outcomes 
        such as--
                    (A) rates of suicide, suicide attempts, prevalence 
                of serious mental illness, serious emotional 
                disturbances, and substance use disorders, overdose, 
                overdose deaths, emergency hospitalizations, emergency 
                room boarding, preventable emergency room visits, 
                involvement with the criminal justice system, crime, 
                homelessness, and unemployment;
                    (B) increased rates of employment and enrollment in 
                educational and vocational programs;
                    (C) quality of mental illness and substance use 
                disorder treatment services; and
                    (D) any other criteria as may be determined by the 
                Secretary;
            (3) a plan to improve outcomes for individuals with serious 
        mental illness or serious emotional disturbances, including 
        reducing incarceration for such individuals, reducing 
        homelessness, and increasing employment; and
            (4) specific recommendations for actions that agencies can 
        take to better coordinate the administration of mental health 
        services for people with serious mental illness or serious 
        emotional disturbances.
    (d) Committee Extension.--Upon the submission of the second report 
under subsection (c), the Secretary shall submit a recommendation to 
Congress on whether to extend the operation of the Committee.
    (e) Membership.--
            (1) Federal members.--The Committee shall be composed of 
        the following Federal representatives, or their designees:
                    (A) The Secretary of Health and Human Services, who 
                shall serve as the Chair of the Committee.
                    (B) The Director of the National Institutes of 
                Health.
                    (C) The Assistant Secretary for Health of the 
                Department of Health and Human Services.
                    (D) The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
                Substance Use.
                    (E) The Attorney General of the United States.
                    (F) The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.
                    (G) The Secretary of Defense.
                    (H) The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
                    (I) The Secretary of Education.
                    (J) The Secretary of Labor.
                    (K) The Commissioner of Social Security.
                    (L) The Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & 
                Medicaid Services.
            (2) Non-federal members.--The Committee shall also include 
        not less than 14 non-Federal public members appointed by the 
        Secretary of Health and Human Services, of which--
                    (A) at least two members shall be individuals with 
                lived experience with serious mental illness or serious 
                emotional disturbance;
                    (B) at least one member shall be a parent or legal 
                guardian of an individual with a history of a serious 
                mental illness or serious emotional disturbance;
                    (C) at least one member shall be a representative 
                of a leading research, advocacy, or service 
                organization for individuals with serious mental 
                illness or serious emotional disturbance;
                    (D) at least two members shall be--
                            (i) a licensed psychiatrist with experience 
                        treating serious mental illnesses or serious 
                        emotional disturbances;
                            (ii) a licensed psychologist with 
                        experience treating serious mental illnesses or 
                        serious emotional disturbances;
                            (iii) a licensed clinical social worker 
                        with experience treating serious mental illness 
                        or serious emotional disturbances; or
                            (iv) a licensed psychiatric nurse, nurse 
                        practitioner, or physician assistant with 
                        experience treating serious mental illnesses or 
                        serious emotional disturbances;
                    (E) at least one member shall be a licensed mental 
                health professional with a specialty in treating 
                children and adolescents with serious emotional 
                disturbances;
                    (F) at least one member shall be a mental health 
                professional who has research or clinical mental health 
                experience working with minorities;
                    (G) at least one member shall be a mental health 
                professional who has research or clinical mental health 
                experience working with medically underserved 
                populations;
                    (H) at least one member shall be a State certified 
                mental health peer-support specialist;
                    (I) at least one member shall be a judge with 
                experience adjudicating cases within a mental health 
                court;
                    (J) at least one member shall be a law enforcement 
                officer or corrections officer with extensive 
                experience in interfacing with individuals with a 
                serious mental illness or serious emotional 
                disturbance, or in a mental health crisis; and
                    (K) at least one member shall be a homeless 
                services provider with experience working with 
                individuals with serious mental illness, with serious 
                emotional disturbance, or having mental health crisis.
            (3) Terms.--A member of the Committee appointed under 
        paragraph (2) shall serve for a term of 3 years, and may be 
        reappointed for one or more additional 3-year terms. Any member 
        appointed to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term shall be 
        appointed for the remainder of such term. A member may serve 
        after the expiration of the member's term until a successor has 
        been appointed.
    (f) Working Groups.--In carrying out its functions, the Committee 
may establish working groups. Such working groups shall be composed of 
Committee members, or their designees, and may hold such meetings as 
are necessary.
    (g) Sunset.--The Committee shall terminate on the date that is 6 
years after the date on which the Committee is established under 
subsection (a)(1).

             TITLE IV--COMPASSIONATE COMMUNICATION ON HIPAA

SEC. 401. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) The vast majority of individuals with mental illness 
        are capable of understanding their illness and caring for 
        themselves.
            (2) Persons with serious mental illness (in this section 
        referred to as ``SMI''), including schizophrenia spectrum, 
        bipolar disorders, and major depressive disorder, may be 
        significantly impaired in their ability to understand or make 
        sound decisions for their care and needs. By nature of their 
        illness, cognitive impairments in reasoning and judgment, as 
        well as the presence of hallucinations, delusions, and severe 
        emotional distortions, they may lack the awareness they even 
        have a mental illness (a condition known as anosognosia), and 
        thus may be unable to make sound decisions regarding their 
        care, nor follow through consistently and effectively on their 
        care needs.
            (3) Persons with mental illness or SMI may require and 
        benefit from mental health treatment in order to recover to the 
        fullest extent of their ability; these beneficial interventions 
        may include psychiatric care, psychological care, medication, 
        peer support, educational support, employment support, and 
        housing support.
            (4) Persons with SMI who are provided with professional and 
        supportive services may still experience times when their 
        symptoms may greatly impair their abilities to make sound 
        decisions for their personal care or may discontinue their care 
        as a result of this impaired decisionmaking resulting in a 
        further deterioration of their condition. They may experience a 
        temporary or prolonged impairment as a result of their 
        diminished capacity to care for themselves.
            (5) Episodes of psychiatric crises among those with SMI can 
        result in neurological harm to the individual's brain.
            (6) Persons with SMI--
                    (A) are at high risk for other chronic physical 
                illnesses, with approximately 50 percent having two or 
                more co-occurring chronic physical illnesses such as 
                cardiac, pulmonary, cancer, and endocrine disorders; 
                and
                    (B) have three times the odds of having chronic 
                bronchitis, five times the odds of having emphysema, 
                and four times the odds of having COPD, are more than 
                four times as likely to have fluid and electrolyte 
                disorders, and are nearly three times as likely to be 
                nicotine dependent.
            (7) Some psychotropic medications, such as second 
        generation antipsychotics, significantly increase risk for 
        chronic illnesses such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease.
            (8) When the individual fails to seek or maintain treatment 
        for these physical conditions over a long term, it can result 
        in the individual becoming gravely disabled, or developing 
        life-threatening illnesses. Early and consistent treatment can 
        ameliorate or reduce symptoms or cure the disease.
            (9) Persons with SMI die 7 to 24 years earlier than their 
        age cohorts primarily because of complications from their 
        chronic physical illness and failure to seek or maintain 
        treatment resulting from emotional and cognitive impairments 
        from their SMI.
            (10) It is beneficial to the person with SMI and chronic 
        illness to seek and maintain continuity of medical care and 
        treatment for their mental illness to prevent further 
        deterioration and harm to their own safety.
            (11) When the individual with SMI is significantly 
        diminished in their capacity to care for themselves long term 
        or acutely, other supportive interventions to assist their care 
        may be necessary to protect their health and safety.
            (12) Prognosis for the physical and psychiatric health of 
        those with SMI may improve when responsible caregivers 
        facilitate and participate in care.
            (13) When an individual with SMI is chronically 
        incapacitated in their ability to care for themselves, 
        caregivers can pursue legal guardianship to facilitate care in 
        appropriate areas while being mindful to allow the individual 
        to make decisions for themselves in areas where they are 
        capable.
            (14) Individuals with SMI who have prolonged periods of 
        being significantly functional can, during such periods, design 
        and sign an advanced directive to predefine and choose 
        medications, providers, treatment plans, and hospitals, and 
        provide caregivers with guardianship the ability to help in 
        those times when a patient's psychiatric symptoms worsen to the 
        point of making them incapacitated or leaving them with a 
        severely diminished capacity to make informed decisions about 
        their care which may result in harm to their physical and 
        mental health.
            (15) All professional and support efforts should be made to 
        help the individual with SMI and acute or chronic physical 
        illnesses to understand and follow through on treatment.
            (16) When individuals with SMI, even after efforts to help 
        them understand, have failed to care for themselves, there 
        exists confusion in the health care community around what is 
        currently permissible under HIPAA rules. This confusion may 
        hinder communication with responsible caregivers who may be 
        able to facilitate care for the patient with SMI in instances 
        when the individual does not give permission for disclosure.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of the Congress that, for 
the sake of the health and safety of persons with serious mental 
illness, more clarity is needed surrounding the existing HIPAA privacy 
rule promulgated pursuant to section 264(c) of the Health Insurance 
Portability and Accountability Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note) to permit 
health care professionals to communicate, when necessary, with 
responsible known caregivers of such persons, the limited, appropriate 
protected health information of such persons in order to facilitate 
treatment, but not including psychotherapy notes.

SEC. 402. CONFIDENTIALITY OF RECORDS.

    Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services first finalizes regulations updating part 2 
of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to confidentiality 
of alcohol and drug abuse patient records) after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary shall convene relevant stakeholders to 
determine the effect of such regulations on patient care, health 
outcomes, and patient privacy. The Secretary shall submit to the 
Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and 
the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, 
and make publicly available, a report on the findings of such 
stakeholders.

SEC. 403. CLARIFICATION OF CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH DISCLOSURE OF 
              PROTECTED HEALTH INFORMATION IS PERMITTED.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this section, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
promulgate final regulations clarifying the circumstances under which, 
consistent with the provisions of subpart C of title XI of the Social 
Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d et seq.) and regulations promulgated 
pursuant to section 264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and 
Accountability Act of 1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note), a health care 
provider or covered entity may disclose the protected health 
information of a patient with a mental illness, including for purposes 
of--
            (1) communicating (including with respect to treatment, 
        side effects, risk factors, and the availability of community 
        resources) with a family member of such patient, caregiver of 
        such patient, or other individual to the extent that such 
        family member, caregiver, or individual is involved in the care 
        of the patient;
            (2) communicating with a family member of the patient, 
        caregiver of such patient, or other individual involved in the 
        care of the patient in the case that the patient is an adult;
            (3) communicating with the parent or caregiver of a patient 
        in the case that the patient is a minor;
            (4) considering the patient's capacity to agree or object 
        to the sharing of the protected health information of the 
        patient;
            (5) communicating and sharing information with the family 
        or caregivers of the patient when--
                    (A) the patient consents;
                    (B) the patient does not consent, but the patient 
                lacks the capacity to agree or object and the 
                communication or sharing of information is in the 
                patient's best interest;
                    (C) the patient does not consent and the patient is 
                not incapacitated or in an emergency circumstance, but 
                the ability of the patient to make rational health care 
                decisions is significantly diminished by reason of the 
                physical or mental health condition of the patient; and
                    (D) the patient does not consent, but such 
                communication and sharing of information is necessary 
                to prevent impending and serious deterioration of the 
                patient's mental or physical health;
            (6) involving a patient's family members, caregivers, or 
        others involved in the patient's care or care plan, including 
        facilitating treatment and medication adherence, in dealing 
        with patient failures to adhere to medication or other therapy;
            (7) listening to or receiving information with respect to 
        the patient from the family or caregiver of such patient 
        receiving mental illness treatment;
            (8) communicating with family members of the patient, 
        caregivers of the patient, law enforcement, or others when the 
        patient presents a serious and imminent threat of harm to self 
        or others; and
            (9) communicating to law enforcement and family members of 
        the patient or caregivers of the patient about the admission of 
        the patient to receive care at a facility or the release of a 
        patient who was admitted to a facility for an emergency 
        psychiatric hold or involuntary treatment.
    (b) Coordination.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall 
carry out this section in coordination with the Director of the Office 
for Civil Rights within the Department of Health and Human Services.
    (c) Consistency With Guidance.--The Secretary of Health and Human 
Services shall ensure that the regulations under this section are 
consistent with the guidance entitled ``HIPAA Privacy Rule and Sharing 
Information Related to Mental Health'', issued by the Department of 
Health and Human Services on February 20, 2014.

SEC. 404. DEVELOPMENT AND DISSEMINATION OF MODEL TRAINING PROGRAMS.

    (a) Initial Programs and Materials.--Not later than 1 year after 
the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services (in this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') shall 
develop and disseminate--
            (1) a model program and materials for training health care 
        providers (including physicians, emergency medical personnel, 
        psychologists, counselors, therapists, behavioral health 
        facilities and clinics, care managers, and hospitals) regarding 
        the circumstances under which, consistent with the standards 
        governing the privacy and security of individually identifiable 
        health information promulgated by the Secretary under subpart C 
        of title XI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1320d et 
        seq.) and regulations promulgated pursuant to section 264(c) of 
        the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 
        (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note), the protected health information of 
        patients with a mental illness may be disclosed with and 
        without patient consent;
            (2) a model program and materials for training lawyers and 
        others in the legal profession on such circumstances; and
            (3) a model program and materials for training patients and 
        their families regarding their rights to protect and obtain 
        information under the standards specified in paragraph (1).
    (b) Periodic Updates.--The Secretary shall--
            (1) periodically review and update the model programs and 
        materials developed under subsection (a); and
            (2) disseminate the updated model programs and materials.
    (c) Contents.--The programs and materials developed under 
subsection (a) shall address the guidance entitled ``HIPAA Privacy Rule 
and Sharing Information Related to Mental Health'', issued by the 
Department of Health and Human Services on February 20, 2014.
    (d) Coordination.--The Secretary shall carry out this section in 
coordination with the Director of the Office for Civil Rights within 
the Department of Health and Human Services, the Assistant Secretary 
for Mental Health and Substance Use, the Administrator of the Health 
Resources and Services Administration, and the heads of other relevant 
agencies within the Department of Health and Human Services.
    (e) Input of Certain Entities.--In developing the model programs 
and materials required by subsections (a) and (b), the Secretary shall 
solicit the input of relevant national, State, and local associations, 
medical societies, and licensing boards.
    (f) Funding.--There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out 
this section $4,000,000 for fiscal year 2018, $2,000,000 for each of 
fiscal years 2019 and 2020, and $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 
2021 and 2022.

   TITLE V--INCREASING ACCESS TO TREATMENT FOR SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS

SEC. 501. ASSERTIVE COMMUNITY TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM FOR INDIVIDUALS 
              WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    Part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb 
et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 520L the following:

``SEC. 520M. ASSERTIVE COMMUNITY TREATMENT GRANT PROGRAM FOR 
              INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary shall award grants to 
eligible entities--
            ``(1) to establish assertive community treatment programs 
        for individuals with serious mental illness; or
            ``(2) to maintain or expand such programs.
    ``(b) Eligible Entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, an entity shall be a State, county, city, tribe, tribal 
organization, mental health system, health care facility, or any other 
entity the Assistant Secretary deems appropriate.
    ``(c) Special Consideration.--In selecting among applicants for a 
grant under this section, the Assistant Secretary may give special 
consideration to the potential of the applicant's program to reduce 
hospitalization, homelessness, and involvement with the criminal 
justice system while improving the health and social outcomes of the 
patient.
    ``(d) Additional Activities.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            ``(1) not later than the end of fiscal year 2021, submit a 
        report to the appropriate congressional committees on the grant 
        program under this section, including an evaluation of--
                    ``(A) cost savings and public health outcomes such 
                as mortality, suicide, substance abuse, 
                hospitalization, and use of services;
                    ``(B) rates of involvement with the criminal 
                justice system of patients;
                    ``(C) rates of homelessness among patients; and
                    ``(D) patient and family satisfaction with program 
                participation; and
            ``(2) provide appropriate information, training, and 
        technical assistance to grant recipients under this section to 
        help such recipients to establish, maintain, or expand their 
        assertive community treatment programs.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            ``(1) In general.--To carry out this section, there is 
        authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 for the period of 
        fiscal years 2018 through 2022.
            ``(2) Use of certain funds.--Of the funds appropriated to 
        carry out this section in any fiscal year, no more than 5 
        percent shall be available to the Assistant Secretary for 
        carrying out subsection (d).''.

SEC. 502. STRENGTHENING COMMUNITY CRISIS RESPONSE SYSTEMS.

    Section 520F of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-37) 
is amended to read as follows:

``SEC. 520F. STRENGTHENING COMMUNITY CRISIS RESPONSE SYSTEMS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall award competitive grants--
            ``(1) to State and local governments and Indian tribes and 
        tribal organizations to enhance community-based crisis response 
        systems; or
            ``(2) to States to develop, maintain, or enhance a database 
        of beds at inpatient psychiatric facilities, crisis 
        stabilization units, and residential community mental health 
        and residential substance use disorder treatment facilities, 
        for individuals with serious mental illness, serious emotional 
        disturbance, or substance use disorders.
    ``(b) Application.--
            ``(1) In general.--To receive a grant or cooperative 
        agreement under subsection (a), an entity shall submit to the 
        Secretary an application, at such time, in such manner, and 
        containing such information as the Secretary may require.
            ``(2) Community-based crisis response plan.--An application 
        for a grant under subsection (a)(1) shall include a plan for--
                    ``(A) promoting integration and coordination 
                between local public and private entities engaged in 
                crisis response, including first responders, emergency 
                health care providers, primary care providers, law 
                enforcement, court systems, health care payers, social 
                service providers, and behavioral health providers;
                    ``(B) developing a plan for entering into memoranda 
                of understanding with public and private entities to 
                implement crisis response services;
                    ``(C) expanding the continuum of community-based 
                services to address crisis intervention and prevention; 
                and
                    ``(D) developing models for minimizing hospital 
                readmissions, including through appropriate discharge 
                planning.
            ``(3) Beds database plan.--An application for a grant under 
        subsection (a)(2) shall include a plan for developing, 
        maintaining, or enhancing a real-time Internet-based bed 
        database to collect, aggregate, and display information about 
        beds in inpatient psychiatric facilities and crisis 
        stabilization units, and residential community mental health 
        and residential substance use disorder treatment facilities, to 
        facilitate the identification and designation of facilities for 
        the temporary treatment of individuals in mental or substance 
        use disorder crisis.
    ``(c) Database Requirements.--A bed database described in this 
section is a database that--
            ``(1) includes information on inpatient psychiatric 
        facilities, crisis stabilization units, and residential 
        community mental health and residential substance use disorder 
        facilities in the State involved, including contact information 
        for the facility or unit;
            ``(2) provides real-time information about the number of 
        beds available at each facility or unit and, for each available 
        bed, the type of patient that may be admitted, the level of 
        security provided, and any other information that may be 
        necessary to allow for the proper identification of appropriate 
        facilities for treatment of individuals in mental or substance 
        use disorder crisis; and
            ``(3) enables searches of the database to identify 
        available beds that are appropriate for the treatment of 
        individuals in mental or substance use disorder crisis.
    ``(d) Evaluation.--An entity receiving a grant under subsection 
(a)(1) shall submit to the Secretary, at such time, in such manner, and 
containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, a 
report, including an evaluation of the effect of such grant on--
            ``(1) local crisis response services and measures of 
        individuals receiving crisis planning and early intervention 
        supports;
            ``(2) individuals reporting improved functional outcomes; 
        and
            ``(3) individuals receiving regular followup care following 
        a crisis.
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section, $5,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2022.''.

SEC. 503. INCREASED AND EXTENDED FUNDING FOR ASSISTED OUTPATIENT GRANT 
              PROGRAM FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS.

    Section 224(g) of the Protecting Access to Medicare Act of 2014 (42 
U.S.C. 290aa note) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2018'' and inserting 
        ``2022''; and
            (2) in paragraph (2), by striking ``is authorized to be 
        appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for each of 
        fiscal years 2015 through 2018'' and inserting ``are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2015 through 2017, $20,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2018, $19,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2019 and 2020, 
        and $18,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 and 2022''.

SEC. 504. LIABILITY PROTECTIONS FOR HEALTH PROFESSIONAL VOLUNTEERS AT 
              COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS.

    Section 224 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 233) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(q)(1) For purposes of this section, a health professional 
volunteer at an entity described in subsection (g)(4) shall, in 
providing a health professional service eligible for funding under 
section 330 to an individual, be deemed to be an employee of the Public 
Health Service for a calendar year that begins during a fiscal year for 
which a transfer was made under paragraph (4)(C). The preceding 
sentence is subject to the provisions of this subsection.
    ``(2) In providing a health service to an individual, a health care 
practitioner shall for purposes of this subsection be considered to be 
a health professional volunteer at an entity described in subsection 
(g)(4) if the following conditions are met:
            ``(A) The service is provided to the individual at the 
        facilities of an entity described in subsection (g)(4), or 
        through offsite programs or events carried out by the entity.
            ``(B) The entity is sponsoring the health care practitioner 
        pursuant to paragraph (3)(B).
            ``(C) The health care practitioner does not receive any 
        compensation for the service from the individual or from any 
        third-party payer (including reimbursement under any insurance 
        policy or health plan, or under any Federal or State health 
        benefits program), except that the health care practitioner may 
        receive repayment from the entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4) for reasonable expenses incurred by the health care 
        practitioner in the provision of the service to the individual.
            ``(D) Before the service is provided, the health care 
        practitioner or the entity described in subsection (g)(4) posts 
        a clear and conspicuous notice at the site where the service is 
        provided of the extent to which the legal liability of the 
        health care practitioner is limited pursuant to this 
        subsection.
            ``(E) At the time the service is provided, the health care 
        practitioner is licensed or certified in accordance with 
        applicable law regarding the provision of the service.
    ``(3) Subsection (g) (other than paragraphs (3) and (5)) and 
subsections (h), (i), and (l) apply to a health care practitioner for 
purposes of this subsection to the same extent and in the same manner 
as such subsections apply to an officer, governing board member, 
employee, or contractor of an entity described in subsection (g)(4), 
subject to paragraph (4) and subject to the following:
            ``(A) The first sentence of paragraph (1) applies in lieu 
        of the first sentence of subsection (g)(1)(A).
            ``(B) With respect to an entity described in subsection 
        (g)(4), a health care practitioner is not a health professional 
        volunteer at such entity unless the entity sponsors the health 
        care practitioner. For purposes of this subsection, the entity 
        shall be considered to be sponsoring the health care 
        practitioner if--
                    ``(i) with respect to the health care practitioner, 
                the entity submits to the Secretary an application 
                meeting the requirements of subsection (g)(1)(D); and
                    ``(ii) the Secretary, pursuant to subsection 
                (g)(1)(E), determines that the health care practitioner 
                is deemed to be an employee of the Public Health 
                Service.
            ``(C) In the case of a health care practitioner who is 
        determined by the Secretary pursuant to subsection (g)(1)(E) to 
        be a health professional volunteer at such entity, this 
        subsection applies to the health care practitioner (with 
        respect to services performed on behalf of the entity 
        sponsoring the health care practitioner pursuant to 
        subparagraph (B)) for any cause of action arising from an act 
        or omission of the health care practitioner occurring on or 
        after the date on which the Secretary makes such determination.
            ``(D) Subsection (g)(1)(F) applies to a health care 
        practitioner for purposes of this subsection only to the extent 
        that, in providing health services to an individual, each of 
        the conditions specified in paragraph (2) is met.
    ``(4)(A) Amounts in the fund established under subsection (k)(2) 
shall be available for transfer under subparagraph (C) for purposes of 
carrying out this subsection.
    ``(B) Not later May 1 of each fiscal year, the Attorney General, in 
consultation with the Secretary, shall submit to the Congress a report 
providing an estimate of the amount of claims (together with related 
fees and expenses of witnesses) that, by reason of the acts or 
omissions of health professional volunteers, will be paid pursuant to 
this section during the calendar year that begins in the following 
fiscal year. Subsection (k)(1)(B) applies to the estimate under the 
preceding sentence regarding health professional volunteers to the same 
extent and in the same manner as such subsection applies to the 
estimate under such subsection regarding officers, governing board 
members, employees, and contractors of entities described in subsection 
(g)(4).
    ``(C) Not later than December 31 of each fiscal year, the Secretary 
shall transfer from the fund under subsection (k)(2) to the appropriate 
accounts in the Treasury an amount equal to the estimate made under 
subparagraph (B) for the calendar year beginning in such fiscal year, 
subject to the extent of amounts in the fund.
    ``(5)(A) This subsection takes effect on October 1, 2017, except as 
provided in subparagraph (B).
    ``(B) Effective on the date of the enactment of this subsection--
            ``(i) the Secretary may issue regulations for carrying out 
        this subsection, and the Secretary may accept and consider 
        applications submitted pursuant to paragraph (3)(B); and
            ``(ii) reports under paragraph (4)(B) may be submitted to 
        the Congress.''.

      TITLE VI--SUPPORTING INNOVATIVE AND EVIDENCE-BASED PROGRAMS

Subtitle A--Encouraging the Advancement, Incorporation, and Development 
                      of Evidence-Based Practices

SEC. 601. ENCOURAGING INNOVATION AND EVIDENCE-BASED PROGRAMS.

    Section 501B of the Public Health Service Act, as inserted by 
section 103, is further amended, by inserting after subsection (c) the 
following new subsection:
    ``(d) Promoting Innovation.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Assistant Secretary, in coordination 
        with the Laboratory, may award grants to States, local 
        governments, Indian tribes or tribal organizations (as such 
        terms are defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination 
        and Education Assistance Act), educational institutions, and 
        nonprofit organizations to develop evidence-based 
        interventions, including culturally and linguistically 
        appropriate services, as appropriate, for--
                    ``(A) evaluating a model that has been 
                scientifically demonstrated to show promise, but would 
                benefit from further applied development, for--
                            ``(i) enhancing the prevention, diagnosis, 
                        intervention, treatment, and recovery of mental 
                        illness, serious emotional disturbance, 
                        substance use disorders, and co-occurring 
                        illness or disorders; or
                            ``(ii) integrating or coordinating physical 
                        health services and mental illness and 
                        substance use disorder services; and
                    ``(B) expanding, replicating, or scaling evidence-
                based programs across a wider area to enhance effective 
                screening, early diagnosis, intervention, and treatment 
                with respect to mental illness, serious mental illness, 
                and serious emotional disturbance, primarily by--
                            ``(i) applying delivery of care, including 
                        training staff in effective evidence-based 
                        treatment; or
                            ``(ii) integrating models of care across 
                        specialties and jurisdictions.
            ``(2) Consultation.--In awarding grants under this 
        paragraph, the Assistant Secretary shall, as appropriate, 
        consult with the advisory councils described in section 502, 
        the National Institute of Mental Health, the National Institute 
        on Drug Abuse, and the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and 
        Alcoholism, as appropriate.
            ``(3) Authorization of appropriations.--There are 
        authorized to be appropriated--
                    ``(A) to carry out paragraph (1)(A), $7,000,000 for 
                the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2020; and
                    ``(B) to carry out paragraph (1)(B), $7,000,000 for 
                the period of fiscal years 2018 through 2020.''.

SEC. 602. PROMOTING ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON EVIDENCE-BASED PROGRAMS 
              AND PRACTICES.

    Part D of title V of the Public Health Service Act is amended by 
inserting after section 543 of such Act (42 U.S.C. 290dd-2 ) the 
following:

``SEC. 544. PROMOTING ACCESS TO INFORMATION ON EVIDENCE-BASED PROGRAMS 
              AND PRACTICES.

    ``(a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary shall improve access to 
reliable and valid information on evidence-based programs and 
practices, including information on the strength of evidence associated 
with such programs and practices, related to mental illness and 
substance use disorders for States, local communities, nonprofit 
entities, and other stakeholders by posting on the website of the 
National Registry of Evidence-Based Programs and Practices evidence-
based programs and practices that have been reviewed by the Assistant 
Secretary pursuant to the requirements of this section.
    ``(b) Notice.--
            ``(1) Periods.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
        Assistant Secretary may establish an initial period for the 
        submission of applications for evidence-based programs and 
        practices to be posted publicly in accordance with subsection 
        (a) (and may establish subsequent such periods). The Assistant 
        Secretary shall publish notice of such application periods in 
        the Federal Register.
            ``(2) Addressing gaps.--Such notice may solicit 
        applications for evidence-based practices and programs to 
        address gaps in information identified by the Assistant 
        Secretary, the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation, 
        the Assistant Secretary for Financial Resources, or the 
        National Mental Health and Substance Use Policy Laboratory, 
        including pursuant to priorities identified in the strategic 
        plan established under section 501(l).
    ``(c) Requirements.--The Assistant Secretary shall establish 
minimum requirements for applications referred to in this section, 
including applications related to the submission of research and 
evaluation.
    ``(d) Review and Rating.--The Assistant Secretary shall review 
applications prior to public posting, and may prioritize the review of 
applications for evidence-based practices and programs that are related 
to topics included in the notice established under subsection (b). The 
Assistant Secretary shall utilize a rating and review system, which 
shall include information on the strength of evidence associated with 
such programs and practices and a rating of the methodological rigor of 
the research supporting the application. The Assistant Secretary shall 
make the metrics used to evaluate applications and the resulting 
ratings publicly available.''.

SEC. 603. SENSE OF CONGRESS.

    It is the sense of the Congress that the National Institute of 
Mental Health should conduct or support research on the determinants of 
self-directed and other violence connected to mental illness.

    Subtitle B--Supporting the State Response to Mental Health Needs

SEC. 611. COMMUNITY MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES BLOCK GRANT.

    (a) Formula Grants.--Section 1911(b) of the Public Health Service 
Act (42 U.S.C. 300x(b)) is amended--
            (1) by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (3) as 
        paragraphs (2) through (4), respectively; and
            (2) by inserting before paragraph (2) (as so redesignated), 
        the following:
            ``(1) providing community mental health services for adults 
        with a serious mental illness and children with a serious 
        emotional disturbance as defined in accordance with section 
        1912(c);''.
    (b) State Plan.--Subsection (b) of section 1912 of the Public 
Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-1) is amended to read as follows:
    ``(b) Criteria for Plan.--The criteria specified in this subsection 
are as follows:
            ``(1) System of care.--The plan provides a description of 
        the system of care of the State, including as follows:
                    ``(A) Comprehensive community-based health 
                systems.--The plan shall--
                            ``(i) identify the single State agency to 
                        be responsible for the administration of the 
                        program under the grant and any third party 
                        with whom the agency will contract (subject to 
                        such third party complying with the 
                        requirements of this part) for administering 
                        mental health services through such program;
                            ``(ii) provide for an organized community-
                        based system of care for individuals with 
                        mental illness, and describe available services 
                        and resources in a comprehensive system of 
                        care, including services for individuals with 
                        mental health and behavioral health co-
                        occurring illness or disorders;
                            ``(iii) include a description of the manner 
                        in which the State and local entities will 
                        coordinate services to maximize the efficiency, 
                        effectiveness, quality, and cost effectiveness 
                        of services and programs to produce the best 
                        possible outcomes (including health services, 
                        rehabilitation services, employment services, 
                        housing services, educational services, 
                        substance use disorder services, legal 
                        services, law enforcement services, social 
                        services, child welfare services, medical and 
                        dental care services, and other support 
                        services to be provided with Federal, State, 
                        and local public and private resources) with 
                        other agencies to enable individuals receiving 
                        services to function outside of inpatient or 
                        residential institutions, to the maximum extent 
                        of their capabilities, including services to be 
                        provided by local school systems under the 
                        Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;
                            ``(iv) include a description of how the 
                        State--
                                    ``(I) promotes evidence-based 
                                practices, including those evidence-
                                based programs that address the needs 
                                of individuals with early serious 
                                mental illness regardless of the age of 
                                the individual at onset;
                                    ``(II) provides comprehensive 
                                individualized treatment; or
                                    ``(III) integrates mental and 
                                physical health services;
                            ``(v) include a description of case 
                        management services in the State;
                            ``(vi) include a description of activities 
                        that seek to engage individuals with serious 
                        mental illness or serious emotional disturbance 
                        and their caregivers where appropriate in 
                        making health care decisions, including 
                        activities that enhance communication between 
                        individuals, families, caregivers, and 
                        treatment providers; and
                            ``(vii) as appropriate to and reflective of 
                        the uses the State proposes for the block grant 
                        monies--
                                    ``(I) a description of the 
                                activities intended to reduce 
                                hospitalizations and hospital stays 
                                using the block grant monies;
                                    ``(II) a description of the 
                                activities intended to reduce incidents 
                                of suicide using the block grant 
                                monies; and
                                    ``(III) a description of how the 
                                State integrates mental health and 
                                primary care using the block grant 
                                monies.
                    ``(B) Mental health system data and epidemiology.--
                The plan shall contain an estimate of the incidence and 
                prevalence in the State of serious mental illness among 
                adults and serious emotional disturbance among children 
                and presents quantitative targets and outcome measures 
                for programs and services provided under this subpart.
                    ``(C) Children's services.--In the case of children 
                with serious emotional disturbance (as defined in 
                accordance with subsection (c)), the plan shall provide 
                for a system of integrated social services, educational 
                services, child welfare services, juvenile justice 
                services, law enforcement services, and substance use 
                disorder services that, together with health and mental 
                health services, will be provided in order for such 
                children to receive care appropriate for their multiple 
                needs (such system to include services provided under 
                the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act).
                    ``(D) Targeted services to rural and homeless 
                populations.--The plan shall describe the State's 
                outreach to and services for individuals who are 
                homeless and how community-based services will be 
                provided to individuals residing in rural areas.
                    ``(E) Management services.--The plan shall--
                            ``(i) describe the financial resources 
                        available, the existing mental health 
                        workforce, and the workforce trained in 
                        treating individuals with co-occurring mental 
                        illness and substance use disorders;
                            ``(ii) provide for the training of 
                        providers of emergency health services 
                        regarding mental health;
                            ``(iii) describe the manner in which the 
                        State intends to expend the grant under section 
                        1911 for the fiscal year involved; and
                            ``(iv) describe the manner in which the 
                        State intends to comply with each of the 
                        funding agreements in this subpart and subpart 
                        III.
            ``(2) Goals and objectives.--The plan establishes goals and 
        objectives for the period of the plan, including targets and 
        milestones that are intended to be met, and the activities that 
        will be undertaken to achieve those goals and objectives.''.
    (c) Best Practices in Clinical Care Models.--Section 1920 of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-9) is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(c) Best Practices in Clinical Care Models.--A State shall expend 
not less than 10 percent of the amount the State receives for carrying 
out this subpart in each fiscal year to support evidence-based programs 
that address the needs of individuals with early serious mental 
illness, including psychotic disorders, regardless of the age of the 
individual at the onset of such illness.''.
    (d) Additional Provisions.--Section 1915(b) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-4(b)) is amended--
            (1) by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:
            ``(1) In general.--A funding agreement for a grant under 
        section 1911 is that the State involved will maintain State 
        expenditures for community mental health services at a level 
        that is not less than the average of the amounts prescribed by 
        this paragraph (prior to any waiver under paragraph (3)) for 
        such expenditures by such State for each of the 2 fiscal years 
        immediately preceding the fiscal year for which the State is 
        applying for the grant.'';
            (2) in paragraph (2)--
                    (A) by striking ``under subsection (a)'' and 
                inserting ``specified in paragraph (1)''; and
                    (B) by striking ``principle'' and inserting 
                ``principal'';
            (3) by amending paragraph (3) to read as follows:
            ``(3) Waiver.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Secretary may, upon the 
                request of a State, waive the requirement established 
                in paragraph (1) in whole or in part, if the Secretary 
                determines that extraordinary economic conditions in 
                the State in the fiscal year involved or in the 
                previous fiscal year justify the waiver.
                    ``(B) Date certain for action upon request.--The 
                Secretary shall approve or deny a request for a waiver 
                under this paragraph not later than 120 days after the 
                date on which the request is made.
                    ``(C) Applicability of waiver.--A waiver provided 
                by the Secretary under this paragraph shall be 
                applicable only to the fiscal year involved.''; and
            (4) in paragraph (4)--
                    (A) by amending subparagraph (A) to read as 
                follows:
                    ``(A) In general.--
                            ``(i) Determination and reduction.--The 
                        Secretary shall determine, in the case of each 
                        State, and for each fiscal year, whether the 
                        State maintained material compliance with the 
                        agreement made under paragraph (1). If the 
                        Secretary determines that a State has failed to 
                        maintain such compliance for a fiscal year, the 
                        Secretary shall reduce the amount of the 
                        allotment under section 1911 for the State, for 
                        the first fiscal year beginning after such 
                        determination is final, by an amount equal to 
                        the amount constituting such failure for the 
                        previous fiscal year about which the 
                        determination was made.
                            ``(ii) Alternative sanction.--The Secretary 
                        may by regulation provide for an alternative 
                        method of imposing a sanction for a failure by 
                        a State to maintain material compliance with 
                        the agreement under paragraph (1) if the 
                        Secretary determines that such alternative 
                        method would be more equitable and would be a 
                        more effective incentive for States to maintain 
                        such material compliance.''; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)--
                            (i) by inserting after the subparagraph 
                        designation the following: ``Submission of 
                        information to the secretary.--''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``subparagraph (A)'' and 
                        inserting ``subparagraph (A)(i)''.
    (e) Application for Grant.--Section 1917(a) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300x-6(a)) is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1), by striking ``1941'' and inserting 
        ``1942(a)''; and
            (2) in paragraph (5), by striking ``1915(b)(3)(B)'' and 
        inserting ``1915(b)''.

     Subtitle C--Strengthening Mental Health Care for Children and 
                              Adolescents

SEC. 621. TELE-MENTAL HEALTH CARE ACCESS GRANTS.

    Title III of the Public Health Service Act is amended by inserting 
after section 330L of such Act (42 U.S.C. 254c-18) the following new 
section:

``SEC. 330M. TELE-MENTAL HEALTH CARE ACCESS GRANTS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Administrator 
of the Health Resources and Services Administration and in coordination 
with other relevant Federal agencies, shall award grants to States, 
political subdivisions of States, Indian tribes, and tribal 
organizations (for purposes of this section, as such terms are defined 
in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance 
Act (25 U.S.C. 450b)) to promote behavioral health integration in 
pediatric primary care by--
            ``(1) supporting the development of statewide child mental 
        health care access programs; and
            ``(2) supporting the improvement of existing statewide 
        child mental health care access programs.
    ``(b) Program Requirements.--
            ``(1) In general.--A child mental health care access 
        program referred to in subsection (a), with respect to which a 
        grant under such subsection may be used, shall--
                    ``(A) be a statewide network of pediatric mental 
                health teams that provide support to pediatric primary 
                care sites as an integrated team;
                    ``(B) support and further develop organized State 
                networks of child and adolescent psychiatrists and 
                psychologists to provide consultative support to 
                pediatric primary care sites;
                    ``(C) conduct an assessment of critical behavioral 
                consultation needs among pediatric providers and such 
                providers' preferred mechanisms for receiving 
                consultation and training and technical assistance;
                    ``(D) develop an online database and communication 
                mechanisms, including telehealth, to facilitate 
                consultation support to pediatric practices;
                    ``(E) provide rapid statewide clinical telephone or 
                telehealth consultations when requested between the 
                pediatric mental health teams and pediatric primary 
                care providers;
                    ``(F) conduct training and provide technical 
                assistance to pediatric primary care providers to 
                support the early identification, diagnosis, treatment, 
                and referral of children with behavioral health 
                conditions or co-occurring intellectual and other 
                developmental disabilities;
                    ``(G) provide information to pediatric providers 
                about, and assist pediatric providers in accessing, 
                child psychiatry and psychology consultations and in 
                scheduling and conducting technical assistance;
                    ``(H) assist with referrals to specialty care and 
                community or behavioral health resources; and
                    ``(I) establish mechanisms for measuring and 
                monitoring increased access to child and adolescent 
                psychiatric and psychology services by pediatric 
                primary care providers and expanded capacity of 
                pediatric primary care providers to identify, treat, 
                and refer children with mental health problems.
            ``(2) Pediatric mental health teams.--In this subsection, 
        the term `pediatric mental health team' means a team of case 
        coordinators, child and adolescent psychiatrists, and licensed 
        clinical mental health professionals, such as a psychologist, 
        social worker, or mental health counselor.
    ``(c) Application.--A State, political subdivision of a State, 
Indian tribe, or tribal organization seeking a grant under this section 
shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such 
manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, 
including a plan for the rigorous evaluation of activities that are 
carried out with funds received under such grant.
    ``(d) Evaluation.--A State, political subdivision of a State, 
Indian tribe, or tribal organization that receives a grant under this 
section shall prepare and submit an evaluation of activities carried 
out with funds received under such grant to the Secretary at such time, 
in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may 
reasonably require, including a process and outcome evaluation.
    ``(e) Matching Requirement.--The Secretary may not award a grant 
under this section unless the State, political subdivision of a State, 
Indian tribe, or tribal organization involved agrees, with respect to 
the costs to be incurred by the State, political subdivision of a 
State, Indian tribe, or tribal organization in carrying out the purpose 
described in this section, to make available non-Federal contributions 
(in cash or in kind) toward such costs in an amount that is not less 
than 20 percent of Federal funds provided in the grant.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $9,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2020.''.

SEC. 622. INFANT AND EARLY CHILDHOOD MENTAL HEALTH PROMOTION, 
              INTERVENTION, AND TREATMENT.

    Part Q of title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 
290h et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

``SEC. 399Z-2. INFANT AND EARLY CHILDHOOD MENTAL HEALTH PROMOTION, 
              INTERVENTION, AND TREATMENT.

    ``(a) Grants.--The Secretary shall--
            ``(1) award grants to eligible entities, including human 
        services agencies, to develop, maintain, or enhance infant and 
        early childhood mental health promotion, intervention, and 
        treatment programs, including--
                    ``(A) programs for infants and children at 
                significant risk of developing, showing early signs of, 
                or having been diagnosed with mental illness including 
                serious emotional disturbance; and
                    ``(B) multigenerational therapy and other services 
                that support the caregiving relationship; and
            ``(2) ensure that programs funded through grants under this 
        section are evidence-informed or evidence-based models, 
        practices, and methods that are, as appropriate, culturally and 
        linguistically appropriate, and can be replicated in other 
        appropriate settings.
    ``(b) Eligible Children and Entities.--In this section:
            ``(1) Eligible child.--The term `eligible child' means a 
        child from birth to not more than 5 years of age who--
                    ``(A) is at risk for, shows early signs of, or has 
                been diagnosed with a mental illness, including serious 
                emotional disturbance; and
                    ``(B) may benefit from infant and early childhood 
                intervention or treatment programs or specialized 
                preschool or elementary school programs that are 
                evidence-based or that have been scientifically 
                demonstrated to show promise but would benefit from 
                further applied development.
            ``(2) Eligible entity.--The term `eligible entity' means a 
        nonprofit institution that--
                    ``(A) is accredited or approved by a State mental 
                health or education agency, as applicable, to provide 
                for children from infancy to 5 years of age mental 
                health promotion, intervention, or treatment services 
                that are evidence-based or that have been 
                scientifically demonstrated to show promise but would 
                benefit from further applied development; and
                    ``(B) provides programs described in subsection (a) 
                that are evidence-based or that have been 
                scientifically demonstrated to show promise but would 
                benefit from further applied development.
    ``(c) Application.--An eligible entity seeking a grant under 
subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary an application at such 
time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary 
may require.
    ``(d) Use of Funds for Early Intervention and Treatment Programs.--
An eligible entity may use amounts awarded under a grant under 
subsection (a)(1) to carry out the following:
            ``(1) Provide age-appropriate mental health promotion and 
        early intervention services or mental illness treatment 
        services, which may include specialized programs, for eligible 
        children at significant risk of developing, showing early signs 
        of, or having been diagnosed with a mental illness, including 
        serious emotional disturbance. Such services may include social 
        and behavioral services as well as multigenerational therapy 
        and other services ?that support the caregiving relationship.
            ``(2) Provide training for health care professionals with 
        expertise in infant and early childhood mental health care with 
        respect to appropriate and relevant integration with other 
        disciplines such as primary care clinicians, early intervention 
        specialists, child welfare staff, home visitors, early care and 
        education providers, and others who work with young children 
        and families.
            ``(3) Provide mental health consultation to personnel of 
        early care and education programs (including licensed or 
        regulated center-based and home-based child care, home 
        visiting, preschool special education, and early intervention 
        programs) who work with children and families.
            ``(4) Provide training for mental health clinicians in 
        infant and early childhood in promising and evidence-based 
        practices and models for infant and early childhood mental 
        health treatment and early intervention, including with regard 
        to practices for identifying and treating mental illness and 
        behavioral disorders of infants and children resulting from 
        exposure or repeated exposure to adverse childhood experiences 
        or childhood trauma.
            ``(5) Provide age-appropriate assessment, diagnostic, and 
        intervention services for eligible children, including early 
        mental health promotion, intervention, and treatment services.
    ``(e) Matching Funds.--The Secretary may not award a grant under 
this section to an eligible entity unless the eligible entity agrees, 
with respect to the costs to be incurred by the eligible entity in 
carrying out the activities described in subsection (d), to make 
available non-Federal contributions (in cash or in kind) toward such 
costs in an amount that is not less than 10 percent of the total amount 
of Federal funds provided in the grant.
    ``(f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $20,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2022.''.

SEC. 623. NATIONAL CHILD TRAUMATIC STRESS INITIATIVE.

    Section 582 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290hh-1; 
relating to grants to address the problems of persons who experience 
violence related stress) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), by striking ``developing programs'' 
        and all that follows and inserting the following: ``developing 
        and maintaining programs that provide for--
            ``(1) the continued operation of the National Child 
        Traumatic Stress Initiative (referred to in this section as the 
        `NCTSI'), which includes a coordinating center that focuses on 
        the mental, behavioral, and biological aspects of psychological 
        trauma response; and
            ``(2) the development of knowledge with regard to evidence-
        based practices for identifying and treating mental illness, 
        behavioral disorders, and physical health conditions of 
        children and youth resulting from witnessing or experiencing a 
        traumatic event.'';
            (2) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) by striking ``subsection (a) related'' and 
                inserting ``subsection (a)(2) (related'';
                    (B) by striking ``treating disorders associated 
                with psychological trauma'' and inserting ``treating 
                mental illness and behavioral and biological disorders 
                associated with psychological trauma)''; and
                    (C) by striking ``mental health agencies and 
                programs that have established clinical and basic 
                research'' and inserting ``universities, hospitals, 
                mental health agencies, and other programs that have 
                established clinical expertise and research'';
            (3) by redesignating subsections (c) through (g) as 
        subsections (g) through (k), respectively;
            (4) by inserting after subsection (b), the following:
    ``(c) Child Outcome Data.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall 
collect, analyze, report, and make publicly available NCTSI-wide child 
treatment process and outcome data regarding the early identification 
and delivery of evidence-based treatment and services for children and 
families served by the NCTSI grantees.
    ``(d) Training.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall facilitate the 
coordination of training initiatives in evidence-based and trauma-
informed treatments, interventions, and practices offered to NCTSI 
grantees, providers, and partners.
    ``(e) Dissemination.--The NCTSI coordinating center shall, as 
appropriate, collaborate with the Secretary in the dissemination of 
evidence-based and trauma-informed interventions, treatments, products, 
and other resources to appropriate stakeholders.
    ``(f) Review.--The Secretary shall, consistent with the peer-review 
process, ensure that NCTSI applications are reviewed by appropriate 
experts in the field as part of a consensus review process. The 
Secretary shall include review criteria related to expertise and 
experience in child trauma and evidence-based practices.'';
            (5) in subsection (g) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``with respect to centers of excellence are distributed 
        equitably among the regions of the country'' and inserting 
        ``are distributed equitably among the regions of the United 
        States'';
            (6) in subsection (i) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``recipient may not exceed 5 years'' and inserting ``recipient 
        shall not be less than 4 years, but shall not exceed 5 years''; 
        and
            (7) in subsection (j) (as so redesignated), by striking 
        ``$50,000,000'' and all that follows through ``2006'' and 
        inserting ``$46,887,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 through 
        2021''.

         TITLE VII--GRANT PROGRAMS AND PROGRAM REAUTHORIZATION

       Subtitle A--Garrett Lee Smith Memorial Act Reauthorization

SEC. 701. YOUTH INTERAGENCY RESEARCH, TRAINING, AND TECHNICAL 
              ASSISTANCE CENTERS.

    Section 520C of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-34) 
is amended--
            (1) by striking the section heading and inserting ``suicide 
        prevention technical assistance center.'';
            (2) in subsection (a), by striking ``and in consultation 
        with'' and all that follows through the period at the end of 
        paragraph (2) and inserting ``shall establish a research, 
        training, and technical assistance resource center to provide 
        appropriate information, training, and technical assistance to 
        States, political subdivisions of States, federally recognized 
        Indian tribes, tribal organizations, institutions of higher 
        education, public organizations, or private nonprofit 
        organizations regarding the prevention of suicide among all 
        ages, particularly among groups that are at high risk for 
        suicide.'';
            (3) by striking subsections (b) and (c);
            (4) by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (b);
            (5) in subsection (b), as so redesignated--
                    (A) by striking the subsection heading and 
                inserting ``Responsibilities of the Center.--'';
                    (B) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``The additional research'' and all that 
                follows through ``nonprofit organizations for'' and 
                inserting ``The center established under subsection (a) 
                shall conduct activities for the purpose of'';
                    (C) by striking ``youth suicide'' each place such 
                term appears and inserting ``suicide'';
                    (D) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``the development or 
                        continuation of'' and inserting ``developing 
                        and continuing''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``for all ages, 
                        particularly among groups that are at high risk 
                        for suicide'' before the semicolon at the end;
                    (E) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``for all ages, 
                particularly among groups that are at high risk for 
                suicide'' before the semicolon at the end;
                    (F) in paragraph (3), by inserting ``and tribal'' 
                after ``statewide'';
                    (G) in paragraph (5), by inserting ``and 
                prevention'' after ``intervention'';
                    (H) in paragraph (8), by striking ``in youth'';
                    (I) in paragraph (9), by striking ``and behavioral 
                health'' and inserting ``health and substance use 
                disorder''; and
                    (J) in paragraph (10), by inserting ``conducting'' 
                before ``other''; and
            (6) by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following:
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $5,988,000 
for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.
    ``(d) Report.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of the Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016, the 
Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the activities carried 
out by the center established under subsection (a) during the year 
involved, including the potential effects of such activities, and the 
States, organizations, and institutions that have worked with the 
center.''.

SEC. 702. YOUTH SUICIDE EARLY INTERVENTION AND PREVENTION STRATEGIES.

    Section 520E of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-36) 
is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and in subsection 
        (c), by striking ``substance abuse'' each place such term 
        appears and inserting ``substance use disorder'';
            (2) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``each State is awarded only 1 
                grant or cooperative agreement under this section'' and 
                inserting ``a State does not receive more than one 
                grant or cooperative agreement under this section at 
                any one time''; and
                    (B) by striking ``been awarded'' and inserting 
                ``received''; and
            (3) by striking subsection (m) and inserting the following:
    ``(m) Authorization of Appropriations.--For the purpose of carrying 
out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated $35,427,000 
for each of fiscal years 2017 through 2021.''.

SEC. 703. MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER SERVICES ON CAMPUS.

    Section 520E-2 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb-
36b) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``and behavioral 
        health'' and inserting ``health and substance use disorder'';
            (2) in subsection (a)--
                    (A) by striking ``Services,'' and inserting 
                ``Services and'';
                    (B) by striking ``and behavioral health problems'' 
                and inserting ``health or substance use disorders''; 
                and
                    (C) by striking ``substance abuse'' and inserting 
                ``substance use disorders'';
            (3) in subsection (b)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``for--'' and inserting ``for one or more of 
                the following:''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraphs (1) through (6) and 
                inserting the following:
            ``(1) Educating students, families, faculty, and staff to 
        increase awareness of mental health and substance use 
        disorders.
            ``(2) The operation of hotlines.
            ``(3) Preparing informational material.
            ``(4) Providing outreach services to notify students about 
        available mental health and substance use disorder services.
            ``(5) Administering voluntary mental health and substance 
        use disorder screenings and assessments.
            ``(6) Supporting the training of students, faculty, and 
        staff to respond effectively to students with mental health and 
        substance use disorders.
            ``(7) Creating a network infrastructure to link colleges 
        and universities with health care providers who treat mental 
        health and substance use disorders.'';
            (4) in subsection (c)(5), by striking ``substance abuse'' 
        and inserting ``substance use disorder'';
            (5) in subsection (d)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by 
                striking ``An institution of higher education desiring 
                a grant under this section'' and inserting ``To be 
                eligible to receive a grant under this section, an 
                institution of higher education'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``and behavioral health'' 
                        and inserting ``health and substance use 
                        disorder''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, including veterans 
                        whenever possible and appropriate,'' after 
                        ``students''; and
                    (C) in paragraph (2), by inserting ``, which may 
                include, as appropriate and in accordance with 
                subsection (b)(7), a plan to seek input from relevant 
                stakeholders in the community, including appropriate 
                public and private entities, in order to carry out the 
                program under the grant'' before the period at the end;
            (6) in subsection (e)(1), by striking ``and behavioral 
        health problems'' and inserting ``health and substance use 
        disorders'';
            (7) in subsection (f)(2)--
                    (A) by striking ``and behavioral health'' and 
                inserting ``health and substance use disorder''; and
                    (B) by striking ``suicide and substance abuse'' and 
                inserting ``suicide and substance use disorders''; and
            (8) in subsection (h), by striking ``$5,000,000 for fiscal 
        year 2005'' and all that follows through the period at the end 
        and inserting ``$6,488,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 
        through 2021.''.

                      Subtitle B--Other Provisions

SEC. 711. NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE PROGRAM.

    Subpart 3 of part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 290bb-31 et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 520E-2 
(42 U.S.C. 290bb-36b) the following:

``SEC. 520E-3. NATIONAL SUICIDE PREVENTION LIFELINE PROGRAM.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary, acting through the Assistant 
Secretary, shall maintain the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 
Program (referred to in this section as the `Program'), authorized 
under section 520A and in effect prior to the date of enactment of the 
Helping Families in Mental Health Crisis Act of 2016.
    ``(b) Activities.--In maintaining the Program, the activities of 
the Secretary shall include--
            ``(1) coordinating a network of crisis centers across the 
        United States for providing suicide prevention and crisis 
        intervention services to individuals seeking help at any time, 
        day or night;
            ``(2) maintaining a suicide prevention hotline to link 
        callers to local emergency, mental health, and social services 
        resources; and
            ``(3) consulting with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs to 
        ensure that veterans calling the suicide prevention hotline 
        have access to a specialized veterans' suicide prevention 
        hotline.
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $7,198,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017 through 2021.''.

SEC. 712. WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT STUDIES AND REPORTS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance 
Use, in consultation with the Administrator of the Health Resources and 
Services Administration, shall conduct a study, and publicly post on 
the appropriate Internet website of the Department of Health and Human 
Services a report, on the mental health and substance use disorder 
workforce in order to inform Federal, State, and local efforts related 
to workforce enhancement.
    (b) Contents.--The report under this section shall contain--
            (1) national and State-level projections of the supply and 
        demand of mental health and substance use disorder health 
        workers, including the number of individuals practicing in 
        fields deemed relevant by the Secretary;
            (2) an assessment of the mental health and substance use 
        disorder workforce capacity, strengths, and weaknesses as of 
        the date of the report, including the capacity of primary care 
        to prevent, screen, treat, or refer for mental health and 
        substance use disorders;
            (3) information on trends within the mental health and 
        substance use disorder provider workforce, including the number 
        of individuals entering the mental health workforce over the 
        next 5 years;
            (4) information on the gaps in workforce development for 
        mental health providers and professionals, including those who 
        serve pediatric, adult, and geriatric patients; and
            (5) any additional information determined by the Assistant 
        Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, in consultation 
        with the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services 
        Administration, to be relevant to the mental health and 
        substance use disorder provider workforce.

SEC. 713. MINORITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM.

    Title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290aa et seq.) 
is amended by adding at the end the following:

                 ``PART K--MINORITY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM

``SEC. 597. FELLOWSHIPS.

    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary shall maintain a program, to be 
known as the Minority Fellowship Program, under which the Secretary 
awards fellowships, which may include stipends, for the purposes of--
            ``(1) increasing behavioral health practitioners' knowledge 
        of issues related to prevention, treatment, and recovery 
        support for mental illness and substance use disorders among 
        racial and ethnic minority populations;
            ``(2) improving the quality of mental illness and substance 
        use disorder prevention and treatment delivered to racial and 
        ethnic minorities; and
            ``(3) increasing the number of culturally competent 
        behavioral health professionals and school personnel who teach, 
        administer, conduct services research, and provide direct 
        mental health or substance use services to racial and ethnic 
        minority populations.
    ``(b) Training Covered.--The fellowships under subsection (a) shall 
be for postbaccalaureate training (including for master's and doctoral 
degrees) for mental health professionals, including in the fields of 
psychiatry, nursing, social work, psychology, marriage and family 
therapy, mental health counseling, and substance use and addiction 
counseling.
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there are authorized to be appropriated $12,669,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2017, 2018, and 2019 and $13,669,000 for each of fiscal years 
2020 and 2021.''.

SEC. 714. CENTER AND PROGRAM REPEALS.

    Part B of title V of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 290bb 
et seq.) is amended by striking the second section 514 (42 U.S.C. 
290bb-9), relating to methamphetamine and amphetamine treatment 
initiatives, and sections 514A, 517, 519A, 519C, 519E, 520D, and 520H 
(42 U.S.C. 290bb-8, 290bb-23, 290bb-25a, 290bb-25c, 290bb-25e, 290bb-
35, and 290bb-39).

SEC. 715. NATIONAL VIOLENT DEATH REPORTING SYSTEM.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, is 
encouraged to improve, particularly through the inclusion of additional 
States, the National Violent Death Reporting System as authorized by 
title III of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 241 et seq.). 
Participation in the system by the States shall be voluntary.

SEC. 716. SENSE OF CONGRESS ON PRIORITIZING NATIVE AMERICAN YOUTH AND 
              SUICIDE PREVENTION PROGRAMS.

    (a) Findings.--The Congress finds as follows:
            (1) Suicide is the eighth leading cause of death among 
        American Indians and Alaska Natives across all ages.
            (2) Among American Indians and Alaska Natives who are 10 to 
        34 years of age, suicide is the second leading cause of death.
            (3) The suicide rate among American Indian and Alaska 
        Native adolescents and young adults ages 15 to 34 (19.5 per 
        100,000) is 1.5 times higher than the national average for that 
        age group (12.9 per 100,000).
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, in carrying out programs for 
Native American youth and suicide prevention programs for youth suicide 
intervention, should prioritize programs and activities for individuals 
who have a high risk or disproportional burden of suicide, such as 
Native Americans.

SEC. 717. PEER PROFESSIONAL WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) In General.--For the purposes described in subsection (b), the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services shall award grants to develop 
and sustain behavioral health paraprofessional training and education 
programs, including through tuition support.
    (b) Purposes.--The purposes of grants under this section are--
            (1) to increase the number of behavioral health 
        paraprofessionals, including trained peers, recovery coaches, 
        mental health and addiction specialists, prevention 
        specialists, and pre-masters-level addiction counselors; and
            (2) to help communities develop the infrastructure to train 
        and certify peers as behavioral health paraprofessionals.
    (c) Eligible Entities.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
this section, an entity shall be a community college or other entity 
the Secretary deems appropriate.
    (d) Geographic Distribution.--In awarding grants under this 
section, the Secretary shall seek to achieve an appropriate national 
balance in the geographic distribution of such awards.
    (e) Special Consideration.--In awarding grants under this section, 
the Secretary may give special consideration to proposed and existing 
programs targeting peer professionals serving youth ages 16 to 25.
    (f) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

SEC. 718. NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS.

    (a) Definitions.--
            (1) Primary health services.--Section 331(a)(3)(D) of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)) is amended by 
        inserting ``(including pediatric mental health subspecialty 
        services)'' after ``pediatrics''.
            (2) Behavioral and mental health professionals.--Clause (i) 
        of section 331(a)(3)(E) of the Public Health Service Act (42 
        U.S.C. 254d(a)(3)(E)) is amended by inserting ``(and pediatric 
        subspecialists thereof)'' before the period at the end.
    (b) Eligibility To Participate in Loan Repayment Program.--Section 
338B(b)(1)(B) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 254l-
1(b)(1)(B)) is amended by inserting ``, including any physician child 
and adolescent psychiatry residency or fellowship training program'' 
after ``be enrolled in an approved graduate training program in 
medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, behavioral and mental 
health, or other health profession''.

SEC. 719. ADULT SUICIDE PREVENTION.

    (a) Grants.--
            (1) Authority.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health 
        and Substance Use (referred to in this section as the 
        ``Assistant Secretary'') may award grants to eligible entities 
        in order to implement suicide prevention efforts amongst adults 
        25 and older.
            (2) Purpose.--The grant program under this section shall be 
        designed to raise suicide awareness, establish referral 
        processes, and improve clinical care practice standards for 
        treating suicide ideation, plans, and attempts among adults.
            (3) Recipients.--To be eligible to receive a grant under 
        this section, an entity shall be a community-based primary care 
        or behavioral health care setting, an emergency department, a 
        State mental health agency, an Indian tribe, a tribal 
        organization, or any other entity the Assistant Secretary deems 
        appropriate.
            (4) Nature of activities.--The grants awarded under 
        paragraph (1) shall be used to implement programs that--
                    (A) screen for suicide risk in adults and provide 
                intervention and referral to treatment;
                    (B) implement evidence-based practices to treat 
                individuals who are at suicide risk, including 
                appropriate followup services; and
                    (C) raise awareness, reduce stigma, and foster open 
                dialogue about suicide prevention.
    (b) Additional Activities.--The Assistant Secretary shall--
            (1) evaluate the activities supported by grants awarded 
        under subsection (a) in order to further the Nation's 
        understanding of effective interventions to prevent suicide in 
        adults;
            (2) disseminate the findings from the evaluation as the 
        Assistant Secretary considers appropriate; and
            (3) provide appropriate information, training, and 
        technical assistance to eligible entities that receive a grant 
        under this section, in order to help such entities to meet the 
        requirements of this section, including assistance with--
                    (A) selection and implementation of evidence-based 
                interventions and frameworks to prevent suicide, such 
                as the Zero Suicide framework; and
                    (B) other activities as the Assistant Secretary 
                determines appropriate.
    (c) Duration.--A grant under this section shall be for a period of 
not more than 5 years.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--There is authorized to be appropriated to 
        carry out this section $30,000,000 for the period of fiscal 
        years 2018 through 2022.
            (2) Use of certain funds.--Of the funds appropriated to 
        carry out this section in any fiscal year, the lesser of 5 
        percent of such funds or $500,000 shall be available to the 
        Assistant Secretary for purposes of carrying out subsection 
        (b).

SEC. 720. CRISIS INTERVENTION GRANTS FOR POLICE OFFICERS AND FIRST 
              RESPONDERS.

    (a) In General.--The Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and 
Substance Use may award grants to entities such as law enforcement 
agencies and first responders--
            (1) to provide specialized training to law enforcement 
        officers, corrections officers, paramedics, emergency medical 
        services workers, and other first responders (including village 
        public safety officers (as defined in section 247 of the Indian 
        Arts and Crafts Amendments Act of 2010 (42 U.S.C. 3796dd 
        note)))--
                    (A) to recognize individuals who have mental 
                illness and how to properly intervene with individuals 
                with mental illness; and
                    (B) to establish programs that enhance the ability 
                of law enforcement agencies to address the mental 
                health, behavioral, and substance use problems of 
                individuals encountered in the line of duty; and
            (2) to establish collaborative law enforcement and mental 
        health programs, including behavioral health response teams and 
        mental health crisis intervention teams comprised of mental 
        health professionals, law enforcement officers, and other first 
        responders, as appropriate, to provide on-site, face-to-face, 
        mental and behavioral health care services during a mental 
        health crisis, and to connect the individual in crisis to 
        appropriate community-based treatment services in lieu of 
        unnecessary hospitalization or further involvement with the 
        criminal justice system.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $9,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2020.

SEC. 721. DEMONSTRATION GRANT PROGRAM TO TRAIN HEALTH SERVICE 
              PSYCHOLOGISTS IN COMMUNITY-BASED MENTAL HEALTH.

    (a) Establishment.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
shall establish a grant program under which the Assistant Secretary of 
Mental Health and Substance Use Disorders may award grants to eligible 
institutions to support the recruitment, education, and clinical 
training experiences of health services psychology students, interns, 
and postdoctoral residents for education and clinical experience in 
community mental health settings.
    (b) Eligible Institutions.--For purposes of this section, the term 
``eligible institutions'' includes American Psychological Association-
accredited doctoral, internship, and postdoctoral residency schools or 
programs in health service psychology that--
            (1) are focused on the development and implementation of 
        interdisciplinary training of psychology graduate students and 
        postdoctoral fellows in providing mental and behavioral health 
        services to address substance use disorders, serious emotional 
        disturbance, and serious illness, as well as developing faculty 
        and implementing curriculum to prepare psychologists to work 
        with underserved populations; and
            (2) demonstrate an ability to train health service 
        psychologists in psychiatric hospitals, forensic hospitals, 
        community mental health centers, community health centers, 
        federally qualified health centers, or adult and juvenile 
        correctional facilities.
    (c) Priorities.--In selecting grant recipients under this section, 
the Secretary shall give priority to eligible institutions in which 
training focuses on the needs of individuals with serious mental 
illness, serious emotional disturbance, justice-involved youth, and 
individuals with or at high risk for substance use disorders.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to carry out this section $12,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2022.

SEC. 722. INVESTMENT IN TOMORROW'S PEDIATRIC HEALTH CARE WORKFORCE.

    Section 775(e) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 295f(e)) 
is amended to read as follows:
    ``(e) Authorization of Appropriations.--To carry out this section, 
there is authorized to be appropriated $12,000,000 for the period of 
fiscal years 2018 through 2022.''.

SEC. 723. CUTGO COMPLIANCE.

    Section 319D(f) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d-
4(f)) is amended by striking ``$138,300,000 for each of fiscal years 
2014 through 2018'' and inserting ``$138,300,000 for each of fiscal 
years 2014 through 2016 and $58,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2017 
and 2018''.

                    TITLE VIII--MENTAL HEALTH PARITY

SEC. 801. ENHANCED COMPLIANCE WITH MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              DISORDER COVERAGE REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Compliance Program Guidance Document.--Section 2726(a) of the 
Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-26(a)) is amended by adding 
at the end the following:
            ``(6) Compliance program guidance document.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 12 months after 
                the date of enactment of the Helping Families in Mental 
                Health Crisis Act of 2016, the Secretary, the Secretary 
                of Labor, and the Secretary of the Treasury, in 
                consultation with the Inspector General of the 
                Department of Health and Human Services, shall issue a 
                compliance program guidance document to help improve 
                compliance with this section, section 712 of the 
                Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and 
                section 9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
                applicable.
                    ``(B) Examples illustrating compliance and 
                noncompliance.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The compliance program 
                        guidance document required under this paragraph 
                        shall provide illustrative, de-identified 
                        examples (that do not disclose any protected 
                        health information or individually identifiable 
                        information) of previous findings of compliance 
                        and noncompliance with this section, section 
                        712 of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
                        Act of 1974, or section 9812 of the Internal 
                        Revenue Code of 1986, as applicable, based on 
                        investigations of violations of such sections, 
                        including--
                                    ``(I) examples illustrating 
                                requirements for information 
                                disclosures and nonquantitative 
                                treatment limitations; and
                                    ``(II) descriptions of the 
                                violations uncovered during the course 
                                of such investigations.
                            ``(ii) Nonquantitative treatment 
                        limitations.--To the extent that any example 
                        described in clause (i) involves a finding of 
                        compliance or noncompliance with regard to any 
                        requirement for nonquantitative treatment 
                        limitations, the example shall provide 
                        sufficient detail to fully explain such 
                        finding, including a full description of the 
                        criteria involved for medical and surgical 
                        benefits and the criteria involved for mental 
                        health and substance use disorder benefits.
                            ``(iii) Access to additional information 
                        regarding compliance.--In developing and 
                        issuing the compliance program guidance 
                        document required under this paragraph, the 
                        Secretaries specified in subparagraph (A)--
                                    ``(I) shall enter into interagency 
                                agreements with the Inspector General 
                                of the Department of Health and Human 
                                Services, the Inspector General of the 
                                Department of Labor, and the Inspector 
                                General of the Department of the 
                                Treasury to share findings of 
                                compliance and noncompliance with this 
                                section, section 712 of the Employee 
                                Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 
                                or section 9812 of the Internal Revenue 
                                Code of 1986, as applicable; and
                                    ``(II) shall seek to enter into an 
                                agreement with a State to share 
                                information on findings of compliance 
                                and noncompliance with this section, 
                                section 712 of the Employee Retirement 
                                Income Security Act of 1974, or section 
                                9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                                1986, as applicable.
                    ``(C) Recommendations.--The compliance program 
                guidance document shall include recommendations to 
                comply with this section, section 712 of the Employee 
                Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or section 9812 
                of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as applicable, 
                and encourage the development and use of internal 
                controls to monitor adherence to applicable statutes, 
                regulations, and program requirements. Such internal 
                controls may include a compliance checklist with 
                illustrative examples of nonquantitative treatment 
                limitations on mental health and substance use disorder 
                benefits, which may fail to comply with this section, 
                section 712 of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
                Act of 1974, or section 9812 of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986, as applicable, in relation to 
                nonquantitative treatment limitations on medical and 
                surgical benefits.
                    ``(D) Updating the compliance program guidance 
                document.--The compliance program guidance document 
                shall be updated every 2 years to include illustrative, 
                de-identified examples (that do not disclose any 
                protected health information or individually 
                identifiable information) of previous findings of 
                compliance and noncompliance with this section, section 
                712 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 
                1974, or section 9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 
                1986, as applicable.''.
    (b) Additional Guidance.--Section 2726(a) of the Public Health 
Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-26(a)), as amended by subsection (a), is 
further amended by adding at the end the following:
            ``(7) Additional guidance.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of the Helping Families in Mental 
                Health Crisis Act of 2016, the Secretary, in 
                coordination with the Secretary of Labor and the 
                Secretary of the Treasury, shall issue guidance to 
                group health plans and health insurance issuers 
                offering group or individual health insurance coverage 
                to assist such plans and issuers in satisfying the 
                requirements of this section, section 712 of the 
                Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, or 
                section 9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
                applicable,.
                    ``(B) Disclosure.--
                            ``(i) Guidance for plans and issuers.--The 
                        guidance issued under this paragraph shall 
                        include clarifying information and illustrative 
                        examples of methods that group health plans and 
                        health insurance issuers offering group or 
                        individual health insurance coverage may use 
                        for disclosing information to ensure compliance 
                        with the requirements under this section, 
                        section 712 of the Employee Retirement Income 
                        Security Act of 1974, or section 9812 of the 
                        Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as applicable, 
                        (and any regulations promulgated pursuant to 
                        such sections, as applicable).
                            ``(ii) Documents for participants, 
                        beneficiaries, contracting providers, or 
                        authorized representatives.--The guidance 
                        issued under this paragraph shall include 
                        clarifying information and illustrative 
                        examples of methods that group health plans and 
                        health insurance issuers offering group or 
                        individual health insurance coverage may use to 
                        provide any participant, beneficiary, 
                        contracting provider, or authorized 
                        representative, as applicable, with documents 
                        containing information that the health plans or 
                        issuers are required to disclose to 
                        participants, beneficiaries, contracting 
                        providers, or authorized representatives to 
                        ensure compliance with this section, section 
                        712 of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
                        Act of 1974, or section 9812 of the Internal 
                        Revenue Code of 1986, as applicable; any 
                        regulation issued pursuant to such respective 
                        section, or any other applicable law or 
                        regulation, including information that is 
                        comparative in nature with respect to--
                                    ``(I) nonquantitative treatment 
                                limitations for both medical and 
                                surgical benefits and mental health and 
                                substance use disorder benefits;
                                    ``(II) the processes, strategies, 
                                evidentiary standards, and other 
                                factors used to apply the limitations 
                                described in subclause (I); and
                                    ``(III) the application of the 
                                limitations described in subclause (I) 
                                to ensure that such limitations are 
                                applied in parity with respect to both 
                                medical and surgical benefits and 
                                mental health and substance use 
                                disorder benefits.
                    ``(C) Nonquantitative treatment limitations.--The 
                guidance issued under this paragraph shall include 
                clarifying information and illustrative examples of 
                methods, processes, strategies, evidentiary standards, 
                and other factors that group health plans and health 
                insurance issuers offering group or individual health 
                insurance coverage may use regarding the development 
                and application of nonquantitative treatment 
                limitations to ensure compliance with this section, 
                section 712 of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
                Act of 1974, or section 9812 of the Internal Revenue 
                Code of 1986, as applicable, (and any regulations 
                promulgated pursuant to such respective section), 
                including--
                            ``(i) examples of methods of determining 
                        appropriate types of nonquantitative treatment 
                        limitations with respect to both medical and 
                        surgical benefits and mental health and 
                        substance use disorder benefits, including 
                        nonquantitative treatment limitations 
                        pertaining to--
                                    ``(I) medical management standards 
                                based on medical necessity or 
                                appropriateness, or whether a treatment 
                                is experimental or investigative;
                                    ``(II) limitations with respect to 
                                prescription drug formulary design; and
                                    ``(III) use of fail-first or step 
                                therapy protocols;
                            ``(ii) examples of methods of determining--
                                    ``(I) network admission standards 
                                (such as credentialing); and
                                    ``(II) factors used in provider 
                                reimbursement methodologies (such as 
                                service type, geographic market, demand 
                                for services, and provider supply, 
                                practice size, training, experience, 
                                and licensure) as such factors apply to 
                                network adequacy;
                            ``(iii) examples of sources of information 
                        that may serve as evidentiary standards for the 
                        purposes of making determinations regarding the 
                        development and application of nonquantitative 
                        treatment limitations;
                            ``(iv) examples of specific factors, and 
                        the evidentiary standards used to evaluate such 
                        factors, used by such plans or issuers in 
                        performing a nonquantitative treatment 
                        limitation analysis;
                            ``(v) examples of how specific evidentiary 
                        standards may be used to determine whether 
                        treatments are considered experimental or 
                        investigative;
                            ``(vi) examples of how specific evidentiary 
                        standards may be applied to each service 
                        category or classification of benefits;
                            ``(vii) examples of methods of reaching 
                        appropriate coverage determinations for new 
                        mental health or substance use disorder 
                        treatments, such as evidence-based early 
                        intervention programs for individuals with a 
                        serious mental illness and types of medical 
                        management techniques;
                            ``(viii) examples of methods of reaching 
                        appropriate coverage determinations for which 
                        there is an indirect relationship between the 
                        covered mental health or substance use disorder 
                        benefit and a traditional covered medical and 
                        surgical benefit, such as residential treatment 
                        or hospitalizations involving voluntary or 
                        involuntary commitment; and
                            ``(ix) additional illustrative examples of 
                        methods, processes, strategies, evidentiary 
                        standards, and other factors for which the 
                        Secretary determines that additional guidance 
                        is necessary to improve compliance with this 
                        section, section 712 of the Employee Retirement 
                        Income Security Act of 1974, or section 9812 of 
                        the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as 
                        applicable.
                    ``(D) Public comment.--Prior to issuing any final 
                guidance under this paragraph, the Secretary shall 
                provide a public comment period of not less than 60 
                days during which any member of the public may provide 
                comments on a draft of the guidance.''.
    (c) Availability of Plan Information.--
            (1) PHSA amendment.--Paragraph (4) of section 2726(a) of 
        the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-26(a)) is 
        amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Availability of plan information.--The criteria for 
        medical necessity determinations made under the plan or health 
        insurance coverage with respect to mental health or substance 
        use disorder benefits or medical or surgical benefits, the 
        reason for denial of any such benefits, and any other 
        information appropriate to demonstrate compliance under this 
        section (including any such medical and surgical information) 
        shall be made available by the plan administrator (or the 
        health insurance issuer offering such coverage) in accordance 
        with applicable regulations to the current or potential 
        participant, beneficiary, or contracting provider involved upon 
        request. The Secretary may promulgate any such regulations, 
        including interim final regulations or temporary regulations, 
        as may be appropriate to carry out this paragraph.''.
            (2) ERISA amendment.--Paragraph (4) of section 712(a) of 
        the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 
        1185a(a)) is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Availability of plan information.--The criteria for 
        medical necessity determinations made under the plan with 
        respect to mental health or substance use disorder benefits or 
        medical or surgical benefits (or the health insurance coverage 
        offered in connection with the plan with respect to such 
        benefits), the reason for denial of any such benefits, and any 
        other information appropriate to demonstrate compliance under 
        this section (including any such medical and surgical 
        information) shall be made available by the plan administrator 
        (or the health insurance issuer offering such coverage) in 
        accordance with applicable regulations to the current or 
        potential participant, beneficiary, or contracting provider 
        involved upon request. The Secretary may promulgate any such 
        regulations, including interim final regulations or temporary 
        regulations, as may be appropriate to carry out this 
        paragraph.''.
            (3) IRC amendment.--Paragraph (4) of section 9812(a) of the 
        Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows:
            ``(4) Availability of plan information.--The criteria for 
        medical necessity determinations made under the plan with 
        respect to mental health or substance use disorder benefits or 
        medical or surgical benefits, the reason for denial of any such 
        benefits, and any other information appropriate to demonstrate 
        compliance under this section (including any such medical and 
        surgical information) shall be made available by the plan 
        administrator in accordance with applicable regulations to the 
        current or potential participant, beneficiary, or contracting 
        provider involved upon request. The Secretary may promulgate 
        any such regulations, including interim final regulations or 
        temporary regulations, as may be appropriate to carry out this 
        paragraph.''.
    (d) Improving Compliance.--
            (1) In general.--In the case that the Secretary of Health 
        and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, or the Secretary of 
        the Treasury determines that a group health plan or health 
        insurance issuer offering group or individual health insurance 
        coverage has violated, at least five times, section 2726 of the 
        Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-26), section 712 of 
        the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 
        1185a), or section 9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, 
        respectively, the appropriate Secretary shall audit plan 
        documents for such health plan or issuer in the plan year 
        following the Secretary's determination in order to help 
        improve compliance with such section.
            (2) Rule of construction.--Nothing in this subsection shall 
        be construed to limit the authority, as in effect on the day 
        before the date of enactment of this Act, of the Secretary of 
        Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, or the 
        Secretary of the Treasury to audit documents of health plans or 
        health insurance issuers.

SEC. 802. ACTION PLAN FOR ENHANCED ENFORCEMENT OF MENTAL HEALTH AND 
              SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER COVERAGE.

    (a) Public Meeting.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 6 months after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services shall convene a public meeting of stakeholders 
        described in paragraph (2) to produce an action plan for 
        improved Federal and State coordination related to the 
        enforcement of section 2726 of the Public Health Service Act 
        (42 U.S.C. 300gg-26), section 712 of the Employee Retirement 
        Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1185a), and section 9812 
        of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, and any comparable 
        provisions of State law (in this section collectively referred 
        to as ``mental health parity and addiction equity 
        requirements'').
            (2) Stakeholders.--The stakeholders described in this 
        paragraph shall include each of the following:
                    (A) The Federal Government, including 
                representatives from--
                            (i) the Department of Health and Human 
                        Services;
                            (ii) the Department of the Treasury;
                            (iii) the Department of Labor; and
                            (iv) the Department of Justice.
                    (B) State governments, including--
                            (i) State health insurance commissioners;
                            (ii) appropriate State agencies, including 
                        agencies on public health or mental health; and
                            (iii) State attorneys general or other 
                        representatives of State entities involved in 
                        the enforcement of mental health parity and 
                        addiction equity requirements.
                    (C) Representatives from key stakeholder groups, 
                including--
                            (i) the National Association of Insurance 
                        Commissioners;
                            (ii) health insurance providers;
                            (iii) providers of mental health and 
                        substance use disorder treatment;
                            (iv) employers; and
                            (v) patients or their advocates.
    (b) Action Plan.--Not later than 6 months after the conclusion of 
the public meeting under subsection (a), the Secretary of Health and 
Human Services shall finalize the action plan described in such 
subsection and make it plainly available on the Internet website of the 
Department of Health and Human Services.
    (c) Content.--The action plan under this section shall--
            (1) reflect the input of the stakeholders participating in 
        the public meeting under subsection (a);
            (2) identify specific strategic objectives regarding how 
        the various Federal and State agencies charged with enforcement 
        of mental health parity and addiction equity requirements will 
        collaborate to improve enforcement of such requirements;
            (3) provide a timeline for implementing the action plan; 
        and
            (4) provide specific examples of how such objectives may be 
        met, which may include--
                    (A) providing common educational information and 
                documents to patients about their rights under mental 
                health parity and addiction equity requirements;
                    (B) facilitating the centralized collection of, 
                monitoring of, and response to patient complaints or 
                inquiries relating to mental health parity and 
                addiction equity requirements, which may be through the 
                development and administration of a single, toll-free 
                telephone number and an Internet website portal;
                    (C) Federal and State law enforcement agencies 
                entering into memoranda of understanding to better 
                coordinate enforcement responsibilities and information 
                sharing, including whether such agencies should make 
                the results of enforcement actions related to mental 
                health parity and addiction equity requirements 
                publicly available; and
                    (D) recommendations to the Congress regarding the 
                need for additional legal authority to improve 
                enforcement of mental health parity and addiction 
                equity requirements, including the need for additional 
                legal authority to ensure that nonquantitative 
                treatment limitations are applied, and the extent and 
                frequency of the applications of such limitations, both 
                to medical and surgical benefits and to mental health 
                and substance use disorder benefits in a comparable 
                manner.

SEC. 803. REPORT ON INVESTIGATIONS REGARDING PARITY IN MENTAL HEALTH 
              AND SUBSTANCE USE DISORDER BENEFITS.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment 
of this Act, and annually thereafter for the subsequent 5 years, the 
Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, in 
collaboration with the Assistant Secretary of Labor of the Employee 
Benefits Security Administration and the Secretary of the Treasury, 
shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and 
Pensions of the Senate a report summarizing the results of all closed 
Federal investigations completed during the preceding 12-month period 
with findings of any serious violation regarding compliance with mental 
health and substance use disorder coverage requirements under section 
2726 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-26), section 712 
of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 
1185a), and section 9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
    (b) Contents.--Subject to subsection (c), a report under subsection 
(a) shall, with respect to investigations described in such subsection, 
include each of the following:
            (1) The number of closed Federal investigations conducted 
        during the covered reporting period.
            (2) Each benefit classification examined by any such 
        investigation conducted during the covered reporting period.
            (3) Each subject matter, including compliance with 
        requirements for quantitative and nonquantitative treatment 
        limitations, of any such investigation conducted during the 
        covered reporting period.
            (4) A summary of the basis of the final decision rendered 
        for each closed investigation conducted during the covered 
        reporting period that resulted in a finding of a serious 
        violation.
    (c) Limitation.--Any individually identifiable information shall be 
excluded from reports under subsection (a) consistent with protections 
under the health privacy and security rules promulgated under section 
264(c) of the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 
1996 (42 U.S.C. 1320d-2 note).

SEC. 804. GAO STUDY ON PARITY IN MENTAL HEALTH AND SUBSTANCE USE 
              DISORDER BENEFITS.

    Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Comptroller General of the United States, in consultation with the 
Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Labor, and the 
Secretary of the Treasury, shall submit to the Committee on Energy and 
Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, 
Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report detailing the 
extent to which group health plans or health insurance issuers offering 
group or individual health insurance coverage that provides both 
medical and surgical benefits and mental health or substance use 
disorder benefits, medicaid managed care organizations with a contract 
under section 1903(m) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b(m)), 
and health plans provided under the State Children's Health Insurance 
Program under title XXI of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397aa et 
seq.) comply with section 2726 of the Public Health Service Act (42 
U.S.C. 300gg-26), section 712 of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1185a), and section 9812 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including--
            (1) how nonquantitative treatment limitations, including 
        medical necessity criteria, of such plans or issuers comply 
        with such sections;
            (2) how the responsible Federal departments and agencies 
        ensure that such plans or issuers comply with such sections, 
        including an assessment of how the Secretary of Health and 
        Human Services has used its authority to conduct audits of such 
        plans to ensure compliance;
            (3) a review of how the various Federal and State agencies 
        responsible for enforcing mental health parity requirements 
        have improved enforcement of such requirements in accordance 
        with the objectives and timeline described in the action plan 
        under section 802; and
            (4) recommendations for how additional enforcement, 
        education, and coordination activities by responsible Federal 
        and State departments and agencies could better ensure 
        compliance with such sections, including recommendations 
        regarding the need for additional legal authority.

SEC. 805. INFORMATION AND AWARENESS ON EATING DISORDERS.

    (a) Information.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services (in 
this section referred to as the ``Secretary'') may--
            (1) update information, related fact sheets, and resource 
        lists related to eating disorders that are available on the 
        public Internet website of the National Women's Health 
        Information Center sponsored by the Office on Women's Health, 
        to include--
                    (A) updated findings and current research related 
                to eating disorders, as appropriate; and
                    (B) information about eating disorders, including 
                information related to males and females;
            (2) incorporate, as appropriate, and in coordination with 
        the Secretary of Education, information from publicly available 
        resources into appropriate obesity prevention programs 
        developed by the Office on Women's Health; and
            (3) make publicly available (through a public Internet 
        website or other method) information, related fact sheets and 
        resource lists, as updated under paragraph (1), and the 
        information incorporated into appropriate obesity prevention 
        programs, as updated under paragraph (2).
    (b) Awareness.--The Secretary may advance public awareness on--
            (1) the types of eating disorders;
            (2) the seriousness of eating disorders, including 
        prevalence, comorbidities, and physical and mental health 
        consequences;
            (3) methods to identify, intervene, refer for treatment, 
        and prevent behaviors that may lead to the development of 
        eating disorders;
            (4) discrimination and bullying based on body size;
            (5) the effects of media on self-esteem and body image; and
            (6) the signs and symptoms of eating disorders.

SEC. 806. EDUCATION AND TRAINING ON EATING DISORDERS.

    The Secretary of Health and Human Services may facilitate the 
identification of programs to educate and train health professionals 
and school personnel in effective strategies to--
            (1) identify individuals with eating disorders;
            (2) provide early intervention services for individuals 
        with eating disorders;
            (3) refer patients with eating disorders for appropriate 
        treatment;
            (4) prevent the development of eating disorders; or
            (5) provide appropriate treatment services for individuals 
        with eating disorders.

SEC. 807. GAO STUDY ON PREVENTING DISCRIMINATORY COVERAGE LIMITATIONS 
              FOR INDIVIDUALS WITH SERIOUS MENTAL ILLNESS AND SUBSTANCE 
              USE DISORDERS.

    Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress 
and make publicly available a report detailing Federal oversight of 
group health plans and health insurance coverage offered in the 
individual or group market (as such terms are defined in section 2791 
of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-91)), including 
Medicaid managed care plans under section 1903 of the Social Security 
Act (42 U.S.C. 1396b), to ensure compliance of such plans and coverage 
with sections 2726 of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 300gg-
26), 712 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (29 
U.S.C. 1185a), and 9812 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (in this 
section collectively referred to as the ``parity law''), including--
            (1) a description of how Federal regulations and guidance 
        consider nonquantitative treatment limitations, including 
        medical necessity criteria and application of such criteria to 
        medical, surgical, and primary care, of such plans and coverage 
        in ensuring compliance by such plans and coverage with the 
        parity law;
            (2) a description of actions that Federal departments and 
        agencies are taking to ensure that such plans and coverage 
        comply with the parity law; and
            (3) the identification of enforcement, education, and 
        coordination activities within Federal departments and 
        agencies, including educational activities directed to State 
        insurance commissioners, and a description of how such proper 
        activities can be used to ensure full compliance with the 
        parity law.

SEC. 808. CLARIFICATION OF EXISTING PARITY RULES.

    If a group health plan or a health insurance issuer offering group 
or individual health insurance coverage provides coverage for eating 
disorder benefits, including residential treatment, such group health 
plan or health insurance issuer shall provide such benefits consistent 
with the requirements of section 2726 of the Public Health Service Act 
(42 U.S.C. 300gg-26), section 712 of the Employee Retirement Income 
Security Act of 1974 (29 U.S.C. 1185a), and section 9812 of the 
Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

            Passed the House of Representatives July 6, 2016.

            Attest:

                                                 KAREN L. HAAS,

                                                                 Clerk.
